skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides category: book my memoir is out in paperback today. posted on jul 16, 2019 posted in: book it has been two years since my memoir came out, and the reality of that dream coming true has both sunk in and managed to become surreal. sometimes, i need a reminder that it all actually happened. and then someone will mention it to me, or email me to tell me that they just finished… keep reading reading all over the place for your book club? invite me. posted on jul 13, 2017 posted in: book, site news i need to tell you about one of the cooler things that ever happened to me. and i know some of you are like, “ugh, no, geraldine this whole neurotic, insufferable girl with the awesome life thing is wearing thin” and i know it is, people. it is not my fault, okay? i do… keep reading stop telling bloggers they aren’t writers posted on jul 11, 2017 posted in: book, personal essay being a writer means that you’ll never have a shortage of criticism, whether it is offered up to you in heaping scoops of vitriol from faceless masses on the internet, or you gather it yourself from your never ending well of neurotic self-doubt. hooray. add “being a woman” into the equation and your cup overfloweth.… keep reading my book is officially out in the world. posted on may 3, 2017 posted in: book, site news my book came out yesterday. it is out there floating in the world, while i sit at home in my pjs eating cake and repeating the words “i am an author” to myself over and over again. to be fair, i have been doing this weekly since i was 8, but now it carries with… keep reading what’s it like to record your own audiobook? posted on mar 6, 2017 posted in: book, nothing to do with travel my agent was the first to tell me my memoir would be available in audiobook. at the time, i couldn’t imagine that too many people would consume my book by listening to it. it’s a book! it’s supposed to be read! on pages! perhaps even paper ones. but audiobook books have steadily been making a rise,… keep reading my literary agent answers your questions about publishing posted on feb 23, 2017 posted in: book, nothing to do with travel i’ve been writing a lot about my adventures in publishing (which has been a fun, strange, occasionally frustrating experience because it is only by writing a book that you figure out how to write a book). my book will be release in just over two months, and in this final stretch i find myself thinking about… keep reading my editor answers your publishing questions posted on feb 14, 2017 posted in: book, nothing to do with travel the problem with blogging, besides the fact that it is not at all lucrative and that anonymous people regularly tell you that they hope you die because you dyed a gallon of milk pink, is that it can be a very solitary process. spending every day in front of a computer in your pjs and… keep reading how long does it take to publish a book? (and other publishing questions, answered) posted on feb 13, 2017 posted in: advice, book, nothing to do with travel though it’s been a year – almost to the day – since i sold my book, i realize i haven’t written that much about the entire experience. this omission is bizarre if you consider that it’s possibly the single most important moment in my professional career, but makes total sense if you consider that i’m super superstitious.… keep reading how to not pick an author photo for your book jacket posted on feb 1, 2017 posted in: book the thing that i did not anticipate when it came to publishing a book (which – wink, wink – is available for pre-order) is that my photo would appear somewhere on it. that seemed really strange, and also made me weirdly uncomfortable, which makes no sense. like, that’s the point when i suddenly decided to become a private… keep reading posts navigation page 1 page 2 next page about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.