skip to content skip to footer nia shanks health and fitness information that doesn't suck newsletter start here starter guide finally get results course articles all articles audio articles about shop books workout programs apparel login my profile books lift like a girl when lift like a girl was released it became the #1 best seller in exercise & fitness and was the #1 new release in general women’s health on amazon. (paid links.) click here to get the paperback on amazon. click here to get the kindle/ebook on amazon. “now, at age 48, i can say i am the strongest i have ever been in my life, and for the first time i am developing a healthy relationship with food.” -lynne “i’ve cut my workout time in half, have seen better results and my anxiety and guilt about food is falling away faster and faster.” -lacy “this is the book i have been needing & wished i had years ago.” -kmb “your book is a god send, i love your message — so many people need to hear this. life changing. i wish i was 20 years younger reading this.” -beth the 100-day reclaim are your fitness and nutrition choices something that make you feel great about yourself? do they empower you and enhance your life? or is health and fitness a constant source of frustration and something that leaves you feeling “less than”? this book is for you if: you’ve ever had your day ruined because of the number you saw on the bathroom scale. you feel like food and fitness dominates your life (and drains your sanity). you hold your happiness captive because you say, “i’ll finally be happy when …” with daily readings and lessons over the next one hundred days, this book will show you how to drop the nonsense (and frustration) and reclaim health and fitness to make it the empowering lifestyle it’s meant to be. (paid links.) click here to get the paperback on amazon. click here to get the kindle version on amazon. “it’s like she knows the negative things you say to yourself … and she has responses to all of them!” -joann “this book is so what i (and sadly thousands of others) need.” -kat footer if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. fields marked with a * are required. join the revolution get updates, insider-only information, and a free gift. if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. facebook instagram twitter youtube search this website © 2020 nia shanks · privacy policy · disclaimer newsletter you’re here for a reason contact store