jump directly to the content the sun, a news uk companyclose your sun sign in editions us edition scottish sun irish sun sun bingo dream team news corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services. follow the sun the sun the scottish sun the irish sun dream team sun bingo hols from £9.50 superdays sun savers sun gifts news corp wsj.com new york post the australian news.com.au storyful harper collins realtor.com talksport times money mentor services sign up to the sun about us editorial complaints clarifications and corrections news licensing advertising contact us commissioning terms help hub topic a-z cookie settings contact preferences top sign in uk edition us edition scottish sun irish sun sun bingo dream team search home covid-19 tv & showbiz football fabulous news sport money tech travel motors dear deidre puzzles vouchers topics a-z all football all news uk news world news brexit politics opinion health news corona cabinet boris johnson and matt hancock have coronavirus – and now chief medical officer chris whitty has symptoms too latest natasha clark brittany vonow gemma mullin lizzie parry 27 mar 2020, 11:18 updated: 27 mar 2020, 18:11 natasha clark brittany vonow gemma mullin lizzie parry invalid date, boris johnson and matt hancock have both tested positive for coronavirus today - and now chief medical officer chris whity has symptoms too. the pm, 55, was tested after experiencing mild symptoms of a cough and fever yesterday afternoon and will remain in self-isolation in his no11 flat for at least seven days. ⚠️ read our coronavirus live blog for the latest news & updates 17 boris johnson has tested positive for coronavirus, he announced today 17 england's top doctor chris whitty is also suffering from symptomscredit: pa:press association 17 boris johnson was last snapped last night clapping nhs staff at 8pm - he stayed 2m from anyone else from yesterday afternooncredit: reuters 17 matt hancock, the health secretary, also has tested positive for the virus he's believed to be the first world leader to get the virus, and found out his diagnosis late last night. and the health secretary, 41, announced just hours later that he has it too. this afternoon chief medical officer chris whitty said he has been suffering symptoms too and would self-isolate as a precaution. it's not clear if he's being tested too. the uk's coronavirus death toll rose by 181 to 759 today in the biggest 24-hour jump so far. 14,579 are currently infected in britain. the pm said in a video this morning: "i have developed minor symptoms of the coronavirus, a temperature and a persistent cough and on the advice of the chief medical officer i have taken a test. that has come out positive. "i am working from home, i am self-isolating, and that is entirely the right thing to do. "but be in no doubt that i can continue thanks to the wizardry of modern technology to communicate with all my top team to lead the national fightback against coronavirus. "i want to thank above all our nhs staff. "it was very moving last night to join the national clap, but it’s not just the nhs, it’s our police, our social care workers, teachers, everybody who works in schools, dwp staff." mr hancock added: "following medical advice, i was advised to test for #coronavirus. "i‘ve tested positive. thankfully my symptoms are mild and i’m working from home & self-isolating. "vital we follow the advice to protect our nhs & save lives." he'll be working from home for the meantime, he said. i have developed minor symptoms of the coronavirus, a temperature and a persistent cough and on the advice of the chief medical officer i have taken a test. that has come out positiveboris johnson mr hancock first developed symptoms on wednesday after addressing the nation at a press conference on tuesday alongside deputy chief medical officer, jenny davies, and national medical director at nhs england stephen powis. the pm won't be doing any of the daily press conferences while he is currently ill. michael gove told today's downing street briefing: "the fact that the prime minister and health secretary have contracted the virus is a reminder that the virus does not discriminate. "we are all at risk and that’s why it’s important we use social distancing measures." it was also revealed this afternoon: two more make-shift nhs hospitals will be set up in birmingham and manchester to help deal with the number of cases nhs workers on the frontline will start getting tested from this weekend mr gove warned that the number of cases was doubling ever three to four days - and it will take weeks to see the effect of the lockdown jenny harries, the deputy chief medical officer, said the pm was tested because he is “central” to the fight against covid-19. she said: “the pm plays a very critical role in that and that was the basis for the testing.” he will continue to lead the fight against the virus from his no11 bunker, mr gove said earlier. but boris will have to self-isolate for at least 14 days from his girlfriend and fiance, carrie symonds, 32, who is currently pregnant - and in the more "vulnerable" category. last night she posted a snap of herself and pet dog dilyn, online saying she was currently self-isolating. it's understood she left no11 a couple of days ago - and is thought to be in the couple's camberwell flat. telegraph commentator camilla tominey, a friend of carrie's, told itv's this morning: "she's in camberwell with dilyn the dog so she will not have any contact with the prime minister over the last few days". according to the royal college of obstetricians and gynaecologists (rcog), the large majority of pregnant women will experience only mild or moderate symptoms, including a cough, fever and shortness of breath. but they have advised them to increase their social distancing and stay at home as much as possible. it comes after the pm was snapped clapping to praise the nhs outside no10 just last night. a downing street spokesperson confirmed the news, saying: “after experiencing mild symptoms yesterday, the prime minister was tested for coronavirus on the personal advice of england’s chief medical officer, professor chris whitty. “the test was carried out in no 10 by nhs staff and the result of the test was positive. “in keeping with the guidance, the prime minister is self-isolating in downing street." at the moment the pm will continue to work, but it may mean that dominic raab, the foreign secretary, will have to take over duties if the pm becomes more ill. as the first secretary of state he is the second most senior person in government and technically the pm's deputy. just yesterday boris took part in a g20 call with other leaders around the world to coordinate the international response. no10 staff will have to stay 2m from the pm at all times - and will have to drop his meals outside his door. the news comes just weeks after boris said that he was continuing to shake hands with everyone, despite the risk of the virus spreading. this morning a string of politicians - including jeremy corbyn - sent their best wishes to the pm and hoped he had a speedy recovery. the labour boss said: "i wish the prime minister a speedy recovery and hope his family are safe and healthy. "coronavirus can and does affect anyone. everyone be safe. our own health depends on everybody else." 17 17 boris holds regular meetings with chief medical officer professor chris whitty (left) and with chief scientific adviser patrick vallance (right)credit: getty images - getty after experiencing symptoms compatible with covid-19 last night, in line with the guidance, i will be self-isolating at home for the next seven days. i will be continuing to advise the government on the medical response to coronavirus, supported by my deputies. — professor chris whitty (@cmo_england) march 27, 2020 17 17 carrie said she was isolating with her pet dog last night 17 the pm on a video call with other world leaders on thursday 17 the pm's last no10 press conference on wednesday where he hailed thousands of nhs volunteers who had signed up 17 the pm taking prime minister's questions in the commons on wednesdaycredit: represented by zuma press, inc. 17 matt hancock gave the daily press conference on tuesday evening - alongside chief medical officer dr jenny harries, and national medical director at nhs england stephen powis 17 boris announcing the nationwide shut down on monday eveningcredit: getty - pool 17 the pm will have to isolate from his partner carrie, who is pregnant (pictured here last year) 17 the news has sparked worry about who else he could have infected. downing street said this morning that others in contact with the pm did not need to do so unless they develop symptoms - and they were not aware of any other ministers having a test. chancellor rishi sunak, seen with the pm outside no10 last night, has shown no signs of the bug and is not isolating. coronavirus victims are thought to be contagious for between two and 12 days before symptoms start appearing. sir patrick vallance, the uk's chief scientific adviser, said: "it looks quite likely that there is some degree of asymptomatic transmission. "there’s definitely quite a lot of transmission very early in the disease when there are very mild symptoms." amid his busy schedule, boris normally sees the queen for their regular audience every week. however, the pm has not seen her majesty in person for more than two weeks. the prime minister had initially been expected to see her face-to-face on march 18 before she left for windsor. however, the queen's diary has since confirmed the audience was held over the phone. this means the last time she saw him was march 11 for their weekly chat. all their following meetings were done by telephone. just this week, the palace released a photograph of the queen, surrounded by dog statues, speaking on the phone with the pm on march 25. the 93-year-old monarch is currently at windsor with her 98-year-old husband prince philip. a buckingham palace spokesman said today: “her majesty the queen remains in good health. "the queen last saw the pm on the 11th march and is following all the appropriate advice with regards to her welfare. "we will not be commenting further." prince charles, 71, meanwhile is in self-isolation in scotland after testing positive to the bug. i wish the prime minister a speedy recovery and hope his family are safe and healthy. coronavirus can and does affect anyone. everyone be safe. our own health depends on everybody else. — jeremy corbyn (@jeremycorbyn) march 27, 2020 17 boris and carrie seen earlier this month watching the rugbycredit: alamy live news 17 pm and carrie attended an international womens' day reception on march 7credit: pa:press association most read in politics stay at home police get powers to fine brits up to £1000 for being outside homes latest save lives now boris to speak to nation at 8.30pm as uk faces fresh lockdown measures corona cases coronavirus cases in uk doubling every 3-4 days & will take weeks to change jez mad corbyn branded 'delusional' over claim coronavirus vindicated barmy policies tax slash millions of brits to get £150 off council tax bill because of coronavirus corona crop call britain needs new 'land army' to feed the nation during virus lockdown bailout self-employed: gov to pay 80% of average profits up to £2,500 a month from june house arrest boris orders uk to stay home unless they have one of 4 reasons - or be fined stay away people who cough at police or nhs staff could face a year in jail, cops warn coronavirus crisis - stay in the know don't miss the latest news and figures - and essential advice for you and your family. to receive the sun's coronavirus newsletter in your inbox every tea time, sign up here. to follow us on facebook, simply 'like' our coronavirus page. get britain's best-selling newspaper delivered to your smartphone or tablet each day - find out more. this morning dr sara kayat on pregnant carrie symonds after boris johnson tests positive for coronavirus topics coronavirus boris johnson carrie symonds comments are subject to our community guidelines, which can be viewed here. popular articles 'breaks my heart' isolated ozzy osborne heartbroken as he can't kiss daughter kelly goodbye 0 comments 'she's a fighter' linda lusardi has 'beaten coronavirus but still has a long way to go' 0 comments 'tone-deaf' piers tells seann walsh to 'shut the f*** up' as he moans about strictly fling 0 comments spot check uk coronavirus symptoms list is too short - and misses mild signs, warn docs 0 comments exclusive family torn apart coronavirus kills brit dad, 61, and daughter, 33, just 24hrs apart 0 comments 'our ray of light' ashley banjo's wife francesca gives birth to their second child 0 comments 'totally inadequate' 'measly' free school meal rations given to pupils during virus crisis 0 comments stealth bug did you have coronavirus earlier this year? the signs covid-19 may have struck 0 comments comment dan wootton let’s get angrier at china's cruel wet markets that caused coronavirus 0 comments morg-tified kirstie allsopp calls piers morgan a 'total b*****d' in furious coronavirus row 0 comments follow the sun services sign up to the sun about us editorial complaints clarifications and corrections news licensing advertising contact us commissioning terms help hub topic a-z cookie settings contact preferences ©news group newspapers limited in england no. 679215 registered office: 1 london bridge street, london, se1 9gf. "the sun", "sun", "sun online" are registered trademarks or trade names of news group newspapers limited. this service is provided on news group newspapers' limited's standard terms and conditions in accordance with our privacy & cookie policy. to inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our syndication site. view our online press pack. for other inquiries, contact us. to see all content on the sun, please use the site map. the sun website is regulated by the independent press standards organisation (ipso) our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. for further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click here.