engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget bose noise cancelling headphones 700 buy now login the buyer's guide find it, buy it and tell us how you really feel. all phones laptops gaming headphones home theater tablets more photography networking storage reviews / headphones bose noise cancelling headphones 700 reviews / headphones bose noise cancelling headphones 700 from $399+ $399 buy now share share 90 engadget score the best in its category. we highly recommend it. 90 the best in its category. we highly recommend it. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). engadget review bose is no longer at the top of the noise cancelling headphone race, but the 700 is an excellent option with powerful anc. however, sony’s wh-1000xm3 has better overall audio, and arguably better noise cancellation -- all for $100 less. the 700 isn’t the best, but it’s still really damn good. read full review pros outstanding noise cancellation better design than previous bose models touch controls are easy to use super comfy impressive voice clarity in noisy places cons treble can be harsh at times no eq adjustment in the app more expensive than some of the competition bose ar isn’t a compelling feature just yet reviews 85 average critic score critic reviews 10 90 pc mag bose noise cancelling headphones 700 review the wireless bose noise cancelling headphones 700 offer terrific audio performance, hands-free voice assistant access, and the best active noise cancellation you can buy. read full review 80 gizmodo bose is back they are the best for phone calls, and that’s a big deal. they’re a formidable competitor to the sony 1000xm3 in terms of noise canceling. they’re comfortable, attractive, and easy to use. they don’t fold though, and they’re not my favorite-sounding headphones. it’s a bummer there’s not much you can do to tune them to your own preferences. read full review see all critic reviews 90 average user score user reviews 2 90 navdeep 09.12.19 best for noise cancellation. read full review 90 adam 08.16.19 i barely used this, so far so good. but lastly, i got this headphone, just incredible read full review see all reviews specs key specs type over-ear channels stereo noise isolation yes active noise cancellation yes connections usb, wireless, other type channels noise isolation active noise cancellation connections over-ear stereo yes yes usb, wireless, other write a review tip: log in before writing a review step 1: rate and comment on specific criteria sound quality 0 design and form factor 0 comfort 0 noise isolation 0 durability 0 step 2: write a detailed review tips: make sure to include your initial thoughts on using the product, any observations and potentially any issues you might have run into while using it. step 3: finalize your product rating and submit your review we've calculated your overall product rating based on the average of your criteria ratings above. you can adjust this rating by dragging this slider. overall rating 0 login and submit! 90 engadget score the best in its category. we highly recommend it. 90 the best in its category. we highly recommend it. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). see all scores scores engadget 90 critic 10 reviews 85 users 2 reviews 90 user reviews 90 navdeep best for noise cancellation. 90 adam i barely used this, so far so good. but lastly, i got this headphone, just incredible...read more write a review about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr