login cheezburger search latest posts bossy channels cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation bossy login submit bossy favorite bossy debunks the canadian stereotype share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via bossy by cheezburger repost - vote - recaption stereotypes are everywhere. we all hear them, see them, act them... but are they even true? lets look at the canadian stereotypes for example. bossy's own renny, was born and raised in "o canada" and she's basically heard of all the canadian "stereotypes" out there. and well, she's here to set the record straight on what's true and what's definitely not. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- need more bossy? check out bossy by cheezburger here: https://cheezcake.cheezburger.com/bossy comments funny videos bossy funny women woman empowerment lol funny video women bossy favorite bossy talks about their worst dates share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via cheezburger repost - vote - recaption ever been on such a horrible date that all you can really do is run for the hills and laugh it off? we've all been there. sometimes dates just don't go as smoothly as we would hope and in the end... there just very very funny stories to tell. comments fails fail relationships lol funny women dating bossy favorite bossy talks about heartbreaks share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via bossy repost - vote - recaption ep3: bossy talks about "heartbreaks" let us just make one thing clear, we've all experienced heartbreak and all experiences of it are different. there is the heartbreak of losing a loved one, losing a pet, leaving a place, sometimes there is the heartbreak of disappointment. and let us not forget the heartbreak of a breakup. you go through the stages to get over your achy heart and in time it heals. but no one forgets their first. the "whys" that still haunt us. the feelings we experienced without even knowing what we were experiencing and our favorite, how we got through it. --------------------------- even years later, the girls of bossy still remember exactly what happened, how it happened and how their hearts broke. but more importantly, they also remember and have epic tips on how to get through it. so they told us and we just have to say... we can totally relate! -------------------------- bossy by cheezburger comments cheezburger bossy funny women relationships lol breakup heartbreaking tearjerker funny women dating cheezcake favorite ep2: bossy talks about marriage share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via cheezburger repost - vote - recaption ep2: "lets talk about marriage" formally; marriage is recognized as a union of two people as partners in a personal relationship. they sign a legal document in which they are now bonded legally to be together...forever. but some might see this differently. some might even say that it is a legally binding contract to keep the other from trying to escape... but what's the real deal with marriage and how do women actually feel about it? how did it because a thing that it's every women's and little girls' dream to get married and that marriage is basically the goal? we asked the girls from bossy what their take is on the whole concept of marriage. ---------- missed the first episode of bossy? you can check it out here! ---------- bossy, the definition in urban dictionary: "a girl who is the alpha-female or the queen bee. she is gettin paid, stayin fly, and is the leader of her crew. respected by all, loved by some". it's basically a word used to describe the ultimate cool. so we decide to gather bossy women from all over the world and ask them the same questions, 'cause who better than to tell it like it is without the bllsht than the bosses themselves? these are different women, from different cultures, all answering the same question. comments women empowerment marriage woman sad but true relationships lol funny women cheezcake favorite introducing 'bossy' - original web series by cheezburger share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via cheezburger repost - vote - recaption bossy, the definition in urban dictionary: "a girl who is the alpha-female or the queen bee. she is gettin paid, stayin fly, and is the leader of her crew. respected by all, loved by some". it's basically a word used to describe the ultimate cool. so we decide to gather bossy women from all over the world and ask them the same questions, 'cause who better than to tell it like it is without the bllsht than the bosses themselves? ep1: "the first move" we all have either done it or thought about it. but who should be the one to actually make the first move? you? or the one you're eyeing? and if so how? the girls of bossy let us know how it's like in their country and what's their take on it. enjoy! comments cheezburger women impowerment hilarious bossy videos be the boss funny women upvoted 20 funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week 15 bad home-haircuts happening around the world 12 fifty tweets from exhausted parents trying to stay sane 9 live-streaming pasta-making classes from 84-year-old grandma in italy 9 redditor's reveal their self-improvement journeys during covid-19 lockdown hot today 1 fifty tweets from exhausted parents trying to stay sane 2 master photoshop legend james fridman is at it again 3 instagram of illogical excuses kids use for not eating their food 4 "i'll be here for you (in quarantine too)" - a friends theme song parody 5 funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter