archives highlighted teaching rss twitter micro.blog edit sidebars on the internet for reference edit posts brad delong's grasping reality a semi-daily journal. trying to grasp reality with both hands since 1999... brad delong's grasping reality archives highlighted teaching rss twitter micro.blog edit sidebars on the internet for reference edit posts coronavirus daily read list nejm group: updates on the covid-19 pandemic http://m.n.nejm.org/nl/jsp/m.jsp?c=%40kxntxckrdoq8og0jjvaxsizn4mpeciphltxotsdtu9k%3d&cid=dm89089_nejm_covid-19_newsletter&bid=173498255: 'from the new england journal of medicine, nejm journal watch, nejm catalyst, and other trusted sources... worldometer: coronavirus update (live) https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/... financial times: coronavirus tracked https://www.ft.com/coronavirus-latest... cdph: ncov2019 updates https://www.cdph.ca.gov/programs/cid/dcdc/pages/immunization/ncov2019.aspx... cdph: news releases 2020 https://www.cdph.ca.gov/programs/opa/pages/new-release-2020.aspx... josh marshall: epidemic science & health twitter list https://twitter.com/i/lists/1233998285779632128... continue reading "coronavirus daily read list" » posted on march 27, 2020 at 09:31 in #highlighted | permalink | comments (0) cases and deaths from coronavirus doubling every three days is very bad news indeed i confess i am positively unmanned by the every-three-days doubling of reported cases and deaths here in the united states. i had thought that we would see true cases doubling every seven days. and back when reported cases started doubling every three days, i was encouraged, because i thought it meant that we were catching up on testing, and so getting closer to detecting the bulk of the symptomatic cases. but now it looks like that was wrong: reported cases were doubling every three days because true cases were doubling every three days—that is what deaths tell us was happening to true cases up until three weeks ago. the lack of case curve-bending makes me think that testing is not improving. it makes me think that reported cases are doubling every three days because true cases are doubling every three days. that means that the trump administration has only 40% as much time to get its ass in gear as i thought it did. and that means the chances it will are very very low indeed: i must confess it had never occurred to me back when china shut down wuhan that we would simply not test everyone who presented with symptoms—and then backtrace their contacts. it is really looking now as though china—even with its authoritarian blindness fumbling of the intitial response (see zeynep tufekci: https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2020/02/coronavirus-and-blindness-authoritarianism/606922/ is going to be studied in the future as a positive model of public health in the 21st century, while the trump administration’s reaction—currently on track as the worst in the world in handling coronavirus <https://www.evernote.com/l/aafzpq9ajofhfr_nrtpi1qysed8wsae0y00b/image.png>—will be studied in the future as a negative example: brad delong: the trump administration’s epic covid-19 failure https://www.bradford-delong.com/2020/03/the-trump-administrations-epic-covid-19-failure-project-syndicate.html: 'as officials at the us centers for disease control and other public-health bodies surely must have recognized, asymptomatic transmission means that the standard method of quarantining symptomatic travelers when they cross national (or provincial) borders is insufficient. it also means that we have known for almost two months that we were playing a long game against the virus. with its spread more or less inevitable, the primary task was always to reduce the pace of community transmission as much as possible, so that health-care systems would not be overwhelmed before a vaccine could be developed, tested, and deployed. in the long game against a contagious virus, how to mitigate transmission is no secret. in singapore, which has largely contained the outbreak within its borders, all travelers from abroad have been required to self-quarantine for 14 days, regardless of whether they have symptoms. in japan, south korea, and other countries, testing for covid-19 has been conducted on a massive scale. these are the measures that responsible governments take. you test as many people as you can, and when you locate areas of community transmission, you lock them down. at the same time, you build a database of all those who have already developed immunity and thus may safely resume their normal routine... continue reading "cases and deaths from coronavirus doubling every three days is very bad news indeed" » posted on march 29, 2020 at 08:43 in #highlighted, #orangehairedbaboons | permalink | comments (0) neil ferguson: uk has enough intensive care units for coronavirus, expert predicts https://www.newscientist.com/article/2238578-uk-has-enough-intensive-care-units-for-coronavirus-expert-predicts/: '[neil ferguson] said the uk should have the testing capacity “within a few weeks” to copy what south korea has done and aggressively test and trace the general population. new data from the rest of europe suggests that the outbreak is running faster than expected, said ferguson. as a result, epidemiologists have revised their estimate of the reproduction number (r0) of the virus. this measure of how many other people a carrier usually infects is now believed to be just over three, he said, up from 2.5. “that adds more evidence to support the more intensive social distancing measures,” he said. his comments come as a team at the university of oxford released provisional findings of a different model that they say shows that up to half the uk population could already have been infected... it assumes that most people who contract the virus don’t show symptoms and that very few need to go to hospital. “i don’t think that’s consistent with the observed data,” ferguson told the committee... continue reading "" » posted on march 27, 2020 at 09:46 in #noted | permalink | comments (0) heather boushey: the economist as anesthetist: putting the economy under and bringing the economy back up https://twitter.com/hboushey/status/1242570985297117184: 'in response to the #coronavirus crisis, the nationwide economic shutdown has put the economy “on ice” so that it can be ramped back up after the health crisis is addressed. concerns about falling into a deep and protracted #coronavirus recession are exacerbated by historically high economic inequality, which makes the united states particularly vulnerable to economic shocks. policymakers should keep income flowing by helping small businesses pay their bills, ensuring any corporate assistance helps workers, boosting unemployment insurance, and providing #paidleave. the u.s. is one of only three industrialized countries that does not ensure every worker has access to paid time off when they are sick. we also need additional fiscal stimulus to ensure a recession does not turn into a full-scale economic depression. that means direct payments to families and more support for snap, medicaid, and the children’s health insurance program. we need to remember that the economy isn’t something that happens to us—it’s the direct result of choices that policymakers make. the only entity with the power to mobilize resources and not further exacerbate rising inequality at such a large scale is the government... continue reading "" » posted on march 27, 2020 at 09:02 in #noted | permalink | comments (0) claudia sahm, joel slemrod, and matthew shapiro have the baton on the effects of direct payments to people in cushioning the fall in aggregate demand during a recession. there are good reasons to fear that this supply shock induced recession will be different. but at the moment it is the best we got: claudia sahm: 'research on payments to people in recessions... https://twitter.com/claudia_sahm/status/1243504127407243266 here are our past papers (with joel slemrod [and matthew shapiro]): 2008 payments: http://www-personal.umich.edu/~shapiro/papers/w15421.pdf. 2008 payments vs 2009-10 making work pay tax credits: http://www-personal.umich.edu/~shapiro/papers/aejep2012.pdf. 2011-12 payroll tax cut: http://www-personal.umich.edu/~shapiro/papers/payrolltaxes_sss.pdf... continue reading "" » posted on march 27, 2020 at 08:58 in #noted | permalink | comments (0) in a good world, jim stock would already be back in the eisenhower old executive office building chairing the council of economic advisors during this crisis. he is vastly more thoughtful, more confident, and more up to speed on the issues and the trade-offs that we face, economically, during this public health crisis. however, we are not in a good world. we are in a very bad one. already, the united states his response to the coronavirus is the worst in the world. and it only looks as though the gap between us and other countries is going to grow over the next months: jim stock: coronavirus: data gaps and the policy response https://www.jimstock.org/2020/03/coronavirus-data-gaps-and-policy.html: 'social distancing and business shutdowns... [affect] the case transmission rate β.... [one] policy design question is how to achieve that case transmission rate while minimizing economic cost. a second... is the optimal... β, trading off... economic cost[s]... against... deaths.... [we] lack... data.... tests have been rationed.... the fraction of tests that are positive do not estimate the population rate of infection.... the covid-19 asymptomatic rate... estimates in the epidemiological literature range from 0.18 to 0.86. however, the asymptomatic rate could be estimated accurately and quickly by testing a random sample of the overall population. the policy response and its economic consequences hinge critically on the asymptomatic rate. as we illustrate using two policy paths for β, without better knowledge of this knowable parameter, policymakers could make needlessly conservative decisions which would have vast economic costs... continue reading " " » posted on march 27, 2020 at 07:32 in #noted | permalink | comments (2) let me endorse this as a thoughtful assessment of how important it is to keep the economy from sending anybody a "you are bankrupt: shut down" signal by the economy in this public health crisis. instead, every business and every workers should be being sent a "you are, at most, on pause: be ready to resume" signal by the economy. how to make sure that signal is sent requires fiscal stimulus an order of magnitude greater than the $2.2 trillion currently in the headlines. for one thing, it requires tolerance of inflation, as prices of medical equipment and necessities rise and as social distancing temporarily reduces productivity elsewhere in the economy: peter r. orszag: social distancing makes sense only with huge fiscal stimulus https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2020-03-22/social-distancing-makes-sense-only-with-huge-fiscal-stimulus: 'mandating social distancing in response to the covid-19 crisis requires socializing the economic costs of doing so. we as a society can’t reasonably require social distancing, with the massive economic consequences it entails, and believe that most of those costs should be privately borne. we therefore need to either abandon social distancing (thereby overwhelming health systems and sparking untold deaths) or enact much larger stimulus measures. and by much larger i mean far larger even than the eye-popping figures the trump administration is now pursuing.... the disruption is so vast... that government failure to act will result in an avalanche of bankruptcies and extended unemployment that will, in turn, inflict lasting damage on businesses and families, even after the health crisis passes... not being able to put humpty dumpty back together again. it is why government intervention cannot be limited to the sectors most directly affected (airlines and hotels, for example) and must take new forms beyond the conventional tools (such as rebates to individuals). while many existing stimulus measures are necessary and helpful... they are terribly inadequate... the dilemmas we face will continue until an effective anti-viral or therapeutic can be found that allows us to contract the disease without suffering significant harm. in the meantime, even if current efforts are successful at attenuating the spread of the disease over the next several weeks, social distancing will need to be re-imposed in cycles. given the plausible timetable for developing a vaccine, and unless we get very lucky and the virus itself mutates in a less harmful direction, these cycles could continue for well more than a year.... this is a fiscal risk worth taking.... [to] those who argue that the cost is too high or that a stunning increase in the deficit is too risky [i say:] if you don’t like the fiscal cost but you favor social distancing, what you’re really saying is that you are willing to accept millions of bankruptcies and the ripping apart of corporate and social fabrics across the world.... the economic harm comes mostly from the sudden stop... the demographics of those suffering from coronavirus and those suffering from the economic virus are quite different.... emmanuel saez and gabriel zucman have proposed that governments simply pay companies to cushion the shock: “in the context of this pandemic, we need a new form of social insurance, one that directly targets and works through businesses,” they wrote earlier this month. “the most direct way to provide this insurance is to have the government act as a buyer of last resort. if the government fully replaces the demand that evaporates, each business can keep paying its workers and maintain its capital stock, as if it was operating under business as usual.” and andrew ross sorkin of the new york times has suggested a universal loan program, with a zero interest rate and extended repayment terms. one thing is clear about stimulus measures in this crisis: bigger is better... continue reading "" » posted on march 27, 2020 at 07:24 in #noted | permalink | comments (1) this is by a substantial margin the best thing i have seen on the coronavirus, and where we are with respect to it. my confidence that the trump administration and the republican senatorial majority are up to the task of organizing this is too low to measure: richard danzig and marc lipsitch: prepare now for the long war against coronavirus https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2020-03-20/prepare-now-for-the-long-war-against-coronavirus: 'it’s essential to clearly envision the problems we’ll face over the next 12 to 18 months and mobilize to respond right away. here are five priority problems and the actions we should take now.... minimizing errors and uncertainties about and maximizing confidence in our judgments about cure will soon become as important as present efforts at disease detection. people who recover from covid-19 probably can work in hospitals, emergency response settings and ordinary jobs without fear of infection.... we need to identify these people and assess how soon after their recovery they become unlikely to infect others.... assuring that someone has immunity against this new virus requires tests that are distinct from the pcr tests of nose and throat swabs now being used to identify infections. we need to develop and distribute antibody tests.... problem: if current efforts at social distancing succeed in spacing out infections, we face many months of demand for treatment.... it’s essential to reduce demand for hospitalization by establishing methods to support lengthy treatment at home... telemedicine, house calls by nurse practitioners, on-line instruction for home care-givers, and support for safe travel... the production of enormous quantities of ventilators, personal protective equipment for health care workers and other medical supplies, and to ramp up our capacity for viral testing.... pervasive illness affecting most of the u.s. population over the course of a year will threaten not just health care systems but other critical infrastructure as well.... people responsible for food production and delivery, power distribution, telecommunication, drinking water, transportation, cyber services and police need to ramp up efforts to protect and maintain these systems, and to detect and report any fragilities and failures. the defense department should be engaged to backstop these systems.... it is essential to ensure that the u.s. can hold a national election in november safely, securely and democratically, even if contagion persists and social distancing is still necessary.... this problem might be best addressed by enlisting a private, non-partisan entity (for example, a major foundation) to offer expert advice to congress and to state and federal officials. with a sense of urgency and more than half a year to plan, voting by mail or via the internet—or other alternatives—could be made to work everywhere.... a long school shutdown and widespread illness will mean missed education, the loss of school nutrition for needy kids, difficulties for teachers separated from their workplace, and psychological effects.... the 50 states can address these issues individually, or they can, more effectively, band together to devise high-quality approaches... we can win... by treating it as both an emergency and a long-term challenge. we are rich, ingenious and resolute enough to prevail. but this virus has already shown we cannot wait until the moment of need to get organized... continue reading "" » posted on march 27, 2020 at 07:17 in #noted | permalink | comments (2) what more can i say, other than that jonathan wagner is right?: jonathan wagner https://twitter.com/jonathanjwagner/status/1242451945115320321: 'donald trump says: at 15 cases: "within a couple of days, it'll be close to zero". at 9,000 cases: "it's a war. it's a very tough situation". at 46,000 cases: we're safe. let's reopen america. are you ready to trust that kind of unstable judgment right now? i'm definitely not... continue reading "" » posted on march 27, 2020 at 07:10 in #noted | permalink | comments (0) as near as i can see, the trump administration's coronavirus strategy—if it can be said to have a strategy at all—is to dither, doing the very minimum that the public health experts drive it to do well hoping that coronavirus will, like the standard flu, meltaway as the northern hemisphere warms up in the spring. this is a very low odds existential bette to be making. if anyone has any insight into why they are making it, i would appreciate being dropped a line. here we have somebody who knows what he is talking about explaining why this is the most draw-to-an-inside-straightish draw to an inside straight: marc lipsitch: seasonality of sars-cov-2: will covid-19 go away on its own in warmer weather? https://ccdd.hsph.harvard.edu/will-covid-19-go-away-on-its-own-in-warmer-weather/: 'even seasonal infections can happen “out of season” when they are new. new viruses have a temporary but important advantage—few or no individuals in the population are immune to them. old viruses, which have been in the population for longer, operate on a thinner margin—most individuals are immune, and they have to make do with transmitting among the few who aren’t. in simple terms, viruses that have been around for a long time can make a living—spread through the population—only when the conditions are the most favorable, in this case in winter. the consequence is that new viruses—like pandemic influenza—can spread outside the normal season for their longer-established cousins. for example in 2009, the pandemic started in april-may (well outside of flu season), quieted in the summer (perhaps because of the importance of children in transmission of flu), and then rebounded in september-october, before the start of normal flu season. seasonality does not constrain pandemic viruses the way it does old ones. this pattern is common for flu pandemics. for the novel coronavirus sars-cov-2, we have reason to expect that like other betacoronaviruses, it may transmit somewhat more efficiently in winter than summer, though we don’t know the mechanism(s) responsible. the size of the change is expected to be modest, and not enough to stop transmission on its own. based on the analogy of pandemic flu, we expect that sars-cov-2, as a virus new to humans, will face less immunity and thus transmit more readily even outside of the winter season. changing seasons and school vacation may help, but are unlikely to stop transmission. urgent for effective policy is to determine if children are important transmitters, in which case school closures may help slow transmission, or not, in which case resources would be wasted in such closures. previously it was thought children were not easily infected with sars-cov-2. recent evidence from shenzhen suggests that children may be infected and shed detectable virus at about the same rate as adults—so now the only question is whether they transmit as readily. it seems likely the answer is yes, but no data as of this writing to my knowledge... continue reading "" » posted on march 27, 2020 at 07:08 in #noted | permalink | comments (1) not to dunk on atheists—they are as moral as the next (wo)man, and much less likely to do evil things in a belief that some deity commands them. but if one lacks charity and empathy, fear of the lord might substitute. that, at least, has been the argument for religion as a cement of social order down the ages. so now i have to ask: are all right-wing politicians and writers (save mitt romney) confirmed atheists? certain that this is all here is, so you have to grab all the goodies you can with both hands right now? is that any way to live?: kevin drum: trump says jump; wingers ask how high https://www.motherjones.com/kevin-drum/2020/03/trump-says-jump-wingers-ask-how-high/: 'modern conservative politics is remarkable. two days ago it felt like everyone was totally on board with school closings and quarantines and social distancing. it was the new reality. then donald trump announced that he didn’t really believe the experts after all and wanted to re-open the economy. within 24 hours i swear that practically every conservative in the country was suddenly in agreement—or seriously considering it at the very least. all trump had to do was open his mouth to produce a right-wing u-turn so violent you could almost hear the necks snapping. how has trump done this?... continue reading "" » posted on march 27, 2020 at 07:02 in #noted | permalink | comments (10) the first important question about life in a time of pandemic is: where do you get your information to keep from being overwhelmed and misinformed? misinformation can and does come from almost everywhere. when deborah brix in the white house briefing room says that right now there is no ventilator shortage, many of the reporters in front of her and the watchers on the tv think: “and we can easily produce enough ventilators and distribute them in a timely fashion that there will not be”. that second is an unwarranted inference—something that her political masters want the audience to believe, but that she almost surely does not believe. we put to one side the question: how does she expect to live with herself? the question for us is: how do we parse and understand the flow? here rad geek has some very useful advice: rad geek: the infovore’s dilemma https://radgeek.com/gt/2020/03/23/the-infovores-dilemma/: 'in circumstances that lead to a high risk of groupthink and overreach, it’s a reason to explicitly employ evidential markers when reporting claims; it’s a reason to cite and link to specific sources for specific claims rather than simply repeating them or presenting them as what experts are saying, and it’s a reason for readers to spend some time following links and footnotes where they have been made available, or to significantly discount stories that don’t bother to provide them.... in a high info-garbage environment, it is often worthwhile to deliberately limit, compartmentalize or substitute the consumption of certain kinds of low-quality or risky information. in particular, to restrict your intake of information where the persuasive power of the presentation is especially likely to outrun its real evidential import.... you are almost certainly better off reading the abstract and a paragraph or two of one scientific paper than you are reading through an explainer article attempting to gloss the conclusion of that paper while weaving it together narratively with interviews from two or three other pronouncements by experts in the field. commentary is prone to be less valuable than reporting, and reporting less valuable than sources or data.... the sources to be most selective about will often be the ones that seem the most appealing from the standpoint of your own social and ideological starting-points. consume thoughtful discussion and information, not too much, mostly data... continue reading "" » posted on march 27, 2020 at 06:59 in #noted | permalink | comments (3) larry kudlow: 100% grifter, 100% of the time shiv ramdas https://twitter.com/nameshiv/status/1243210532099743744: 'reminder that this was the official us govt position 30 days ago... continue reading "larry kudlow: 100% grifter, 100% of the time" » posted on march 26, 2020 at 16:45 in #orangehairedbaboons | permalink | comments (1) the trump administration’s epic covid-19 failure: project syndicate project syndicate: the trump administration’s epic covid-19 failure https://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/trump-covid19-testing-failure-by-j-bradford-delong-2020-03: 'whereas many other countries afflicted by the covid-19 pandemic have pursued mass testing, quarantines, and other measures to reduce community transmission, the trump administration has simply dithered. although america could still shut down for a month to overcome the crisis, the sad truth is that it won't. berkeley—even to us president donald trump’s most ardent critics, his administration’s disastrous response to the covid-19 pandemic has come as a surprise. who would have guessed that trump and his cronies would be so incompetent that merely testing for the disease would become a major bottleneck? continue reading "the trump administration’s epic covid-19 failure: project syndicate" » posted on march 26, 2020 at 13:46 in #highlighted, #orangehairedbaboons | permalink | comments (4) note to self: the u.s. has now overtaken italy in officially-recorded coronavirus cases. that is all. we are now #2... continue reading "" » posted on march 26, 2020 at 09:59 in #noted | permalink | comments (6) dealing with coronavirus: the hunker down and the jubilee the problem of dealing with the economic policy consequences of the current coronavirus public health emergency is best analyzed in two pieces: the jubilee, and the hunker down. bringing the jubilee what is the jubilee? it happens after we have managed to get the virus under control, so that normal public health measures of (1) testing a random panel sample periodically to understand where we are, (2) testing the symptomatic, (3) tracing and testing their contacts, and (4) hospitalizing patients with serious illnesses can manage the situation as best as it can be managed. note: i say “managed” rather than eliminated. the extent of asymptomatic transmission means that this disease will not be eliminated. it will become endemic. the task is to delay until our virologists can work their miracles. the task is to delay so that the medical care system is not overwhelmed so that we can keep mortality from the disease at 1% rather than 5% or more. once the virus is under control—by june 1, say—we will want every job that existed on february 1 and every business that was running on february 1 to resume. we will want no business to have received a “bankruptcy shut down“ from the market system. we will want no worker to have a received a “you are not wanted“ signal from the market economy. there is a side constraint on the jubilee: whatever policies we adopt need to be crafted to minimize unjust enrichment. perhaps the second biggest economic policy mistake committed by the obama administration was that its policies to deal with the great recession were both inadequate out of the fear of being perceived to contribute to unjust enrichment, and yet somehow also managed to generate a huge amount of unjust enrichment for the financial sector. hunkering down then there is the question of how to manage the hunker down. in the hunker down, social distancing needs to reach a level that reduces the caseload to what the medical system can currently handle, but should not be pushed far beyond that point. beyond that point, the benefits of generating a situation in which our icus and emergency rooms have excess capacity are low and the costs are high. in the hunker down, as many people as possible need to be given financial incentives to move into new productive occupations that provide useful goods and services without disrupting social distance. and in the hunker down, everyone needs to receive the income flow they need to pay their bills. managing the hunker down and bringing the jubilee are two separate problems that need to be designed and implemented separately. we need to think about both. we need to keep worries about bringing the jubilee from damaging our ability to undertake the hunker down. we need to keep inplementing the hunker down from impairing our power to bring the jubilee. continue reading "dealing with coronavirus: the hunker down and the jubilee" » posted on march 26, 2020 at 09:49 in #economics, #highlighted, #macro, #politicaleconomy | permalink | comments (18) it looks as though very evil people named kudlow, laffer, and moore have been telling a very stupid president very misleading things the odds are that some very evil people—i am looking at you, steve moore; i am looking at you, larry kudlow; i am looking at you, art laffer—have been telling a very stupid president very misleading things: donald trump https://twitter.com/aaronblake/status/1242941041143156736: "[some states] have virtually no problem or a very small problem..." "we don't have to test an entire state in the middle west, or wherever they may be..." "a lot of those states could go back right now, and they probably will..." the only states whose populations are less than 50% urban are maine, vermont, west virginia, and mississippi. for every case of coronavirus we see, there are likely more than 20 we do not currently see. west virginia's five largest cities—charleston 47,215, huntington 46,048, morgantown 30,955, parkersburg 29,675, wheeling 26,771—might make it the only state in which they are still free from self-sustaining community transmission. but probably not. probably there are about 200 cases in each of those cities, now spreading. and probably kentucky, west virginia, and puerto rico are the only states in which coronavirus is more than 15 days behind its pace and prevalence in new york. (texas, oklahoma, kansas, and virginia i see as most likely much closer to new york in time—they just have not been testing.) https://www.icloud.com/numbers/0bqw1nh3sk2kadzmnyoific_w continue reading "it looks as though very evil people named kudlow, laffer, and moore have been telling a very stupid president very misleading things" » posted on march 25, 2020 at 17:08 in #highlighted, #orangehairedbaboons | permalink | comments (1) louisiana, thanks to mardi gras, is now the second most intensive coronavirus hot spot in terms of reported cases (behind ny-nj) in america. what must it be like being john bel edwards right now? did he not see what was coming when he decided to not cancel mardi gras on feb 25? or was he scared?: office of governor john bel edwards https://gov.louisiana.gov/page/meet-the-governor: 'on january 11, 2016, john bel edwards was sworn in as the 56th governor of louisiana. in his first official act, gov. edwards signed an executive order to expand medicaid coverage to 430,000 of the state’s working poor. the decision to expand medicaid cut louisiana’s uninsured rate from 24 percent to just 10 percent, saving lives and improving the quality of life for citizens across the state. gov. edwards considers this the easiest big decision he’s had to make as governor... mitch smith & al.: coronavirus in the u.s.: latest map and case count https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html: 'at the start of march, with large outbreaks already reported on both coasts, officials in louisiana had not yet identified a single case of the coronavirus. but in the days since, the state has been pummeled. by tuesday morning, 1,793 louisianans had been infected and at least 65 had died. "our trajectory is basically the same as what they had in italy,” gov. john bel edwards said last week as he restricted public gatherings and urged people to stay inside... continue reading "" » posted on march 25, 2020 at 15:04 in #noted | permalink | comments (3) comment of the day: ronald brakels: on first things and r.e. reno's mammon-coronavirus death cult https://www.bradford-delong.com/2020/03/from-_first-things_-rr-reno-tells-us-that-a-culture-of-life-is-all-very-fine-when-it-comes-to-bullying-women-but-not-wh.html#comment-6a00e551f0800388340240a519c2e9200b: 'not cancelling a small dinner party is exactly the same as refusing to cower under the nazi heel and allowing the death camps to operate for a generation. therefore, by imagining having a small dinner party, i personally am as great as churchill or possibly jesus of nazareth. i haven't decided yet. if only they'd had a love child, jeston of nazhill... continue reading "" » posted on march 23, 2020 at 18:51 in #commentoftheday | permalink | comments (1) comment of the day: jec: on first things and its mammon-coronavirus death cult https://www.bradford-delong.com/2020/03/from-_first-things_-rr-reno-tells-us-that-a-culture-of-life-is-all-very-fine-when-it-comes-to-bullying-women-but-not-wh.html?cid=6a00e551f0800388340240a4f519bf200d#comment-6a00e551f0800388340240a4f519bf200d: 'i see a number of lessons to be learned here. lesson 1: don't read twitter. it never ends well. lesson 2: if your desire to be "interesting" leads you to celebrate an apocalyptic death cult, reconsider your life choices. lesson 3: if someone invites you to a literal masque of the red death, chain them to an alcove in your basement and wall them up. this is an important public health measure.... continue reading "" » posted on march 23, 2020 at 18:50 in #commentoftheday | permalink | comments (2) from first things. r.r. reno tells us that a "culture of life" is all very fine when it comes to bullying women, but not when it begins to interfere in even a minor way with the worship of the true god: mammon, in the form of a higher value of he djia. and i must say, matthew 25 does not command people to hold dinner parties during a plague so that their guests can infect one another: first things: "there is a demonic side to the sentimentalism of saving lives at any cost. https://twitter.com/firstthingsmag/status/1242174110035214338: 'r.r. reno: "satan rules a kingdom in which the ultimate power of death is announced morning, noon, and night.... this is what is happening in new york as i write. the media maintain a drumbeat of warnings. and the message is not just that you or i might end up in an overloaded emergency room gasping for air. we are more often reminded that we can communicate the virus to others and cause their deaths.... the mass shutdown of society to fight the spread of covid-19 creates a perverse, even demonic atmosphere.... we... are collectively required to cower in fear—fear that we’ll die redoubled by the fear that we’ll cause others to die. we are stripped of whatever courage we might be capable of. were i to host a small dinner party tonight, wanting to resist the paranoia and hysteria, i would be denounced.... alexander solzhenitsyn resolutely rejected the materialist principle of “survival at any price.” it strips us of our humanity. this holds true for a judgment about the fate of others as much as it does for ourselves. we must reject the specious moralism that places fear of death at the center of life. fear of death and causing death is pervasive—stoked by a materialistic view of survival at any price and unchecked by christian leaders who in all likelihood secretly accept the materialist assumptions of our age. as long as we allow fear to reign, it will cause nearly all believers to fail to do as christ commands in matthew 25. it already is..." continue reading "" » posted on march 23, 2020 at 16:25 in #noted | permalink | comments (9) the trump administration has made america #1: worst in the world at coronavirus response the trajectory of cases since the 100th reported case is now "ahead" of all other counries. the trump administration truly has made america #1! donald trump: coronavirus statements https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/03/12/trump-coronavirus-timeline/: jan. 22: “we have it totally under control.” jan. 24: “it will all work out well.” jan. 29: “we have the best experts anywhere in the world, and they are on top of it 24/7!” jan. 30: “we think we have it very well under control. we have very little problem in this country at this moment—five. and those people are all recuperating successfully." feb. 2: “well, we pretty much shut it down coming in from china." feb. 10: “i think the virus is going to be—it’s going to be fine.” feb. 14: “we have a very small number of people in the country, right now, with it. it’s like around 12. many of them are getting better. some are fully recovered already. so we’re in very good shape.” feb. 19: “i think it’s going to work out fine. i think when we get into april, in the warmer weather, that has a very negative effect on that and that type of a virus. so let’s see what happens, but i think it’s going to work out fine.” feb. 24: “the coronavirus is very much under control in the usa.… stock market starting to look very good to me!” feb. 25: “you may ask about the coronavirus, which is very well under control in our country. we have very few people with it, and the people that have it are... we’re doing a great job.” feb. 26: “because of all we’ve done, the risk to the american people remains very low.… when you have 15 people, and the 15 within a couple of days is going to be down to close to zero. that’s a pretty good job we’ve done." feb. 26: "we’re ready for it. it is what it is. we’re ready for it. we’re really prepared." feb. 27: “only a very small number in u.s., and china numbers look to be going down. all countries working well together!” feb. 28: “i think it’s really going well. we did something very fortunate: we closed up to certain areas of the world very, very early—far earlier than we were supposed to. i took a lot of heat for doing it. it turned out to be the right move, and we only have 15 people and they are getting better, and hopefully they’re all better. there’s one who is quite sick, but maybe he’s gonna be fine." feb. 28: “it’s going to disappear. one day, it’s like a miracle, it will disappear.” feb. 29: “we’re the number-one travel destination anywhere in the world, yet we have far fewer cases of the disease than even countries with much less travel or a much smaller population.” march 4: “some people will have this at a very light level and won’t even go to a doctor or hospital, and they’ll get better. there are many people like that.” march 5: “with approximately 100,000 coronavirus cases worldwide, and 3,280 deaths, the united states, because of quick action on closing our borders, has, as of now, only 129 cases (40 americans brought in) and 11 deaths.” march 6: “calm. you have to be calm. it’ll go away.” march 7: “it came out of china, and we heard about it. and made a good move: we closed it down; we stopped it. otherwise—the head of cdc said last night that you would have thousands of more problems if we didn’t shut it down very early. that was a very early shutdown, which is something we got right." march 9: “the fake news media and their partner, the democrat party, is doing everything within its semi-considerable power (it used to be greater!) to inflame the coronavirus situation, far beyond what the facts would warrant." march 9: “so last year 37,000 americans died from the common flu. it averages between 27,000 and 70,000 per year. nothing is shut down, life & the economy go on. at this moment there are 546 confirmed cases of coronavirus, with 22 deaths. think about that!” march 10: “as you know, it’s about 600 cases, it’s about 26 deaths, within our country. and had we not acted quickly, that number would have been substantially more.” march 10: “we’re prepared, and we’re doing a great job with it. and it will go away. just stay calm. it will go away.” march 11: “i think we’re going to get through it very well.” march 12: “the united states, because of what i did and what the administration did with china, we have 32 deaths at this point… when you look at the kind of numbers that you’re seeing coming out of other countries, it’s pretty amazing when you think of it.” march 13: “[fda] will bring, additionally, 1.4 million tests on board next week and 5 million within a month. i doubt we’ll need anywhere near that.” march 14: “we’re using the full power of the federal government to defeat the virus, and that’s what we’ve been doing.” march 15: “this is a very contagious virus. it’s incredible. but it’s something that we have tremendous control over”... continue reading "the trump administration has made america #1: worst in the world at coronavirus response" » posted on march 23, 2020 at 15:48 in #orangehairedbaboons | permalink | comments (22) *note to self: reported coronavirus cases per million (2020-03-22 12:00:00 pdt): top 20 states; ny: 1200 wa: 236 nj: 215 la: 182 dc: 145 mi: 89 co: 82 ma: 77 ri: 75 ms: 69 me: 68 ct: 62 nv: 61 il: 59 tn: 55 wi: 55 ga: 48 ut: 43 fl: 40 ca: 40 #coronavirus #notetoself #publichealth #2020-03-22
 posted on march 22, 2020 at 12:59 in #notetoself | permalink | comments (8) comment of the day: the trump administration has made america #1: worst in the world at coronavirus response: ronald brakels https://www.bradford-delong.com/2020/03/the-trump-administration-has-made-america-1-worst-in-the-world-at-coronavirus-response.html#comment-6a00e551f080038834025d9b3f29b6200c: 'australia's coronavirus fiscal stimulus is 9.7% of gdp. i think this is the largest peacetime fiscal stimulus by a developed nation. hopefully, now they are taking the economic effects seriously, the australian federal government will start taking the disease seriously. at least western australia and south australia have islanded themselves, while tasmania actually is an island. the other three states though... well, you can walk between them being eaten by a shark, a dingo, or desolation... continue reading "" » posted on march 22, 2020 at 12:01 in #commentoftheday | permalink | comments (4) economic growth in historical comparative perspective: assignment 8: economic growth in historical perspective econ 135: assignment 8: character of modern economic growth paper https://www.bradford-delong.com/2020/03/economic-growth-in-historical-comparative-perspective-assignment-8-economic-growth-in-historical-perspective.html: explain, in about 500 words, how the character of modern economic growth as it has been seen in the world since 1870 differs from economic growth—or not-growth—in previous eras since the invention of agriculture. upload your short essay to this webpage. submitting: a text entry box. due apr 8 at 11:59pm... continue reading "economic growth in historical comparative perspective: assignment 8: economic growth in historical perspective" » posted on march 22, 2020 at 11:38 in #berkeley, #economicgrowth, #economichistory, #teachingeconomics, #teachinggrowth, #teachinghistory | permalink | comments (0) catherine rampell has good ideas for how the press could do its proper job. her ideas meet enthusiastic approval: mistermix: this, this, this https://www.balloon-juice.com/2020/01/02/this-this-this/: 'catherine rampell has a few resolutions for the media. this one really hit home: "don’t spend more time analyzing an idea that the president proposes than he spent coming up with it. this one is hard, i know. sometimes trump says things that are just so wrong, in so many ways, that it’s difficult to resist the urge to enumerate all the details of their wrongness. but a 4 a.m. cyberbullying toilet tweet about kim jong un doesn’t necessarily mean there’s an actual, deliberate shift in diplomatic strategy. a blurted parenthetical about how he’d love to pass a middle-class tax cut, the biggest tax cut ever, doesn’t mean he seriously plans to propose such a thing. let’s not pretend a secret plan actually exists and then conjure up tea leaves for experts to read. don’t impute more seriousness or thoughtfulness than ad-libbed drivel deserves." trump’s twitter feed is like a chicken shit cannon from which the media is constantly trying to make chicken salad. it’s a goddam waste of time and the sooner they find a way to ignore most of it, the better for all of us... continue reading "" » posted on march 21, 2020 at 18:40 in #noted | permalink | comments (3) older search submit >about brad delong brad delong's short biography delong's grasping reality © j. bradford delong 1995-2019 top