home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks page 6 anne gilchrist on inner wholeness, our greatest obstacle to happiness, and the body as the seedbed of a flourishing soul “one of the hardest things to make a child understand is, that down underneath your feet, if you go far enough, you come to blue sky and stars again; that there really is no ‘down’ for the world, but only in every direction an ‘up.’” by maria popova “so few grains of happiness measured against all the dark and still the scales balance,” jane hirshfield wrote in her stunning poem “the weighing.” in how we chip from the monolithic weight of the world those osmian grains of happiness lies the promise of an answer to the abiding question: how, in this blink of existence bookended by nothingness, do we attain completeness of being? that is what anne gilchrist (february 25, 1828–november 29, 1885) — a woman walt whitman cherished as “a sort of human miracle,” whose “vision went on and on” and who “belonged to the times yet to come” — returns to again and again, each time quarrying new strata of insight, in the forgotten treasure the letters of anne gilchrist and walt whitman (free ebook | public library). radiating from the pages of her beautiful and heartbreaking love letters to whitman is an uncommonly original and penetrating mind in dialogue perhaps even more richly with itself than with its half-attentive correspondent. (whitman responded to a fraction of the letters; he could not, for the obvious reason, meet her romantic ardor — but he relished and responded to her exceptional mind.) anne gilchrist by the time gilchrist encountered whitman’s soul-salving poetry, which she helped popularize in england with her coruscating review, she had been widowed for more than a decade, raising her four children as a single mother and making a living by her pen in an era when very few women were published authors. on the second day of summer in 1869, in consonance with her contemporary and compatriot elizabeth barrett browning’s insistence on happiness as a moral obligation, gilchrist writes in a letter to william michael rossetti — christina rossetti’s brother and whitman’s british publisher, who had boldly brought leaves of grass to england when it was scorned in america and who would eventually introduce gilchrist and whitman: i used to think it was great to disregard happiness, to press on to a high goal, careless, disdainful of it. but now i see that there is nothing so great as to be capable of happiness; to pluck it out of “each moment and whatever happens”; to find that one can ride as gay and buoyant on the angry, menacing, tumultuous waves of life as on those that glide and glitter under a clear sky; that it is not defeat and wretchedness which come out of the storm of adversity, but strength and calmness. art by margaret c. cook from a rare 1913 edition of leaves of grass. (available as a print.) our greatest obstacle to happiness, gilchrist intimates, are our illusions of finitude and fragmentation — a failure of imagination that becomes a self-imposed prison of smallness, from which we are liberated only when we learn to see the interconnected wholeness of the universe: one of the hardest things to make a child understand is, that down underneath your feet, if you go far enough, you come to blue sky and stars again; that there really is no “down” for the world, but only in every direction an “up.” and that this is an all-embracing truth, including within its scope every created thing, and, with deepest significance, every part, faculty, attribute, healthful impulse, mind, and body of a man (each and all facing towards and related to the infinite on every side), is what we grown children find it hardest to realize, too. art by margaret c. cook from a rare 1913 edition of leaves of grass. (available as a print.) fifteen years before william james devised his revolutionary theory of how our bodies affect our feelings and more than a century before our modern science shed light on how the mind and the body converge in the healing of trauma, gilchrist makes a beautifully articulated, elegantly reasoned case for nondualistic wellbeing: i feel deeply persuaded that a perfectly fearless, candid, ennobling treatment of the life of the body (so inextricably intertwined with, so potent in its influence on the life of the soul) will prove of inestimable value to all earnest and aspiring natures, impatient of the folly of the long-prevalent belief that it is because of the greatness of the spirit that it has learned to despise the body, and to ignore its influences; knowing well that it is, on the contrary, just because the spirit is not great enough, not healthy and vigorous enough, to transfuse itself into the life of the body, elevating that and making it holy by its own triumphant intensity; knowing, too, how the body avenges this by dragging the soul down to the level assigned itself. whereas the spirit must lovingly embrace the body, as the roots of a tree embrace the ground, drawing thence rich nourishment, warmth, impulse. or, rather, the body is itself the root of the soul — that whereby it grows and feeds. the great tide of healthful life that carries all before it must surge through the whole man, not beat to and fro in one corner of his brain. art by margaret c. cook from a rare 1913 edition of leaves of grass. (available as a print.) like whitman, who both reverenced science and probed its limitations, gilchrist bolstered her erudition and her philosophical ideas with an intense interest in astronomy, chemistry, and biology, keeping up with the latest discoveries of the time. drawing on her respect for science, and echoing computing pioneer alan turing’s brokenhearted belief that “the body provides something for the spirit to look after and use,” she adds: science knows that matter is not, as we fancied, certain stolid atoms which the forces of nature vibrate through and push and pull about; but that the forces and the atoms are one mysterious, imperishable identity, neither conceivable without the other. she knows, as well as the poet, that destructibility is not one of nature’s words; that it is only the relationship of things — tangibility, visibility — that are transitory. she knows that body and soul are one, and proclaims it undauntedly, regardless, and rightly regardless, of inferences. complement with gilchrist’s contemporary mary shelley on nature and the meaning of happiness and whitman himself on what makes life worth living, then leap across epochs of scientific understanding to harvard’s groundbreaking 75-year study of human happiness. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: email article share article tweet pocket william godwin on the advantages of the multilingual mind how the ability to call your idea “by various names, borrowed from various languages,” empowers you to conceive that idea “in a way precise, clear and unconfused.” by maria popova language is not the content of thought but the vessel that carries thought, the vessel into which we pour the ambivalences and contradictions of our thinking in order to anneal our understanding of the world. the more spacious the vessel, the more latitude we have to clarify our own thoughts, to reach farther horizons on the waves of the mind. “we die. that may be the meaning of life,” toni morrison asserted in her spectacular nobel prize acceptance speech. “but we do language. that may be the measure of our lives.” in language we fathom ourselves and our own lives; in language we compose, to borrow leonard cohen’s lovely phrase, “the constitution of the inner country.” and yet language is inherently moored to the territory of an outer country — to the lexicon, vocabulary, and folkloric tongue of a people and a place. nothing furthers the reach of thought in language more surely than proficiency in multiple lexicons, which confers upon the bilingual or multilingual mind a lush advantage of thought. that is what the radical philosopher william godwin (march 3, 1756–april 7, 1836) explores in a passage from his altogether excellent 1797 book the enquirer: reflections on education, manners, and literature (public library) — the collection of essays he composed while his partner, the philosopher and feminism founding mother mary wollstonecraft, was pregnant with their daughter, who would one day write the visionary frankenstein. william godwin. portrait by james northcote. (national portrait gallery, london.) nearly two centuries before ursula k. le guin observed that the function of language is “to give people the words to know their own experience” and james baldwin lamented the exclusionary nature of any single language, which may not reflect the experiences of the diverse people forced to speak it, godwin makes an ardent case for how the knowledge of multiple languages liberates the mind and swells the power of the human spirit. (a crucial meta-sensitivity to language as an emissary of time and place is due in reading godwin: his use of the masculine to address universal humanity is a reflection of his era’s lexical convention — he was writing two centuries before the unsexing of he as the universal pronoun — and not of his beliefs: godwin was an ardent exponent of gender equality, who courageously bore the opprobrium such radical views earned him, who forged with wollstonecraft a a trailblazing marriage of equals, and who, in an era when girls were entirely excluded from real education and the world of ideas, raised his daughters with uncompromising focus on the life of the mind.) advocating for teaching young people multiple languages, godwin writes: he that is acquainted with only one language, will probably always remain in some degree the slave of language. from the imperfectness of his knowledge, he will feel himself at one time seduced to say the thing he did not mean, and at another time will fall into errors of this sort without being aware of it. it is impossible he should understand the full force of words. he will sometimes produce ridicule, where he intended to produce passion. he will search in vain for the hidden treasures of his native tongue. he will never be able to employ it in the most advantageous manner. he cannot be well acquainted with its strength and its weakness. he is uninformed respecting its true genius and discriminating characteristics. but the man who is competent to and exercised in the comparison of languages, has attained to his proper elevation. language is not his master, but he is the master of language. things hold their just order in his mind, ideas first, and then words. words therefore are used by him as the means of communicating or giving permanence to his sentiments; and the whole magazine of his native tongue is subjected at his feet. art by jackie morris from the lost words by robert macfarlane epochs before susan sontag insisted that words are a tool of personal agency, godwin argues that our vocabulary furnishes the building blocks of our understanding, which in turn foments our capacity for effective action in the world: words are of the utmost importance to human understanding. almost all the ideas employed by us in matters of reasoning have been acquired by words. in our most retired contemplations we think for the most part in words; and upon recollection can in most cases easily tell in what language we have been thinking. without words, uttered, or thought upon, we could not probably carry on any long train of deduction. the science of thinking therefore is little else than the science of words. he that has not been accustomed to refine upon words, and discriminate their shades of meaning, will think and reason after a very inaccurate and slovenly manner. he that is not able to call his idea by various names, borrowed from various languages, will scarcely be able to conceive his idea in a way precise, clear and unconfused. complement with the lost words — writer robert macfarlane and artist jackie morris’s courageous act of resistance against the impoverishment of our language, which is an impoverishment of our imagination — and iris murdoch on language as an instrument of truth against tyranny, then revisit godwin on how to raise a reader. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: email article share article tweet pocket the moral of flowers: an illustrated victorian encyclopedia of poetic lessons from the garden from the sensuous honeysuckle to the humble daisy, a lyrical journey to where nature meets human nature. by maria popova “in forty years of medical practice, i have found only two types of non-pharmaceutical ‘therapy’ to be vitally important for patients with chronic neurological diseases: music and gardens,” the poetic neurologist oliver sacks wrote in contemplating the healing power of gardens. more than two centuries earlier, gardening had taken on a new symphonic resonance with the psychological and physiological score of human nature when the philosopher erasmus darwin, charles darwin’s grandfather, published the botanic garden — a book-length poem using scientifically accurate verse to enchant the popular imagination with the scandalous new science of sexual reproduction in plants. botany was suddenly both sensual and poetic, seeding a new genre of literary botanica in the early nineteenth century. crowning it is a book of especial loveliness — the 1833 gem the moral of flowers (public library | public domain) by the poet, painter, and self-taught naturalist rebecca hey. passionflower. available as a print. perched partway in time and sensibility between elizabeth blackwell’s illustrated encyclopedia of medicinal plants and emily dickinson’s wildflower herbarium, this illustrated encyclopedia presents a singular fusion of hey’s original verse, poetic prose, and perfectly selected quotations from celebrated poets about each flower, coupled with beautiful engravings drawn from life by william clark, former draughtsman and engraver of the london horticultural society. honeysuckle. available as a print. the unexpected success of the book — all the rarer in an era when hardly any women were published authors — emboldened hey to learn to paint and pursue an improbable dream that became, fifteen years later, the world’s first illustrated encyclopedia of trees, featuring her own original art. almond blossom. available as a print. from fragrant favorites like the honeysuckle and jasmine, to humble beauties like the daisy and wild wallflower, to literary symbol-corsages like the violet, which emily dickinson cherished above all other flowers for its “unsuspected” splendor, and the almond blossom, on which albert camus predicated his timeless metaphor for strength through difficult times, hey’s catalogue of blooming splendor traces the etymologies of flower names, describes their habitat, and invokes shakespeare, milton, and wordsworth to explore their cultural symbolism, aiming to “pursue such a train of reflection or draw such a moral from each flower that is introduced as its appearance, habits, or properties might be supposed to suggest.” field wildflowers (frontispiece). available as a print. flowers of the field, how meet ye seem, man’s frailty to pourtray, blooming so fair in morning’s beam, passing at eve away; teach this, and oh! though brief your reign, sweet flowers, ye shall not live in vain. snow-drop and crocus. available as a print. just as poet jane hirshfield would draw, nearly two centuries later, a buoyant lesson in optimism from a tree, hey draws on flowers to contemplate questions of mortality, grit, adaptability, how to find beauty in melancholy and cheerfulness in solitude, how to live “heedless of all obstacles.” hare-bell. available as a print. rusty-leaved rhododendron. available as a print. bittersweet. available as a print. rosemary and violet. available as a print. daisy. available as a print. there is a flower, a little flower, with silver crest and golden eye, that welcomes every changing hour, and weathers every sky. it smiles upon the lap of may, to sultry august spreads its charms, lights pale october on his way, and twines december’s arms. forget-me-not. available as a print. in vain i searched the garden through, in vain the meadow gay, for some sweet flower which might to you a kindly thought convey. one spake too much of hope and bloom for those who know of man the doom ; another, queen of the parterre, thorns on her graceful stem did bear; a third, alas ! seemed all too frail for ruder breath than summer gale. i turned me thence to where beneath the hedgerow’s verdant shade, the lowliest gems of florals wreath their modest charms displayed. lured by its name, one simple flower from its meek sisterhood i bore, and bade it hasten to impart the breathings of a faithful heart, and plead — “whatever your future lot, in weal or woe — forget-me-not.” primrose. available as a print. lily of the valley. available as a print. wild wallflower. available as a print. violet. available as a print. complement with the spirit of the woods — hey’s poetic encyclopedia of trees, illustrated with her own paintings — and 18th-century artist sarah stone’s trailblazing natural history illustrations of exotic, endangered, and extinct animals, then revisit a 17th-century english gardener on what fruit trees can teach us about human nature and relationships. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: email article share article tweet pocket how to live and how to die “leave something of sweetness and substance in the mouth of the world.” by maria popova a year ago, i lost my darling friend emily levine (october 23, 1944–february 3, 2019). figuring, in which she rightly occupies the first line of the acknowledgements, was just being released. the book would not have existed without her, nor would the universe in verse — several years earlier, emily had swung open for me the doorway to the world of poetry in an incident of comical profundity emblematic of her singular and irreplaceable spirit, which i recounted with ample affection and no small dose of embarrassment about fifty minutes into the inaugural universe in verse. after her terminal diagnosis in 2016, i began taking emily on periodic getaways in nature. we called them poetry retreats — weekends of soaring, meandering conversation, inventive cooking (one instance involving a thallus of kelp collected at low tide, which we had used as a dog leash before dining on it), and delicious poetry-reading, which we recorded on a phone as tender mementos from these precious hours, not fully realizing in the moment the bittersweetness of the act. this poem, originally published in the sun in 2010, is the last poem emily read at the last poetry retreat three weeks before she returned her stardust to the universe. cold solace by anna belle kaufman when my mother died, one of her honey cakes remained in the freezer. i couldn’t bear to see it vanish, so it waited, pardoned, in its ice cave behind the metal trays for two more years. on my forty-first birthday i chipped it out, a rectangular resurrection, hefted the dead weight in my palm. before it thawed, i sawed, with serrated knife, the thinnest of slices — jewish eucharist. the amber squares with their translucent panes of walnuts tasted — even toasted — of freezer, of frost, a raisined delicacy delivered up from a deli in the underworld. i yearned to recall life, not death — the still body in her pink nightgown on the bed, how i lay in the shallow cradle of the scattered sheets after they took it away, inhaling her scent one last time. i close my eyes, savor a wafer of sacred cake on my tongue and try to taste my mother, to discern the message she baked in these loaves when she was too ill to eat them: i love you. it will end. leave something of sweetness and substance in the mouth of the world. taste a little more of the raisined delicacy of emily’s voice with her bittersweet reading of “you can’t have it all” — a buoy of a poem by barbara ras — then savor her extraordinary ted talk about learning to die. portrait by john keatley donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: email article share article tweet pocket page 6 of 1,384« first‹ prev3456789next ›last » view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.