home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks page 5 until the end of time: physicist brian greene on the poetry of existence and the wellspring of meaning in our ephemeral lives amid an impartial universe “from our lonely corner of the cosmos we have used creativity and imagination to shape words and images and structures and sounds to express our longings and frustrations, our confusions and revelations, our failures and triumphs.” by maria popova “praised be the fathomless universe, for life and joy, and for objects and knowledge curious,” walt whitman wrote as he stood discomposed and delirious before a universe filled with “forms, qualities, lives, humanity, language, thoughts, the ones known, and the ones unknown, the ones on the stars, the stars themselves, some shaped, others unshaped.” and yet the central animating force of our species, the wellspring of our joy and curiosity, the restlessness that gave us whitman and wheeler, keats and curie, is the very fathoming of this fathomless universe — an impulse itself a marvel in light of our own improbability. somehow, we went from bacteria to bach; somehow, we learned to make fire and music and mathematics. and here we are now, walking wildernesses of mossy feelings and brambled thoughts beneath an overstory of one hundred trillion synapses, coruscating with the ultimate question: what is all this? that is what physicist and mathematician brian greene explores with great elegance of thought and poetic sensibility in until the end of time: mind, matter, and our search for meaning in an evolving universe (public library). nearly two centuries after the word scientist was coined for the scottish mathematician mary somerville when her unexampled book on the connexion of the physical sciences brought together the separate disciplinary streams of scientific inquiry into a single river of knowledge, greene draws on his own field, various other sciences, and no small measure of philosophy and literature to examine what we know about the nature of reality, what we suspect about the nature of knowledge, and how these converge to shine a sidewise gleam on our own nature. with resolute scientific rigor and uncommon sensitivity to the poetic syncopations of physical reality, he takes on the questions that bellow through the bone cave atop our shoulders, the cave against whose walls plato flickered his timeless thought experiment probing the most abiding puzzle: how are we ever sure of reality? — a question that turns the mind into a rube goldberg machine of other questions: why is there something rather than nothing? how did life emerge? what is consciousness? although science is greene’s raw material in this fathoming — its histories, its theories, its triumphs, its blind spots — he emerges, as one inevitably does in contemplating these colossal questions, a testament to einstein’s conviction that “every true theorist is a kind of tamed metaphysicist.” brian greene looking back on how he first grew enchanted with what he calls “the romance of mathematics” and its seductive promise to unveil the timeless laws of nature, greene writes: creativity constrained by logic and a set of axioms dictates how ideas can be manipulated and combined to reveal unshakable truths. […] the appeal of a law of nature might be its timeless quality. but what drives us to seek the timeless, to search for qualities that may last forever? perhaps it all comes from our singular awareness that we are anything but timeless, that our lives are anything but forever. […] we emerge from laws that, as far as we can tell, are timeless, and yet we exist for the briefest moment of time. we are guided by laws that operate without concern for destination, and yet we constantly ask ourselves where we are headed. we are shaped by laws that seem not to require an underlying rationale, and yet we persistently seek meaning and purpose. art by margaret c. cook from a rare 1913 edition of walt whitman’s leaves of grass. (available as a print.) somewhere along the way of our seeking, at one life-point or another, against one wall or another, we all arrive at what david foster wallace, vanquisher of euphemism, called “the recognition that i’m going to die, and die very much alone, and the rest of the world is going to go merrily on without me.” insisting that from that recognition arises our shimmering capacity for creativity, for beauty, for meaning-making, greene endeavors to explore “the breathtaking ways in which restless and inventive minds have illuminated and responded to the fundamental transience of everything” — minds ranging from shakespeare to wallace, from sappho to einstein. a century after rachel carson observed (in a trailblazing essay that pioneered the very genre of poetic science writing in which greene himself dwells) that “against this cosmic background the lifespan of a particular plant or animal appears, not as drama complete in itself, but only as a brief interlude in a panorama of endless change,” he writes: in the fullness of time all that lives will die. for more than three billion years, as species simple and complex found their place in earth’s hierarchy, the scythe of death has cast a persistent shadow over the flowering of life. diversity spread as life crawled from the oceans, strode on land, and took flight in the skies. but wait long enough and the ledger of birth and death, with entries more numerous than stars in the galaxy, will balance with dispassionate precision. the unfolding of any given life is beyond prediction. the final fate of any given life is a foregone conclusion. despite how we may distract ourselves from that omnipresent conclusion, we live terrified of our own erasure, but that very terror impels us to more-than-exist — to live, to love, to compose poems and symphonies and equations. with an eye to “the inner life that comes hand in hand with our refined cognitive capacities,” greene writes: the mental faculties that allow us to shape and mold and innovate are the very ones that dispel the myopia that would otherwise keep us narrowly focused on the present. the ability to manipulate the environment thoughtfully provides the capacity to shift our vantage point, to hover above the timeline and contemplate what was and imagine what will be. however much we’d prefer it otherwise, to achieve “i think, therefore i am” is to run headlong into the rejoinder “i am, therefore i will die.” […] perhaps our creative forays, from the stags at lascaux to the equations of general relativity, emerge from the brain’s naturally selected but overly active ability to detect and coherently organize patterns. perhaps these and related pursuits are exquisite but adaptively superfluous by-products of a sufficiently large brain released from full-time focus on securing shelter and sustenance… what lies beyond question is that we imagine and we create and we experience works, from the pyramids to the ninth symphony to quantum mechanics, that are monuments to human ingenuity whose durability, if not whose content, point toward permanence. one of japanese designer kumagasa nagai’s vintage posters of animals and scientific phenomena one aspect of greene’s argument, however, deserves more nuanced consideration: historically, every time we humans have assumed that a certain feature or faculty is ours alone in the whole of “creation” — sentience, tools, language, consciousness — we have been wrong. greene makes the baseline assumption that we alone are aware of our own finitude. “it is only you and i and the rest of our lot,” he asserts, “that can reflect on the distant past, imagine the future, and grasp the darkness that awaits.” but what of elephants and their capacity for grief, deep and documented? what is grief if not a savaging consciousness of the fact that death severs the arrow of time, that what once was — living, beloved — will never again be, while we are left islanded in the present, shipwrecked by an absence? still, unblunted by this marginal error of exclusivity is greene’s astute insight into the elemental equivalence: we are doomed to decay, and so we cope by creating. he highlights two factors that jointly gave rise to the self-awareness seeding our terror and to our wondrous reach for transcendence: entropy and evolution. across three hundred pages, he fans out the fabric of our present understanding, deftly untangling then interweaving the science of everything from black holes to quanta to dna, tracing how matter made mind made imagination, probing the pull of eternity and storytelling and the sublime, and arriving at a final chapter lyrically titled “the nobility of being,” in which he contemplates how these processes and phenomena, described and discovered by minds honed by millennia of evolution, converge to illuminate our search for meaning: most of us deal quietly with the need to lift ourselves beyond the everyday. most of us allow civilization to shield us from the realization that we are part of a world that, when we’re gone, will hum along, barely missing a beat. we focus our energy on what we can control. we build community. we participate. we care. we laugh. we cherish. we comfort. we grieve. we love. we celebrate. we consecrate. we regret. we thrill to achievement, sometimes our own, sometimes of those we respect or idolize. through it all, we grow accustomed to looking out to the world to find something to excite or soothe, to hold our attention or whisk us to someplace new. yet the scientific journey we’ve taken suggests strongly that the universe does not exist to provide an arena for life and mind to flourish. life and mind are simply a couple of things that happen to happen. until they don’t. i used to imagine that by studying the universe, by peeling it apart figuratively and literally, we would answer enough of the how questions to catch a glimpse of the answers to the whys. but the more we learn, the more that stance seems to face in the wrong direction. art by margaret c. cook from a rare 1913 edition of walt whitman’s leaves of grass. (available as a print.) echoing w.h. auden’s stunning ode to our unrequited love for the universe, he adds: looking for the universe to hug us, its transient conscious squatters, is understandable, but that’s just not what the universe does. even so, to see our moment in context is to realize that our existence is astonishing. rerun the big bang but slightly shift this particle’s position or that field’s value, and for virtually any fiddling the new cosmic unfolding will not include you or me or the human species or planet earth or anything else we value deeply. […] we exist because our specific particulate arrangements won the battle against an astounding assortment of other arrangements all vying to be realized. by the grace of random chance, funneled through nature’s laws, we are here. in the final pages, greene both affirms and refutes borges’s refutation of time, guiding us, perishable miracles that we are, to the wellspring of meaning in an impartial universe and ending the book with the word — a curious word, improbable for a physicist — on which whitman perched his entire cosmogony: whereas most life, miraculous in its own right, is tethered to the immediate, we can step outside of time. we can think about the past, we can imagine the future. we can take in the universe, we can process it, we can explore it with mind and body, with reason and emotion. from our lonely corner of the cosmos we have used creativity and imagination to shape words and images and structures and sounds to express our longings and frustrations, our confusions and revelations, our failures and triumphs. we have used ingenuity and perseverance to touch the very limits of outer and inner space, determining fundamental laws that govern how stars shine and light travels, how time elapses and space expands — laws that allow us to peer back to the briefest moment after the universe began and then shift our gaze and contemplate its end. […] as we hurtle toward a cold and barren cosmos, we must accept that there is no grand design. particles are not endowed with purpose. there is no final answer hovering in the depths of space awaiting discovery. instead, certain special collections of particles can think and feel and reflect, and within these subjective worlds they can create purpose. and so, in our quest to fathom the human condition, the only direction to look is inward. that is the noble direction to look. it is a direction that forgoes ready-made answers and turns to the highly personal journey of constructing our own meaning. it is a direction that leads to the very heart of creative expression and the source of our most resonant narratives. science is a powerful, exquisite tool for grasping an external reality. but within that rubric, within that understanding, everything else is the human species contemplating itself, grasping what it needs to carry on, and telling a story that reverberates into the darkness, a story carved of sound and etched into silence, a story that, at its best, stirs the soul. art by margaret c. cook from a rare 1913 edition of walt whitman’s leaves of grass. (available as a print.) until the end of time, a splendid and invigorating read in its entirety, left me with the evolutionary miracle of shelley on my mind — a fragment from the last poetic work he published before he met his own untimely finitude in the entropic spectacle of a sudden storm on the italian gulf, long before humanity had fathomed entropy and evolution: talk no more of thee and me, the future and the past… earth and ocean, space, and the isles of life or light that gem the sapphire floods of interstellar air, this firmament pavilioned upon chaos… this whole of suns and worlds, and men and beasts, and flowers with all the violent and tempestuous workings by which they have been, are, or cease to be, is but a vision: all that it inherits are motes of a sick eye, bubbles and dreams; thought is its cradle and its grave, nor less the future and the past are idle shadows of thought’s eternal flight — they have no being. nought is but that it feels itself to be. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: email article share article tweet pocket what it takes to grow up, what it means to have grown a poetic antidote to despair by way of delight. by maria popova “true adulthood,” toni morrison told an orchard of human saplings in her 2004 wellesley college commencement address, “is a difficult beauty, an intensely hard won glory, which commercial forces and cultural vapidity should not be permitted to deprive you of.” four years later, in her stirring letter to the daughter she never had, maya angelou wrote: “i am convinced that most people do not grow up. we find parking spaces and honor our credit cards. we marry and dare to have children and call that growing up. i think what we do is mostly grow old. we carry accumulation of years in our bodies and on our faces, but generally our real selves, the children inside, are still innocent and shy as magnolias.” perhaps the most difficult beauty and the hardest-won glory of true adulthood is the refusal, vehement and countercultural and proud, to relinquish our inner magnolias as we grow older, declining to sacrifice them at the altar-register of a culture that continually robs us of our self-worth and tries to sell it back to us at the price of the latest product. that is what poet ross gay intimates in the one hundredth “essayette” in the book of delights (public library) — the inspired yearlong experiment in willfully expanding the everyday capacity for joy and wonder that he undertook on his forty-second birthday, the record of which became one of the most wonderful and wonder-full books of 2019. ross gay in the entry for july 27 (the eve of my own birthday, as it happens), he echoes poet may sarton’s life-earned observation that “sometimes one has simply to endure a period of depression for what it may hold of illumination,” and writes under the heading “grown”: i suspect it is simply a feature of being an adult, what i will call being grown, or a grown person, to have endured some variety of thorough emotional turmoil, to have made your way to the brink, and, if you’re lucky, to have stepped back from it — if not permanently, then for some time, or time to time. then it is, too, a kind of grownness by which i see three squares of light on my wall, the shadow of a tree trembling in two of them, and hear the train going by and feel no panic or despair, feel no sense of condemnation or doom or horrible alignment, but simply observe the signs — light and song — for what they are — light and song. and, knowing what i have felt before, and might feel again, feel a sense of relief, which is cousin to, or rather, water to, delight. complement this small fragment of the enormously delightful book of delights with alain de botton on what existential maturity really means and mary oliver’s life-affirming, light- and delight-giving poem “when i am among the trees,” then revisit bill t. jones’s stunning universe in verse performance of gay’s “poem to my child, if ever you shall be.” donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: email article share article tweet pocket marcus aurelius in love: the future stoic philosopher and roman emperor’s passionate teenage love letters to his tutor “those who love less should be helped out and lavished with more.” by maria popova “who we are and who we become depends, in part, on whom we love,” a trio of psychologists wrote in their wonderful inquiry into limbic revision and how love rewires the brain. but whom we love equally depends on who we are and who we want to become. love, like time, is as much a function of us as we are a function of it. an especially striking illustration of this equivalence, both for its intensity and its unexpectedness, comes from the adolescent love letters the future stoic philosopher and roman emperor marcus aurelius (april 26, 121–march 17, 180) to his teacher, marcus cornelius fronto, collected and translated by amy richlin two millennia later in marcus aurelius in love (public library) — a most improbable addition to history’s greatest lgbt love letters. fatherless since childhood, marcus aurelius was raised by his wealthy single mother, domitia lucilla. in 139, she hired fronto — an african immigrant to rome who described himself as “a libyan of the libyan nomads,” by then one of the era’s preeminent orators — to teach her eighteen-year-old son the art of rhetoric in preparation for his political career. across caste and rank, across twenty-some years of age difference, the two marcuses fell in love. for six years, until marcus aurelius’s socially necessitated marriage, they lived in close proximity and exchanged letters of devotion and tenderness, laced with intellectual admiration and erotic longing. although their love was edged with danger under roman law, it was not its same-sex nature that imperiled them — a grown man charged with seducing an adolescent male could be charged with adultery, the penalty for which was exile or death. but the seduction, if the term applies to their case at all, flowed the other way: marcus aurelius inundated fronto with ardor that at first received only a timorous echo. art by margaret c. cook from a rare 1913 edition of leaves of grass. (available as a print) in the preface to the collection, richlin draws on the early stoic philosophers’ forgotten axioms of sexuality to provide the deeper cultural context beneath the shallow reach of roman law: zeno (335–263 bce) and his successor, chrysippus (280–207 bce), argued that sex between human beings who have learned the proper principles of respect and true friendship is a good thing, and that the ideal society would be one in which sex was enjoyed freely, without propertarian bonds of marriage. in particular, the young person just turning toward philosophy, the prokopton, should be trained by his mentor first through a sexual relationship, which should grow into an understanding of philosophy. and so it did for marcus aurelius and his mentor-turned-paramour. it was through the portal of intellectual reverence that the young man marched his heart into love. by the end of 139, he had already become besotted with fronto. after receiving one of his tutor’s essays, he exults: should i not burn with love of you when you’ve written this to me? what should i do? i can’t stop. soon, the young man began addressing his beloved as “my fronto,” unselfconsciously calling him “my number one delight,” “my dearest and most loving,” “my biggest thing under heaven,” “breath of my life.” fronto, at first, met this ardor with considerable reserve — self-restraint, perhaps — but it was an ambivalent reserve. aware that marcus was being courted by another man — not uncommon practice in their time and place — and that this suitor already considered him his “he-sweetheart,” fronto writes: you seem likely, dear boy, to want to understand… why, pray, i who am not in love strive so eagerly to gain the same things that lovers do. so will i tell you first how that may be. by zeus, that fellow who is so very a suitor was not born with a sharper pair of eyes than i who am no lover, yet i in fact am sensible of your beauty no less than the rest; i might say, more acutely so than your suitor. […] me you approach not at your peril, nor at the cost of any harm will you keep company with me; nay, ’twill do you every good. indeed, beauties are help’d and benefitted more by those who love them not, as green shoots are help’d by the waters. for springs and rivers love not green shoots, yet in their going near and their flowing past do they make them to flower and to bloom. fronto’s conflicted push-pull message achieved none of the push. with the same stubborn optimism and imperviousness to adversity that would one day make him a great stoic and a great emperor, marcus responds: go ahead, as much as you like, threaten me, accuse me… with whole clumps of arguments, but you will never put off your suitor — i mean me. nor will i proclaim it any less that i love fronto, or will i be less in love, because you’ve proven, and with such strange and strong and elegant expressions, that those who love less should be helped out and lavished with more. two millennia later, w.h. auden would echo this sentiment in his stunning poem “the more loving one.” marcus accelerates the propulsion of his undeterred ardor: god, no, i am dying so for love of you, and i’m not scared off by this doctrine of yours, and if you’re going to be more ripe and ready for others who don’t love you, i will still love you as long as i live and breathe. […] socrates didn’t burn more with desire for phaedrus than i’ve burned during these days — did i say days? i mean months — for the sight of you. your letter fixed it so a person wouldn’t have to be dion to love you so much — if he isn’t immediately seized with love of you. and then, in a touchingly innocent closing line, he adds: my lady mother says hello. art by margaret c. cook from a rare 1913 edition of leaves of grass. (available as a print) on fronto’s birthday, marcus writes: because i love you next to my own self, i want to make a wish for myself on this day. in an imaginative romp through the intellectual and spiritual epicenters of the ancient world, he gathers a posy of blandishments and beneficences for his beloved: i go down to athens, and on bended knee i beseech and beg minerva that whatever i may ever learn about letters should above all journey from fronto’s mouth to my heart.’ now i return to rome, and i call on the gods of roads and voyages with wishes that every trip i take may be with you beside me, and that i may not be worn out so frequently by such ferocious longing. in the end i ask all the guardian gods of all the nations, and jupiter himself, who thunders over the capitol hill, to grant us that i should celebrate this day, on which you were born for me, along with you, and a happy, strong you. fronto did not remain unresponsive. “with good reason i’ve devoted myself to you,” he eventually writes, “considering your love for me, which i feel so lucky to have.” whatever the nature and magnitude of his own feelings may have been, he makes no pretense of denying that he loves being so loved: good-bye, caesar, and love me the most, as you do. i truly love to pieces every little letter of every word you. plucked from antiquity when the manuscript was discovered in 1815, and reanimated by richlin’s painstaking scholarship despite missing pages, illegible handwriting, and untranslatable sentiments, the forty-six letters collected in marcus aurelius in love radiate a testament to an elemental fact i have observed elsewhere: the human heart is an ancient beast that roars and purrs with the same passions, whatever labels we may give them. we are so anxious to classify and categorize, both nature and human nature. it is a beautiful impulse — to contain the infinite in the finite, to wrest order from the chaos, to construct a foothold so we may climb toward higher truth. it is also a limiting one, for in naming things we often come to mistake the names for the things themselves. the labels we give to the loves of which we are capable — varied and vigorously transfigured from one kind into another and back again — cannot begin to contain the complexity of feeling that can flow between two hearts and the bodies that contain them. for a further testament across time and space, savor emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert and herman melville’s passionate epistolary longing for nathaniel hawthorne, then revisit the grown marcus aurelius, his wisdom having ripened under fronto’s formative sun, on the key to living with presence and how to begin each day with unassailable serenity. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: email article share article tweet pocket the poetics of outer toughness and inner tenderness: gorgeous 19th-century engravings of cacti a succulent serenade to the elegant geometry of spiny splendor. by maria popova among the oddities of my childhood in communist bulgaria was my mother’s collection of cacti. against the chipped grey concrete of our apartment building, these improbable emissaries of another climate from another world stood as spiked sentinels of a fantastical optimism at the portal to another life. each winter, we brought the entire ensemble — dozens of them, all kinds of shapes and sizes and species — indoors; each summer, we carefully arranged them back on the tiny balcony overlooking the grey parking lot. my mother even tried her hand at grafting, without much success — but i vividly remember my astonishment at seeing the thick spiny skin open into the softest, most succulent flesh i had ever seen — softer than the inside of the cucumbers from my grandmother’s garden, moister than the vermillion interior of my thumb the time i pressed it into the knife’s blade accidentally flipped upside down. i loved their geometric elegance, the splendid shock of their rare blossoms, their quiet resilience. i felt a deep affinity with these strange, otherworldly creatures — the child who also had to learn to thrive on being underwatered, the child longing for thick-skinned spiny armor to protect the inner succulence from the intemperate climate and violent dust-storms of its local environment. (many years later, well into adulthood, i would discover and fall in love with a charming children’s book embracing this very metaphor.) mammillaria elephantidens. available as a print. imagine, then, my delight at chancing upon the forgotten 1841 gem illustrations from a descriptive iconography of cacti by the french botanist charles antoine lemaire (november 1, 1800–june 22, 1871), who spent his entire personal and professional life under the enchantment of cacti, dying in poverty and without renown despite his voluminous publications and the number of genera he named, including the famed christmas cactus. (a plant, as it happens, about a hundred million years older than christ.) his successor at the horticultural journal lemaire edited for the last seventeen years of his life lamented that “posterity will esteem m. lemaire more highly than did his contemporaries.” may we so do. echinocactus sellowianus. available as a print. his 1841 classification of cacti features a dozen beautifully colored and detailed engravings of some of the most notable species, which i have restored, digitized, and made available as prints, with proceeds benefiting the nature conservancy. echinocactus pentacanthus. available as a print. echinocactus horizontalinus. available as a print. echinocactus pectiniferus. available as a print. echinocactus astrophytum myriostigma. available as a print. echinocactus gibbosus. available as a print. echinocactus concinnus. available as a print. echinocactus coptonogonus. available as a print. echinocactus hexaedrophorus. available as a print. mammillaria erecta. available as a print. echinocactus horizontalinus. available as a print. complement with the poetic physicist alan lightman on how a rare night-blooming cactus reconciles us to the universe, then revisit poet and painter rebecca hey’s gorgeous illustrations for the world’s first encyclopedia of trees, published in lemaire’s era, and elizabeth blackwell’s trailblazing illustrated botany of medicinal plants from the previous century. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: email article share article tweet pocket page 5 of 1,384« first‹ prev2345678next ›last » view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.