home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks page 2 figuring forward in an uncertain universe consolations from the cosmic scheme. by maria popova we make things and seed them into the world, never fully knowing — often never knowing at all — whom they will reach and how they will blossom in other hearts, how their meaning will unfold in contexts we never imagined. (w.s. merwin captured this poignantly in the final lines of his gorgeous poem “berryman.”) today i offer something a little apart from the usual, or sidelong rather, amid these unusual times: a couple of days ago, i received a moving note from a woman who had read figuring and found herself revisiting the final page — it was helping her, she said, live through the terror and confusion of these uncertain times. i figured i’d share that page — which comes after 544 others, tracing centuries of human loves and losses, trials and triumphs, that gave us some of the crowning achievements of our civilization — in case it helps anyone else. meanwhile, someplace in the world, somebody is making love and another a poem. elsewhere in the universe, a star manyfold the mass of our third-rate sun is living out its final moments in a wild spin before collapsing into a black hole, its exhale bending spacetime itself into a well of nothingness that can swallow every atom that ever touched us and every datum we ever produced, every poem and statue and symphony we’ve ever known — an entropic spectacle insentient to questions of blame and mercy, devoid of why. in four billion years, our own star will follow its fate, collapsing into a white dwarf. we exist only by chance, after all. the voyager will still be sailing into the interstellar shorelessness on the wings of the “heavenly breezes” kepler had once imagined, carrying beethoven on a golden disc crafted by a symphonic civilization that long ago made love and war and mathematics on a distant blue dot. but until that day comes, nothing once created ever fully leaves us. seeds are planted and come abloom generations, centuries, civilizations later, migrating across coteries and countries and continents. meanwhile, people live and people die — in peace as war rages on, in poverty and disrepute as latent fame awaits, with much that never meets its more, in shipwrecked love. i will die. you will die. the atoms that huddled for a cosmic blink around the shadow of a self will return to the seas that made us. what will survive of us are shoreless seeds and stardust. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: email article share article tweet pocket against aloneness in the web of life: ernst haeckel, charles darwin, and the art of turning personal tragedy into a portal to transcendence an antidote to isolation by way of tiny marine creatures and a broken romantic heart. by maria popova in the waning winter of 1864, charles darwin opened a package that stopped his breath. “it is one of the most magnificent works which i have ever seen,” he exulted in his response to the sender — a young, still obscure german marine biologist by the name of ernst haeckel (february 16, 1834–august 9, 1919), who would go on to coin the word ecology a century before the great marine biologist rachel carson made it a household word in catalyzing the environmental movement. haeckel would become a naturalist, a philosopher, and the greatest champion of darwin’s evolutionary ideas; he would name and describe thousands of previously undiscovered animal species; he would coin and crown an entire kingdom, protista. stephoidea by ernst haeckel. available as a print. barely thirty, impelled by the peculiar boldness that comes from personal despair so grave that one feels one has nothing left to lose, haeckel had decided to share with the esteemed and controversial darwin the work to which he had devoted years: his studies of radiolarians — tiny single-cell marine organisms with mineral skeletons of striking geometries — in two handsome folio volumes, which haeckel had illustrated with delicate, detailed, hauntingly beautiful copper-etched drawings. acanthometra by ernst haeckel. available as a print. haeckel had come under the spell of radiolaria during his yearlong scientific studies and travels in italy at the age of twenty-five — the year darwin published on the origin of species — and had since diverted all of his scientific passion and artistic training toward these miniature masterworks of nature. “i had no idea that animals of such low organization could develope such extremely beautiful structures,” darwin gushed. he ended his rapturous reply to haeckel with these bittersweet words: i hope you are able to work hard on science & thus banish, as far as may be possible, painful remembrances. the painful remembrance: on the day of haeckel’s thirtieth birthday the previous month, anna sethe — the love of his life, whom he was finally about to marry upon receiving his first gainful academic appointment, after a four-year engagement — died suddenly, of a ruptured appendix. haeckel — who considered himself “decidedly a ‘leptoderm,’ that is, ‘thin-skinned,’” and therefore susceptible to “much more suffering and, also, more intense joy than the run of men” — was unpeeled by grief. “dark melancholy has replaced my former cheerful joy in life,” he confided in darwin, aware of the elder scientist’s own devastating experience of loss. anna sethe and ernst haeckel shortly before her death. the search for transcendence became haeckel’s survival mechanism for this fathomless personal tragedy — the transcendence he found in nature, in its breathtaking complexity and breathtaking simplicity, in its every microscopic detail magnified to reveal millennia of meticulous craftsmanship and refinement by the forces of evolution. a century and a half after they so enchanted darwin, french artist zöe almon job has set haeckel’s radiolaria drawings in motion and in thought in a lovely animated reflection on the relationship between aloneness and togetherness, on the delicate symbioses of nature and their subtler existential undertones illuminating the totality of being, in which even the most isolated existence is an emissary of our natural interconnectedness. complement with the great naturalist john muir, a contemporary of haeckel’s, on the transcendent interconnectedness of nature and poet howard nemerov’s haeckel-like geometric-existential poem about the interconnectedness of the universe, then revisit these stunning and sensual illustrations of cephalopods from the world’s first encyclopedia of deep-sea creatures, by a contemporary and compatriot of haeckel’s. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: email article share article tweet pocket “today, another universe”: jane hirshfield reads her stunning perspectival poem of consolation by calibration steadying solace for those times when we “go to sleep in one world and wake in another.” by maria popova it is our biological destiny to exist — and then not. each of us eventually returns their stardust to the universe, to be constellated into some other ephemeral emissary of spacetime. eventually, our entire species will go the way of the dinosaurs and the dodo and the romantics; eventually, our home star will live out its final moments in a wild spin before collapsing into a white dwarf, taking with it everything we have ever known — beethoven’s ode to joy and the guillotine and the perfect fibonacci sequence of the pine cone. meanwhile, in this blink of existence bookended by nothingness, we busy ourselves with survival and with searching for beauty, for truth, for assurance between the bookends. the feeling of that search is what we call meaning; the people who light our torches to help us see better, who transmit our discoveries from one consciousness to another, are what we call artists. artists are also the ones who help reconcile us to the fragility that comes with our creaturely nature and strews our search with so much suffering. suffering — biological and psychological, in private and en masse — has always accompanied our species, as it has every species. but we alone have coped by transmuting our suffering into beauty, by making symphonies and paintings and poems out of our fragility — beauty that does not justify the suffering, but does make it more bearable, does help the sufferers next to us and after us, in space and in time, suffer less, in ways the originating consciousness can never quantify in the receiving, never estimate their reach across the sweep of centuries and sufferings. “perspective” by maria popova few search-artists have served as greater agents of transmutation than jane hirshfield — a poet of optimism and of lucidity, a champion of science and an ordained buddhist, a poet who could write “so few grains of happiness / measured against all the dark / and still the scales balance,” a poet who can balance and steady us against those times when we “go to sleep in one world and wake in another” with her wondrous new collection ledger (public library) as we wake in another, searching for sense and stability, practicing the practice of life within chaos theory, i asked jane to read for us one of the most beautiful and perspectival poems from this miraculous book — a poem of consolation by way of calibration; an invitation to broaden our perspective — scientific, temporal, and humanistic — and weigh the immediate against the eternal. today, another universe by jane hirshfield the arborist has determined: senescence beetles canker quickened by drought but in any case not prunable not treatable not to be propped. and so. the branch from which the sharp-shinned hawks and their mate-cries. the trunk where the ant. the red squirrels’ eighty-foot playground. the bark cambium pine-sap cluster of needles. the japanese patterns the ink-net. the dapple on certain fish. today, for some, a universe will vanish. first noisily, then just another silence. the silence of after, once the theater has emptied. of bewilderment after the glacier, the species, the star. something else, in the scale of quickening things, will replace it, this hole of light in the light, the puzzled birds swerving around it. a quarter century later, the poem echoes hirshfield’s short, stunning poem “jasmine” from her indispensable 1997 collection the lives of the heart — one of the truest, most beautiful perspectives ever polished in language: jasmine by jane hirshfield almost the twenty-first century” — how quickly the thought will grow dated, even quaint. our hopes, our future, will pass like the hopes and futures of others. and all our anxieties and terrors, nights of sleeplessness, griefs, will appear then as they truly are — stumbling, delirious bees in the tea scent of jasmine. complement this fragment of hirshfield’s altogether re-saning ledger with other poetic masterpieces of perspective — “singularity” by marie howe, “a brave and starling truth” by maya angelou, “immortality” by lisel mueller, “cold solace” by anna belle kaufman, “the mushroom hunters” by neil gaiman, “when i am among the trees” by mary oliver, “you can’t have it all” by barbara ras, “the everlasting self” by tracy k. smith, “theories of everything” by rebecca elson — then revisit physicist brian greene on the poetry of existence and the wellspring of meaning in our ephemeral lives amid an impartial universe. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: email article share article tweet pocket the psychology of social rule: pioneering sociologist elsie clews parsons’s prophetic century-old study of power, the rise of divisiveness, and why we classify ourselves and others “classification is nine-tenths of subjection.” by maria popova years before walter lippmann explored stereotypes and the psychology of prejudice, rooted in the disquieting fact that “we do not first see, and then define, [but] define first and then see,” and decades before hannah arendt observed that “society has discovered discrimination as the great social weapon by which one may kill men without any bloodshed” before she drew on this insight to illuminate the relationship between loneliness and tyranny, the trailblazing anthropologist, sociologist, and folklorist elsie clews parsons (november 27, 1875–december 19, 1941) took up these deep-rooted, interleaved questions in her prolific and prescient body of work. elsie clews parsons a graduate of barnard college, parsons used her family wealth to fund the anthropology department at columbia university during its wartime downturn and helped found the new school — new york’s iconic haven of intellectual freedom and progressive thinking. greatly influenced by margaret fuller, parsons not only advocated for but modeled women’s equal intellectual participation in culture, seeing difference not as a point of weakness but as a fulcrum of strength. in an era when social science was still emerging from the primordial waters of metaphysics onto the firm ground of methodology and was often tainted with the pseudosciences that gave rise to eugenics, in an era when very few women were accredited field researchers and published scholars, parsons researched, wrote, and published more than a dozen deeply insightful works challenging many of the era’s damaging givens. making native american tribes the focus of her research, she saw native societies not as “primitive” cultures that had to be leveled with “civilization,” as the normative view of the era dictated, but as alternative models of social organization and cultural practices, valid in their own right and in many ways superior to those of her own society — cultures that had a great deal to teach, rather than be taught, about how to live. art by beatrice alemagna from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader. parsons was drawn to this inquiry into alternative cultural models by her early and growing skepticism about her own culture’s problematic tendencies and the trajectory on which they were setting society. she became a radical voice of dissent, writing critically, with tremendous psychosocial insight and foresight, about the early signs of what would fester into some of the most troubling, oppressive, and dangerous realities of our own time. of her many then-controversial works, the one that now stands as nothing short of prophetic is her 1916 book social rule: a study of the will to power (public library) — an unheard admonition bellowing in the gun barrel of time, presaging the exploitation of the psychological vulnerabilities of the human animal that gave rise to the various totalitarian regimes that came to plague the globe in the century since, spurred the most concentrated genocide in the history of our species, and the continues to foment the maladies of racism, sexism, and nationalism still fraying the fabric of our shared humanity. art by lia halloran for the universe in verse. available as a print. parsons begins with the elemental question of why we are so impelled to divide the world into categories and classes, and why we derive such pleasure from ranking our own above others, despite the enormous collective cost of these divisions: in any study of the relations between personality and social classification the queries arise why the social categories are alike so compulsive to the conservative-minded and so precious, why they are given such unfailing loyalty, why such unquestioning devotion? to offset the miseries they allow of or further, the tragedies they prepare, what satisfaction do they offer? do they serve only as measures against change, as safeguards to habit, — this raising barriers between those most apt to upset one another’s ways, the inevitably unlike, the unlike in sex, in age, in economic or cultural class? well before lippmann observed that “the systems of stereotypes may be the core of our personal tradition, the defenses of our position in society,” parsons locates the answer to the paradox in precisely this self-securing social function of labels: the social categories are no doubt a safeguard against the innovations personality untrammelled would be up to, and this protection is by no means a trifling social function;… they are an unparalleled means of gratifying the will to power as it expresses itself in social relations. […] the preeminent function of social classification appears therefore to be social rule… classification is nine-tenths of subjection. indeed to rule over another successfully you have only to see to it that he keeps his place — his place as a male, her place as a female, his or her place as a junior, as a subject or servant or social “inferior” of any kind, as an outcast or exile, a ghost or a god. art by olivier tallec from louis i, king of the sheep classification, parsons observes, is not just what we do with others but what we do with ourselves in our struggle for belonging and self-inclusion — a struggle that sometimes metastasizes into a tendency toward punitive exclusion directed at those we place outside the boundaries of our self-elected classifications. in a sentiment of chilling relevance to a common malfunction of twenty-first-century identity politics — a necessary healing of painful historical exclusions in many ways, but also one, like all compensatory advancements, in danger of over-compensating by veering into an unhealing direction of further divisiveness — parsons adds: self-control is a means to controlling other people. so is self-classification. the feeling of having our class back of us gives us self-assurance… we enhance our sense of power. similarly, by declassifying or demoting others or by suspending their regular classification, so to speak, we get a pleasurable sense of our own power. with the eye to the history of civilizations, parsons argues that “the bulk of our surplus energy, energy beyond that applied to sustaining life,” is exerted on subjugating others. having long advocated for women’s equal inclusion in the intellectual, creative, and political spheres of society, she observes that even the classification feminist has been hijacked and contorted to work in a direction opposite to its intended purpose. three years before women finally won the right to vote, and half a century after walt whitman insisted that “the sole avenue and means of a reconstructed sociology depended, primarily, on a new birth, elevation, expansion, invigoration of woman,” parsons writes: even the woman movement we have called feminism has not succeeded by and large in giving women any control over men. it has only changed the distribution of women along the two stated lines of control by men, removing vast numbers of women from the class supported by men to the class working for them. […] the main objective of feminism in fact may be defeminisation, the declassification of women as women, the recognition of women as human beings or personalities. it is not hard to see why the classification of women according to sex has ever been so thorough and so rigid. as long as they are thought of in terms of sex and that sex the weaker or the submissive, they are subject by hypothesis to control… the more thoroughly a woman is classified the more easily is she controlled. art by margaret c. cook from a rare 1913 edition of leaves of grass. (available as a print.) economic caste distinctions, parsons argues, operate along similar lines of social function. decades before the golden age of consumerism opened its post-industrial jaws into gaping income inequality and swallowed the century, she writes: through consumption a still greater measure of difference is achieved. this achievement is particularly characteristic of course in the class that can best afford to elaborate its consumption, the capitalist class, but within the labour class too different standards of living, i. e. of consuming make for caste demarcations. […] conspicuous consumption, conspicuous waste is in all classes a manifestation of the will to power. in another passage of extraordinary prescience, penned in the midst of one world war, decades ahead the unfathomed next, and a century before the xenophobic border catastrophes of our own time, parsons considers nationalistic tendencies and the social domination of immigrants as particularly perilous expressions of this destructive will to power: naturalisation, as it is called in political terms, or, more comprehensively, assimilation is a complex process of classification which has of course more than one end… making citizens is an outlet for the energy of many groups of the native born. when the outlet is denied them, when foreigners are considered too disparate for assimilation to become possible or when immigrants have resisted assimilation en masse by living in segregated communities, the native born are gravely concerned. they feel thwarted and they look for relief. restriction of immigration is one of their favourite self-relief measures. art by yara kono from three balls of wool (can change the world) by henriqueta cristina — a poignant children’s book about immigration, nonconformity, and the courage to remake society’s givens with a condemnatory eye toward a harsh immigration bill that had just been proposed, aiming to bar hindus from entering the united states and to require an english literacy test from other immigrants, parsons observes that such efforts to legalize discrimination are not just a momentary flinch from the terrors of a war-torn world but emblematic of a deeper, darker human folly — an observation that the following century, with its japanese internment camps and mexican border wall, would prove grimly astute: this campaign against hyphenated americans is an outcome of a particular state of panic, to be sure, but it must also be viewed as a consistent, if acute, part of the ordinary american attitude towards the immigrant. or, to speak more justly, of the articulate anglo-saxon american’s attitude. far ahead of her time, parsons argued for the respect and inclusion not only of the various races and the two sexes, but also — long before homosexuality was declassified as a mental disorder, the term lgbtq coined, and the trans identity proudly claimed — for the rights of gender-nonconforming persons: “men-women or women-men, the unsexed.” she widened the circle of empathy and creaturely dignity to non-human animals, inveighing against cruelty and slaughter, and correctly terming the captivity of wild animals in zoos, circuses, and royal courts a form of “enslavement.” finally, turning to the essential humanistic lens that must govern all science — for she had seen science warped and politicized in fueling the racist ideologies that set her world ablaze with war, hatred, and exclusion — parsons ends the book with an admonition we are yet to heed and a vision we are yet to realize — a vision for a world where science becomes not a tool of subjugation and extractionism but an emissary of the wonder of nature and human nature; a world in which diversity becomes not a point of divisiveness but a crowning glory of our interconnected fates: unless our culture does develop along certain lines, principally along the line of a greater tolerance for the individual variation, a greater respect for personality, scientific applications to society may indeed prove unimaginable tyranny. aside from this possible turn of culture, however, there is another social relief in sight. applied science will be concentrated more and more upon nature. this diversion of energy from controlling the animate or the moral to controlling the inanimate or the non-moral is in fact in process; it is already one of the most characteristic features of modern life. thanks to the mechanical inventions it resulted in, it has led to innumerable new fields of work and play — for children, for women, and for other subject classes. it is transforming child-bearing and the education of children. it has meant public hygiene. some day it may mean social art. it has transformed belief in the mystical efficacy of staying home into concern over home conditions. it has meant improving neighbourhoods (rather than regulating neighbours). it has directed attention from the ethics of proprietorship to the ethics of use. it has meant the preservation of natural resources, substituting here as elsewhere the idea of collective ownership for the theory of natural rights and private property. it has meant a world-wide system of communication and transportation. some day it will mean industrial democracy. some day it will mean the disappearance of nationalisation as it is now understood and the disappearance of national wars. through lessening interest not only in political boundaries but in all social boundaries it will force a condition of greater social tolerance in general, precluding the individual from masking an attitude of arrogance or tyranny under a social classification. in it, in the concentration of our energy upon bettering nature rather than upon bettering man, or, shall we say, in bettering human beings through bettering the conditions they live under, in such outlets for effort and ambition i find the opportunity par excellence for a greater measure of social freedom. complement with the great humanistic philosopher and psychologist erich fromm, a cultural descendent of parsons, on the sane society and what will save us from ourselves, then revisit james baldwin’s classic “stranger in the village,” exploring these complex issues along the tightrope between conviction and nuance the way only baldwin can. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: email article share article tweet pocket page 2 of 1,384‹ prev1234567next ›last » view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.