video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map brand licensing program entrepreneur® brand licensing program thank you for your interest in our brand licensing program. we hope you find this information useful, and we look forward to hearing from you. we are interested in hearing about brand licensing ideas that provide an opportunity to extend our brands to products and services that are aligned with our core values and the brand's targeted consumers. the entrepreneur brand and lifestyle entrepreneurship has become a dominant and powerful ideology reaching communities across all borders and languages. individuals everywhere are eagerly standing up to identify themselves as entrepreneurs, whether they own a business or not. that's because the hallmark characteristics of this movement and the entrepreneur® brand embody innovative thinking, passionate living and leadership, and most importantly, the desire to achieve personal excellence with every pursuit. the entrepreneur® brand has cultivated and inspired this way of life for decades. now, through licensing, the trust and dedication held by the entrepreneur® name can be extended to those products and services closely aligned with the most sought after lifestyle in the world. our process we will review requests that we believe fit with our brands and businesses. if we are interested in your request, we will forward a licensee application for you to complete within 14 days. this will provide us with more information about your company and proposal. at this time, we will also provide you with an entrepreneur media point of contact to further discuss your interest. once we have received your completed licensing application, we will contact you to discuss next steps. if we choose not to proceed with your proposal, we will contact you to let you know of our decision. getting started if you are interested in brand licensing opportunities, we ask that you complete our form below. by submitting this information, you agree that we may contact you about this and other topics via e-mail, phone, fax or mail. you may opt out of our contact database at any time. please acknowledge your understanding of these terms and conditions by clicking on the "accept" link below, and you will be automatically directed to the required application. accept and continue company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account