their agency helped launch over 50 startups — creating nearly $15 billion in market value. now, follow along as they build a direct-to-consumer business of their own. listen to the podcast breaking brand get started with buffer about breaking brand breaking brand is a buffer podcast series that takes you behind-the-scenes with the pattern brands founding team as it embarks on a remarkable journey to build a direct-to-consumer business and launch its first brand to market. prior to starting pattern brands, its founding team ran an incredibly successful brand and marketing agency called gin lane, helping brands like harry's, sweetgreen, smile direct club launch to market. episodes episode 1 gin lane with their agency at the forefront of its industry, success wasn’t quite what it seemed. duration: 23:09 listen on:apple podcastsspotifyanchor episode 2 the major leagues rediscovering the joy in everyday moments pulls the team towards a new mission. duration: 25:51 listen on:apple podcastsspotifyanchor episode 3 enjoy daily life slow down. pause. step back. the road to launch isn’t always straight. duration: 22:21 listen on:apple podcastsspotifyanchor episode 4 equal parts inspiration doesn’t always come from obvious places. can 70’s jazz music encourage a culinary revolution? duration: 18:35 listen on:apple podcastsspotifyanchor episode 5 next up after launching its first brand to market, the team reflects on the journey and what’s next for pattern. duration: 22:21 listen on:apple podcastsspotifyanchor thanks for listening! all episodes in season 1 are now available. credits emmett shine creative director & co-founder of pattern brands camille baldwin vp brand & founding team of pattern brands nick ling ceo & co-founder of pattern brands erin griffith new york times journalist, reporting on technology start-ups and venture capital nik sharma direct-consumer strategist and marketer tyler sgro general manager of equal parts richie siegel loose threads founder & ceo max miller audio engineer and producer based in new york city sandra ferrari head of production at message heard jake warren founder and ceo of message heard emily whalley marketing and communications at message heard ash read editorial and content at buffer copyright @2020 buffer