home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home › the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds. we strive to help millions of people outside of tech to take action toward the different paths in tech that they may or may not be aware of. u.s. tech job market stats in 2015 tech industry workers tech worker average wage tech job openings tech companies the mission of the breaking into startups podcast is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. we are breaking existing stereotypes around hiring people from non-traditional backgrounds through education, mentorship and resources. featured article breaking into startups story the reality of breaking into startups - the first product you build is yourself. read article team artur meyster co-founder ruben harris co-founder timur meyster co-founder angelo kwek growth marketer shredrick turner designer jerson obial sound engineer kuh lou pangan project manager kate balbin content editor maxwell hawes photographer subscribe be the first to get the latest breaking into startups podcast updates, right to your inbox. we’ll never spam you. our guests came from: about us the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds.our mission is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. facebook twitter instagram © 2020 breaking into startups. privacy policy top join 1,055 other subscribers! email subscribe now we respect your privacy. join our newsletter today! stay updated with all the latest episodes, upcoming events & much more. hack reactor prep prepare for any coding bootcam (free) learn more no thanks!