newsletter 24 breakfast sandwich recipes that are easy enough for weekdays written by abigail thorpe on march 4, 2020 new with meat vegetarian vegan sweet bottom line sometimes the best breakfast is one you can eat on-the-go. as much as we try to sit down for meals, we’re often too rushed in the a.m., especially if we’re also hitting the gym — or the snooze button. for a morning meal that fuels your day and still fits in your hands, look no further than these breakfast sandwiches. the options are superior to what you’d find at a fast-food joint or coffee shop (and they’re way less greasy). we’re talking bacon, sausage, egg, vegan, fruit, chocolate — pretty much anything that fits between slices of bread, a bagel, or a croissant. with so many choices, you’ll never skip breakfast again. breakfast sandwich recipes with meat 1. bacon and egg croissant sandwich share on pinterest we had to include a classic up front. after all, it’s a great way to fuel up before a busy day. this sandwich balances the richness of a croissant with savory eggs and, of course, bacon. 2. lox avocado toast share on pinterest forget the blt. if you’re like us, you’ll prefer trading in this old favorite for some avo and lox instead. you’re getting good fats from the avocado, some protein from the lox, antioxidants from the veggies, and carbs courtesy of the toast. if you’re feeling extra adventurous, try stacking it on your favorite type of bagel. 3. 3-ingredient bbq beef sandwich share on pinterest ditch the dry granola bars and opt for this tasty sandwich on your weekday mornings instead. this super simple recipe only has three ingredients, so it’s no hassle with tons of taste. it’s so fun and simple to make you don’t even need summer as an excuse — just fire up the grill. 4. croque monsieur share on pinterest a french favorite served on another french favorite: the croissant. who could ask for more? a creamy béchamel sauce mixed with gruyère makes this a cheese lover’s dream. it may not be the healthiest thing ever, but it’s too good to pass up, especially if you buy croissants fresh from the bakery. 5. freezer-friendly breakfast sandwich share on pinterest this is your go-to breakfast if you’re in a huge hurry in the mornings. the freezer-friendly meal combines turkey sausage, eggs, and a whole-wheat english muffin for a ton of flavor with minimal prep time. 6. the easiest breakfast patty melt share on pinterest while we love our toppings, there’s something to be said for a traditional sandwich, besides the quicker prep time. you won’t have to get up at the crack of dawn to make it. this recipe keeps it simple yet tasty with eggs, sausage, and cheese, but then it adds on onions for some additional flavor. 7. copycat starbucks breakfast sandwich share on pinterest love getting your starbucks fix but don’t want to drop money on breakfast out? we’ve got your back. this (near) copy of the standard starbucks breakfast sandwich is super easy to make at home. 8. guacamole breakfast sandwich share on pinterest this exquisite sandwich is as beautiful as it is delicious, though we don’t recommend trying to stack the ingredients as gracefully as this blogger did. the bacon vinaigrette and blue cheese already have us drooling, and we haven’t even gotten to the egg. add in some greens, and you’ve got your protein and a few veggies for the morning. vegetarian breakfast sandwich ideas 9. crispy kale grilled cheese with fried eggs share on pinterest this one’s for the kale lovers out there. stock up on vitamins a and c, while treating yourself to some bacon-y, egg-y goodness. you could sandwich this between any type of bread, but we love the hearty whole-wheat bun. 10. open-faced power breakfast sandwich with egg whites, avocado, and tomato share on pinterest when you’re craving bread but don’t want to overload on a greasy breakfast sandwich, this is a healthier happy medium. this sandwich stacks egg whites, tomato, and avocado for a beauty of a breakfast. don’t even think about leaving out the protein-rich spinach. 11. huevos rancheros breakfast sandwich share on pinterest grab the salsa and avos for this california favorite. it’s substantial enough to keep you energized for a long time and easy to make. just don’t plan on eating it in the car — this is one of those meals where it’s hard not to get something on you. it’s so spicy, creamy, gooey, and amazing, so you really won’t care. 12. mediterranean egg white breakfast sandwich with roasted tomatoes share on pinterest this healthy morning meal is a bit like grilled cheese and tomato soup in one. so, basically, heaven on a plate. you can use dried herbs in a pinch: just add them straight to the omelet like you would with fresh herbs. to get added nutrients, make sure your bread is 100 percent whole grain. healthy breakfast sandwich recipes for vegans 13. 5-minute tofu “egg” salad sandwich share on pinterest this quick sandwich brings the taste (and look) of egg salad without, well, the actual eggs. because you’re making vegan egg salad, this sandwich takes a lot of spices and ingredients, but don’t worry, the whole endeavor takes just 5 minutes. then you can chow down and enjoy. 14. vegan breakfast sandwich (for less than $3) share on pinterest the blogger combines scrambled tofu and tempeh bacon for protein, but if you’re tight on time, just use the bacon or buy tofu that’s already flavored. spread garlic hummus or guacamole on an english muffin, add your protein and some vegan cheese, then top with tomato and avocado. 15. mushroom melt breakfast sandwich share on pinterest you can use any kind of mushrooms and greens for this recipe, and it’ll taste absolutely delicious. just the tiniest bit of berry jam adds unexpected sweetness to the savory dish. the vegan sausage and mushrooms guarantee you won’t feel hungry afterward. 16. savory tempeh breakfast sandwich share on pinterest if you’re crazy for savory breakfasts, this is the sandwich for you. the hearty soy and maple flavors in the tempeh combine for a unique taste and are paired with freshly sliced avocado. how could you go wrong? 17. vegan breakfast sandwich share on pinterest with the simple combo of kale, avocado, olive oil, and almond butter, this is the perfect savory start to any day. since the recipe is so basic, it’s easy to sub in whatever ingredients you’re feeling. sweet breakfast sandwich recipes 18. croissants filled with brie and strawberries share on pinterest we love brie in all things, so this sandwich is right up our alley. the buttery croissant pairs perfectly with the creamy cheese, and the strawberries add just the slightest sweetness. it’s easy on the eyes, mouth, and stomach. 19. fried banana and bacon breakfast sandwich share on pinterest bust out the forks. bananas (not just any bananas, fried bananas) are sandwiched inside a cinnamon raisin english muffin, topped with cream cheese and then bacon. it’s a dish that will have you jumping out of bed. 20. english muffin fruit breakfast pizza share on pinterest ok, so this is sort of sandwich, sort of breakfast pizza, but who are we to complain? the combo of berries, peanut butter, hazelnut spread (aka nutella), and powdered sugar is the perfect morning treat. 21. strawberry-banana breakfast quesadilla share on pinterest oh yes, we went there. this has got it all: peanut butter, chocolate, and coconut. oh, and don’t forget the fruit! that may sound like an odd combo, but take one bite and you’ll be in gooey heaven. the blogger also notes a bunch of other flavor combos you can try, like apple, almond butter, and cinnamon, so you can never get bored. 22. banana stuffed french toast share on pinterest maybe not the healthiest breakfast you could fix, but not too unhealthy either! you can always hold off on some sugar and let the fruit do its job. nutrition aside, the bananas and gooey french toast make the ultimate combo. if you don’t end the morning with a smile on your face, you’re not human. 23. french toast sandwiches with peaches and mozzarella share on pinterest baked french toast gets even more gourmet when you top it with fresh mozzarella and peaches (the combo may sound strange, but trust us on this). cap it all off with another slice of french toast that’s crispy on the outside, soft in the middle. try other fruit too, as this sweet, cinnamon recipe is perfect with pretty much anything. 24. brie and blueberry waffle grilled cheese share on pinterest you had us at waffle. seriously, grilled cheese for breakfast? when it consists of waffles, brie, and blueberries, sure! top with maple syrup drizzle and you’ll never want to skip breakfast again. bottom line breakfast sandwiches are a staple for good reason, but most of us don’t quite realize how creative you can get! sweet or savory, meaty or meat-free, we’ve got you covered. come tomorrow, you’ll be bounding out of bed. written by abigail thorpe on march 4, 2020 new must reads 31 healthy and fast breakfast recipes for busy mornings 9 ways to eat cookies for breakfast breakfast salads! yes, they're a thing and these are delish 22 vegan breakfasts you can make in 15 minutes or less read this next 31 healthy and fast breakfast recipes for busy mornings healthy breakfasts you can whip up fast, including delicious vegan dishes, creamy smoothies, whole grains, and eggs any way you want ’em.read more 9 ways to eat cookies for breakfast breakfast cookies are warm, often stuffed with chocolate, and easy to eat on the go. so, yeah, they have us throwing off the covers and racing to the…read more breakfast salads! yes, they're a thing and these are delish there’s something to eating a salad first thing in the morning. not only does it get greens out of the way, but it can help keep you focused during…read more 22 vegan breakfasts you can make in 15 minutes or less recipes for homemade, vegan meals in the morning — that you can make in 15 minutes or less.read more about contact privacy careers archive advertise with us terms newsletter © 2019 greatist a red ventures company. our content does not constitute a medical consultation. see a certified medical professional for diagnosis.