skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation brecht de rooms our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. article march 26, 2020 consistent backends and ux: how do new algorithms help? author brecht de rooms comments start conversation article series why should you care? what can go wrong? what are the barriers to adoption? how do new algorithms help? in previous articles, we explained what consistency is, the difference between "strong" and "eventual" consistency, and why this distinction is more important than ever to modern application developers. we also introduced the notion of ‘consistency tax’: the extra time and effort that a development team needs to invest if they choose a system with only eventual consistency or limited … read article “consistent backends and ux: how do new algorithms help?” article march 19, 2020 consistent backends and ux: what are the barriers to adoption? author brecht de rooms comments start conversation there are very few scenarios in which an eventually consistent database is preferable over a strongly consistent database. further, in a multi-region application scenario where scaling is necessary, choosing either an undistributed database or an eventually consistent database is even more questionable. so what motivates engineers to ignore strongly consistent distributed databases? we have seen many reasons, but wrong assumptions drive most of them. article march 12, 2020 consistent backends and ux: what can go wrong? author brecht de rooms comments start conversation article series why should you care? what can go wrong? what are the barriers to adoption? how do new algorithms help? in the previous article, we explained what strong (vs. eventual) consistency is. this article is the second part of a series where we explain how a lack of strong consistency makes it harder to deliver a good end-user experience, can bring serious engineering overhead, and opens you up to exploits. this part is longer since we will explain different … read article “consistent backends and ux: what can go wrong?” article march 5, 2020 consistent backends and ux: why should you care? author brecht de rooms 2 comments join conversation more than ever, new products aim to make an impact on a global scale, and user experience is rapidly becoming the determining factor for whether they are successful or not. how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers