toggle navigation blog home subscribe contact mrc business mrc culture mrc latino mrc techwatch donate white house press briefing coronavirus 2020 presidential research & studies brent bozell follow founder and president brent bozell is the founder and president of the media research center lecturer, syndicated columnist, television commentator, debater, marketer, businessman, author, publisher and activist, l. brent bozell iii is one of the most outspoken and effective national leaders in the conservative movement today. founder and president of the media research center, mr. bozell runs the largest media watchdog organization in america. established in 1987, the mrc has made “media bias” a household term. he is the author of the books collusion: how the media stole the 2012 election and how to stop them from doing it in 2016 (with tim graham), whitewash: what the media won’t tell you about hillary clinton, but conservatives will (also with tim graham), and weapons of mass distortion: the coming meltdown of the liberal media. he is also the chairman of foramerica. latest from brent bozell why must disney animated films cave to demands for lgbt characters? by brent bozell | february 20, 2020 8:09 pm est modern identity politics should have no part in entertaining children, certainly not at the expense of truth. hollywood tells us constantly that it only reflects reality. here’s the reality for you: in 2017 just 3-4% of the population was lgbt. yet glaad wants 20% tv characters to be gay. what quota have they set as acceptable for animated shows at disney? why in the world must children be subjected to this? why can’t they be allowed to be… children? column: hbo -- vicious to christians, silent on muslims by brent bozell and tim graham | february 15, 2020 7:25 am est hbo is currently running a dark little miniseries called the new pope, which is basically a reboot of 2017's the young pope. both sprang from the mind of italian creator paolo sorrentino, and both are scabrously anti-catholic, which never hurts you with the elites in manhattan and hollywood. in between these, hbo trashed televangelists in the righteous gemstones. they're never going to make a nasty series called the new ayatollah. column: no centrists in the democratic primaries by brent bozell and tim graham | february 12, 2020 8:14 am est on sunday, the washington post editorial page led with a dramatic and rarely uttered fact check. the headline was “there are no ‘centrists’ – the democratic primary race is not a choice between change and the status quo.” the post insisted “every major democratic candidate is running on an agenda to the left of mr. obama’s.” npr also arrived at this candid and accurate assessment. column: attack of the 'fact checking' clones by brent bozell and tim graham | february 8, 2020 7:08 am est under president trump, the state of the union address has become the super bowl for the left-leaning “fact checkers.” it doesn’t matter if republicans and independents enjoyed it immensely. like nancy pelosi, these journalists want to rip his speech to pieces because it somehow overflows with “untruths.” but these supposedly “independent” guardians are failures at fact-checking the democratic party response. column: impeachment dies in desperation by brent bozell and tim graham | february 5, 2020 8:19 am est as the trump impeachment effort inevitably burns out on the ash heap of history, democrats are left to argue that if this president is left unchecked, if he’s not removed from office, he’ll “do it again.” he’ll pressure foreign governments to investigate the business dealings of the bidens, which is a “threat to national security." but a democratic house majority has aggressively checked him with investigations. bozell & graham column: turn the page on impeachment by brent bozell and tim graham | january 31, 2020 6:15 am est the national narrators of our politics love brandishing the word “historic” to describe the trump impeachment process. but by now, it feels unexceptional, more like chapter 27 of the same old saga. in their overdramatic trump narrative, the president is always a democracy-killing villain who is about to get his comeuppance. in the first week of trial coverage, nicholas fondacaro of the mrc found the evening newscasts were completely negative toward the trump defense team, and touted the house managers. bozell & graham column: the media's dreadful impeachment partisanship by brent bozell and tim graham | january 28, 2020 10:57 pm est one favorite tactic of our “objective” media during the trump impeachment is to find a clip of the president’s legal experts expressing an opinion during the bill clinton impeachment in 1998 and 1999 and then showing a contrast with the present day. but this is just as easily demonstrated with the press. in both impeachments, the press flipped to whichever talking points were in use by the democrats. bozell & graham column: adam schiff's avalanche of accolades by brent bozell and tim graham | january 24, 2020 6:16 am est our media elites arrogantly lecture about our democracy being undermined by robotic propaganda, but do they ever listen to themselves talk about the democrats? somehow, they think their robotic propaganda is just telling the “truth.” the press came to witness the senate impeachment trial, and adam schiff had them at “hello. did you know he's the second coming of abraham lincoln at gettysburg? bozell & graham column: pretending hunter biden is irrelevant by brent bozell and tim graham | january 22, 2020 6:37 am est the impeachment trial of donald trump should begin with an indictment of the media. the alleged crime committed by president trump revolves around his request that the president of ukraine investigate the shady business dealings of hunter biden with a corrupt ukrainian oil and gas company. that investigation might have been unnecessary had the news media chosen to do what they're supposed to be doing: investigative journalism. video bozell & graham column: impeachment is now sacred? by brent bozell and tim graham | january 16, 2020 11:05 pm est just ten months ago, speaker nancy pelosi proclaimed that impeachment of donald trump would not happen unless “there’s something so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan.” the house vote to impeach trump was the dictionary definition of partisan – not a single republican voted yes. there is nothing compelling and overwhelming here. but msnbc and kthe rest of the pro-impeachment media are heavily invested in describing impeachment as wonderful and "almost religious." bozell & graham column: stop the silly 'centrist' labels for democrats by brent bozell and tim graham | january 15, 2020 7:52 am est the most abused adjective in political reporting is the label “centrist.” it should tell you everything about the politician. unfortunately it tells us far more about those applying the label. reporters call democrats "centrist" when they have an american conservative union score of five percent. this tells you where journalists are located on the political spectrum. it's not in the "mainstream." bozell and graham column: hollywood gets an education by brent bozell and tim graham | january 11, 2020 8:34 am est ricky gervais, the perpetually snarky british comedian, set social media on fire after he mocked arrogant hollywood in his opening monologue as host of the golden globe awards. “you’re in no position to lecture the public -- about anything. you know nothing about the real world. most of you spent less time in school than greta thunberg.” everything that followed only underlined his point about celebrities being educated. bozell & graham column: our unpatriotic press coddles dictators by brent bozell and tim graham | january 7, 2020 10:57 pm est in the wake of qasem soleamani's death, cnn host brian stelter insisted patriotism is defined by tough questions. there’s nothing wrong with skeptical questions. but why is it impossible to celebrate blowing up the man responsible for the deaths of untold thousands, including over 600 americans? and why do they so often fail to muster that same sort of skeptical questioning for the tyrants and thugs opposing american interests? theirs is a long, sordid history of offering unchallenged platforms and even buttery sympathy to our enemies. bozell & graham column: never trust hollywood with history by brent bozell and tim graham | january 4, 2020 7:56 am est hollywood loves taking apart conservatives. so when presented with the idea of men in the highest reaches of the conservative media sexually harassing women at the office, it was manna from heaven. you’ll not find a ripped-from-the-headlines tv dramatization of harvey weinstein's predations. there's no hellish-office movie on the sexual abuses of matt lauer at nbc, or charlie rose at cbs. there is only bombshell, a fictionalized account of the hostile sexist atmosphere at fox news. bozell & graham column: media yawn at the war on christians by brent bozell and tim graham | december 31, 2019 11:33 pm est the secular media greet christmas as a shopping season, and not as a special time for christianity. they can devote hours of december "news" on which hot toys or gadgets would make great gifts, but not to segments on christ and his birth. the same applies to the persecution of christians. the apathy shown by the pro-"human rights" media here is appalling. bozell & graham column: cultural winners and losers of 2019 by brent bozell and tim graham | december 28, 2019 8:48 am est whenever a force on the cultural left flaps its wings, it is saluted. in the rare occasion that the entity advances the cultural right, it's slammed, or ignored. but that's not necessarily how america sees it, thanks to social media that has done an end run around the press and told the truth. the left still dominates in the cultural space, but it no longer enjoys a monopoly. let's look at the cultural winners and losers of 2019 bozell & graham column: smashing santa and jesus for christmas by brent bozell and tim graham | december 24, 2019 5:55 pm est the war on christmas marches on. secularists -- let's say it: atheists -- are leaving no stone unturned. supreme court justice neil gorsuch said “merry christmas” in an interview on fox & friends. leftists pounced, complaining this was a “talking point for the gop.” hollywood sees that old-time religion as a relentless nightmare of oppression. christmas makes them want to tear the roof off of a nativity set. so they vent through entertainment television. bozell & graham column: the media help erode our norms by brent bozell and tim graham | december 21, 2019 8:11 am est when the washington post infamously posted the motto “democracy dies in darkness” on its masthead after donald trump was elected, it was implicit -- oh, sure, they'll deny it -- that trump was the enemy of democracy, and of “light,” or transparency. so it was sadly poetic that after the house democrats rammed through such an incredibly partisan impeachment vote – without a single republican voting aye – washington post reporters posted a photograph on twitter celebrating with beers. bozell & graham column: a harsh critique of media ethics by brent bozell and tim graham | december 17, 2019 11:07 pm est the pew research center, firmly ensconced inside the liberal establishment, has a new poll that worries them sick. (perhaps not as much as the new usa today survey that shows trump now defeating every single democrat opponent.)when asked about the ethical standards of the media, 31 percent of republicans chose “very low” ethical standards, and another 48 percent picked “low.” among democrats, ten percent chose “very high” ethical standards and 53 percent selected “high.” bozell & graham column: devin nunes, mocked for being right by brent bozell and tim graham | december 14, 2019 7:59 am est a few weeks back on life, liberty & levin, rep. devin nunes boasted about his memo on fisa abuse: “and what we really find out now? everything that we said at that time was 100 percent accurate. everything that the democrats and the media said at the time: 100 percent inaccurate.” the ig report backs up the nunes version of events, and confirms the adam schiff/media rebuttal is mostly false. 1 2 3 4 … next › last » column: railing against the fox virus? cnn analyst: it's 'ridiculous' trump thinks we're rooting against him column: press briefings and ego bruisings hayes: conservatives set to kill a ‘million’ seniors to save economy study: china escapes scrutiny in tv’s coronavirus coverage about newsbusters send a tip cnsnews.com mrctv mrc action careers advertise support newsbusters support mrc business support mrc culture support mrc latino the mission of the media research center is to create a media culture in america where truth and liberty flourish. the mrc is a research and education organization operating under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code, and contributions to the mrc are tax-deductible. privacy policy | terms of use © 2005-2020, media research center. all rights reserved.