menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies brianna wiest my new book on self-sabotage will be out in june 2020 latest posts there is no such thing as falling behind, there is not just one way your life can unfold when we are young, and before we really have a sense of autonomy, our lives are governed by a process, a specific order. by brianna wiest, 17 mar 2020 read this when you know what you need to heal, but don’t know how there’s nothing that’s going to hold you back more than getting discouraged because your entire life doesn’t change in a week. by brianna wiest, 12 mar 2020 social distancing is not overreacting to covid-19; it can potentially save thousands of lives if you’ve been paying attention to the news surrounding the covid-19 outbreak, what you’ve probably seen is a mix of three sentiments: the disease is accelerating rapidly; every measure possible is being taken to cancel events and close public meeting… by brianna wiest, 12 mar 2020 responding to the trigger differently is the only way you’re going to heal it if you are someone who wants to reclaim your power, then you are going to have to learn to respond to your triggers differently. by brianna wiest, 11 mar 2020 being petty about your past makes you look worse than anyone else life disappoints us all in some way, at some point. by brianna wiest, 10 mar 2020 not everyone is going to heal the way you did, and they’re not supposed to not everyone is headed to the same destination is you. by brianna wiest, 10 mar 2020 another person’s success script is never going to give you the life you want the honest truth is that another person’s path to success is not ever going to fulfill you, and it’s probably the honest reason why your best efforts never quite seem to be good enough. by brianna wiest, 9 mar 2020 ‘overcorrecting’ is the self-sabotaging behavior that keeps ambitious women stuck if you are an ambitious person, you have undoubtedly fallen into the trap of overcorrecting, and honestly, you’re probably doing it right now. by brianna wiest, 9 mar 2020 the version of someone you have in your mind is not always who they are in reality remembering this is both heartbreaking, and freeing. by brianna wiest, 3 mar 2020 jennifer vaughan is changing the way the world sees hiv+ women “never in a million years did i think that i would be part of that statistic.” jennifer vaughan, a native californian, says that growing up on the west coast in the 80s, she had always heard about the hiv crisis,… by brianna wiest, 3 mar 2020 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 ... 91 next » on the web collective world instagram facebook amazon quote catalog website brianna’s books book info $9.99 book info amazon apple $4.99 book info amazon apple contact brianna name email subject message send get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.