envato market web themes & templates code video audio graphics photos 3d files search popular files featured files top new files follow feed top authors top new authors public collections wordpress show all wordpress popular items blog / magazine buddypress corporate creative directory & listings ecommerce education elementor entertainment mobile nonprofit real estate retail technology wedding miscellaneous wordpress plugins on codecanyon hosting html show all html popular items admin templates corporate creative entertainment mobile nonprofit personal retail specialty pages technology wedding miscellaneous marketing show all marketing popular items email templates landing pages pagewiz unbounce landing pages google web designer ads on codecanyon cms show all cms popular items concrete5 drupal joomla modx themes moodle mura webflow weebly miscellaneous ecommerce show all ecommerce popular items woocommerce 3dcart bigcommerce cart66 cs-cart drupal commerce easy digital downloads ecwid jigoshop magento opencart oscommerce prestashop shopify ubercart virtuemart wp e-commerce zen cart muse show all muse popular items corporate creative ecommerce landing personal miscellaneous muse widgets on codecanyon ui design psd templates popular psd templates sketch templates popular sketch templates plugins logo maker business logo maker gaming logo maker twitch logo maker sports logo maker real estate logo maker medical logo maker service logo maker fitness brand logo maker clothing logo maker restaurant logo maker bar logo maker beauty logo maker bakery logo maker youtube logo maker more blogging courses facebook templates forums free elementor templates ghost themes jekyll tumblr typeengine themes guest cart 0 create an envato account sign in envato elements unlimited downloads envato elements: wordpress themes, plugins, video templates & more! unlimited downloads account sites, search & categories forums start selling menu our products digital assets subscription launch simple websites hire a freelancer tutorials & courses create designs, videos & mockups join the envato community learn from others in the forums cart 0 sign in web themes & templates code video audio graphics photos 3d files all items popular files featured files top new files follow feed top authors top new authors public collections view all categories wordpress popular items all items blog / magazine buddypress corporate creative directory & listings ecommerce education elementor entertainment mobile nonprofit real estate retail technology wedding miscellaneous wordpress plugins on codecanyon hosting html popular items all items admin templates corporate creative entertainment mobile nonprofit personal retail specialty pages technology wedding miscellaneous marketing popular items all items email templates landing pages pagewiz unbounce landing pages google web designer ads on codecanyon cms popular items all items concrete5 drupal joomla modx themes moodle mura webflow weebly miscellaneous ecommerce popular items all items woocommerce 3dcart bigcommerce cart66 cs-cart drupal commerce easy digital downloads ecwid jigoshop magento opencart oscommerce prestashop shopify ubercart virtuemart wp e-commerce zen cart muse popular items all items corporate creative ecommerce landing personal miscellaneous muse widgets on codecanyon ui design all items psd templates popular psd templates sketch templates popular sketch templates plugins logo maker all items business logo maker gaming logo maker twitch logo maker sports logo maker real estate logo maker medical logo maker service logo maker fitness brand logo maker clothing logo maker restaurant logo maker bar logo maker beauty logo maker bakery logo maker youtube logo maker more blogging courses facebook templates forums free elementor templates ghost themes jekyll tumblr typeengine themes search home files wordpress creative bridge - creative multipurpose wordpress theme bridge - creative multipurpose wordpress theme $59 item details reviews comments support item details item details reviews comments support trending live preview share facebook google plus twitter pinterest add to favorites add to collection bridge is a responsive retina multipurpose wordpress theme perfect for just about anyone. whether you are a creative, a corporate team, a lawyer, a medical doctor or a freelancer looking for a modern portfolio website or a personal blog, bridge is your best option. build with wpbakery or elementor – it’s your choice! need a 1-page gallery, a coming soon or an app landing page? own a restaurant, a bar or a pizza parlor? a gym or a fitness studio? you have a wellness or a spa center, or promote healthy lifestyle? we got you! bridge is here if you need a superb website for your hotel, travel tour, church, wedding, shop, seo digital marketing agency, or if you are into photography, architecture, fashion, design, organic food, music or offer any type of service out there. bridge is not just a theme, it’s a collection of amazing examples with tons of features. the possibilities are truly endless. bridge comes with bundled plugins. for details on how bundled plugins work, please refer to this article: https://help.market.envato.com/hc/en-us/articles/213762463-bundled-plugins test login account for all bridge demos that contain the front-end user login functionality, you can use the following credentials to log in and check out the user dashboard and all the amazing options it provides username: test password: test main features 400+ unique demos – you’ll find what you need in one of our fully equipped demos, whether you’re in search of a blog, a business website, or even something as specific as an online store for your pet shop. easy to import and highly customizable, we created the bridge demos to make your life easier. 24 layout concepts – explore all bridge possibilities with 24 new layout concepts – ranging from standard site layouts to authentic and innovative designs. you’re certain to find the perfect solution for your perfect website within our collection of creative concepts. qode video tutorials – get started with bridge even faster! visit the official qode interactive youtube channel to check out our comrehensive step-by-step video tutorials. new full listing functionality – bridge now comes with a fully functional listing plugin that lets you create listing and directory websites. the plugin includes a new listing post type, a variety of shortcodes for displaying your listings, and much more. new full news functionality – create your news website with bridge. thanks to the awesome news plugin, bridge now comes with a variety of shortcodes specifically designed for displaying posts in beautiful news and magazine style layouts. new full restaurant functionality – the bridge restaurant plugin lets you create a beautiful and fully functional presentation for your restaurant or cafe. create a reastaurant menu, display your working hours, let clients book tables by connecting your website with your opentable account, and much more. new front-end login functionality – let your website users create their own accounts or login via their social network profiles with the all-new membership plugin for bridge. qode slider – amazing responsive full-screen image & video slider with parallax and the option to choose between full responsiveness and a fixed / responsive height. with fade in/out elements animations, and slide/fade transitions. also, for each slide you can choose if the header should be dark or light, set different positions for the graphic and text, choose different animation for the graphic (flip or fade), fully control the titles and texts (size, color, fonts, line-height, weight, shadow), set custom color for the navigation, set an overlay pattern image for video… easy-to-use powerful admin interface – bridge comes with an extremely intuitive, easy-to-use admin interface. add unlimited sliders and slides while you are editing pages/posts/portfolios, add unlimited portfolio images or videos while editing your portfolio items, add unlimited parallax sections to any page, customize typography styles, upload multiple logo versions, and much more. take complete control over your website. auto update – sick of manually updating your wordpress theme via ftp? we’ve made sure you won’t have to ever again. update bridge with the click of a button using the envato toolkit. yith woocommerce quick view & yith woocommerce wishlist plugin compatibility – thanks to the yith woocommerce quick view the website visitors can easily check out the offered items and view product details with just a single mouse click. yith woocommerce wishlist, on the other hand, enables them to check the product availability and to add items to their wishlist. new quick links custom post type – make all your latest news and essential updates easily accessible at all times with the quick links functionality. fully customizable headers – choose between top and side positions for your header. the collection of 10 separate header types, each with its own set of options, is sure to satisfy your every need. each page can have it’s own custom header with a dark or light skin, and a different color and transparency. define styles for your menus, and turn on a side area, search functionality, header top, and fullscreen menu with the click of a button. fully customizable title area – choose between a responsive title image, parallax title image, zoom in/out title image and no image. show or hide each title area. choose the position of the title text. choose different types of animations: animate the text, animate the whole title area or no animation. choose colors, separators & much more. apply those settings on a global or page specific level. fully customizable mega menu – customize both the standard and mobile menu, create wide or normal sub-menus at the same time, choose wide menu layout with or without icons. add widgets to one of the columns of the wide menu and create any layout you want. create awesome one-page web sites using anchors in the menu. left menu – choose a left menu instead of the top header and create beautiful portfolio websites. view an example of a left menu website by clicking on live preview. you can make it transparent (text will have dark/light skin variations on each slide change). you can choose a background image to fit the whole left menu area. all of that on a global or per page level. fullscreen menu – easily enable the beautiful fullscreen menu which opens when you click on the 3-bar (hamburger) icon in the header (if enabled). you can also upload a separate logo version to appear in the full screen menu. section video background – add full width video backgrounds to sections and set different pattern images for each section. fixed header – you can set header to be fixed, and set it to shrink on page scroll. sticky header – you can set header to be sticky and control the scroll amount (relative to the top of the page) at which the sticky header will appear. if there is a slider on the page, then the height of the slider is the default “scroll amount” for the appearance of the sticky header. sticky header with menu on bottom – same as the sticky header, the only difference is that the menu is on the bottom of the header with a different layout different logo versions – different logo versions for initial and sticky headers, as well as for dark and light header skins, the mobile menu, and more. qode search field – you can turn the search functionality on/off. when the search is enabled a search button will be displayed on the right side of menu. choose from a collection of search types. content / section menu – this menu is built from page rows/sections. content menu allows creation of one page websites, or pages with their own separate navigation. footer – choose from 1 to 4 columns in the footer, and set it to be with “unfold” functionality or regular ajax animations on/off – choose between 4 fluid ajax animated transitions between pages for a creative experience, or turn ajax off to create a classic website. besides the predefined animations, create your own scenario by choosing separate animation types for each page individually. css3 animations – choose from our collection of fluid css3 animations, carefully designed for a smooth and seamless experience. wpbakery page builder for wordpress ($46 value) included free – the drag-and-drop wpbakery page builder for wordpress will save you tons of time working on your site content. now you’ll be able to create complex layouts within minutes! layerslider responsive wordpress slider plugin ($25 value) included free – create a responsive (mobile friendly) or fullwidth slider with must-see-effects slider revolution responsive wordpress plugin ($29 value) included free – build modern and responsive slider presentations quickly and with ease. to learn more about what you can achieve with the slider revolution, check out the extensive slider revolution tutorial timetable responsive schedule for wordpress plugin ($26 value) included free – create a beautiful timetable view of your events in minutes bonus parallax pages – bridge comes with an amazing bonus feature – easy to create parallax pages, perfect for presentations, microsites or a new homepage. woocommerce ready – bridge comes with complete support for the woocommerce e-commerce plugin, which enables you to sell your products online. style your shop pages easily through our admin interface. interactive elements – counters, pie charts, horizontal progress bars, icon progress bars, elements with animation, graph charts, and more. custom post formats – bridge supports the following custom blog post formats: standard, gallery, link, quote, video, audio qode carousel – a full-width carousel slider plugin. perfect for displaying your clients, or for any other presentational purpose. portfolio – choose between 7 different portfolio single layouts and 7 different portfolio list layouts. set a desired number of columns for each portfolio list, and choose one of our amazing portfolio list hover animation types. blog layouts – choose the best look for your blog. bridge comes with a large collection of blog layouts, all carefully crafted and easy to add to any page. blog masonry layout – make your blog page display in an amazing masonry layout blog vertical loop layout – a full page blog layout that cycles through posts with the click of a button. one page sites – easily add one page navigation to your homepage, or to multiple pages on your website. use anchor links to connect menu items to various sections, and tell your story with style. full screen sections layout – create full screen sections with bullet navigation and scroll through functionality. vertical split screen sections – the vertical split screen shortcode allows you to create an amazing layout that resembles a vertical slider. split the screen into two sections, and combine useful information with eye-catching images. landing page – use the landing page template to notify users about maintenance, or build pre-launch anticipation and buzz around your website. add custom styles – no need to wallow through lines of code just to add your own custom css. we’ve embedded a custom css field in the qode options panel to make your life easier. retina ready – bridge includes high resolution icons. with bridge your website will look awesome on high density retina displays and high resolution screens. smooth scroll – this theme includes an option to set smooth scroll on/off (for chrome and opera browsers) multiple sidebars – create unlimited custom sidebars and choose them on a global or post/page level side menu – bridge comes with an side menu widget area, with an invisible scroller implemented. also, it automatically closes after a certain amount of scroll or when the close button is clicked. gravity forms css – use the most popular premium forms plugin with our theme. contact form 7 css – use the most popular free forms plugin with our theme. fully customizable google maps add google maps to your pages and customize their style to match your website aesthetic. add multiple addresses and custom map pins. masonry gallery with the masonry gallery you can create a stunning layout of links that lead to any page on your website. add background images, buttons, text, and more to each masonry gallery item. modern, professional design – this theme is designed by a team of professional designers focused on user-experience and unique design style. fully responsive – bridge is a fully responsive wordpress theme and works perfectly on all screen sizes and mobile devices. extremely customizable – unlimited colors and sizes for all elements, 600+ google fonts, and a robust backend offer a solution for a variety of business or personal uses. flexible layout – use one of our demo layouts or create your own visually different experience using our modular shortcodes and feature-rich backend. modular shortcodes – get creative with unlimited combinations of easy-to-use shortcodes and quickly create any type of page you like. passepartout border – add a border around your website and make it look like a beautifully framed image. the passepartout functionality comes with an extensive set of options to customize it to your needs. 3 icon packs – why be satisfied with just one set of icons when you can have three! choose between the font awesome, font elegant, and linea icon packs. social – enable social media icons and easy share functionality with the click of a button. use the available social media icons or upload your own. parallax layers – use the parallax layers shortcode to create amazing multilayered sections that follow the movement of the mouse. one-click demo import – import whole demo content, and set up your web site to look just like any of our demo examples in one click wpml ready – fully compatible with the wpml multilingual plugin – create multilingual web sites rtl ready – rtl languages support translation ready – bridge is fully prepared for translation to any language using po & mo files search engine optimized – search engines will easily index any page of your website because of the integrated search engine support. set meta keywords and description for each individual page and increase seo ranking. perfect code – coded in html5, ccs3 and jquery, this skillfully constructed theme is 100% valid. modular contact page – bridge comes with a predefined contact page template. you can set any combination using google maps, a contact form and regular content. child theme ready – create your own child theme by starting from the included dummy child theme. professional and fast support – our support team can’t wait to help you. just submit a ticket to our support forum and one of our highly professional and expertly trained support consultants will be there to lend a hand five star support whenever you have an issue with our theme or wordpress in general, we are here to assist you. visit the qode interactive help center. there you can browse our knowledge base, or submit a ticket request to our support. here is the ever growing list of bridge demos: bridge original business agency estate light urban fashion cafe one page modern university winery restaurant construct portfolio masonry vintage creative business catalog portfolio minimalist dark parallax split screen avenue portfolio pinterest health flat wireframe denim mist architecture small brand creative parallax minimal simple blog pinterest blog studio contemporary art chocolaterie branding collection creative vintage coming soon simple coming soon creative lawyer health blog photography split screen agency one page fashion shop company wellness case study design studio digital agency organic jazz wedding jeans innovation travel blog passepartout graphic studio cupcake sunglasses shop kids animals photo studio urban fashion marine interior design bar & grill brewery corporate office paper simple photography furniture skin care rustic cargo creative photography construction campaign dim sum flat company photography portfolio charity handmade telecom black-and-white pets designer personal modern business contemporary company communication blog slider fashion photography urban shop cv standard split screen left menu initially hidden left menu with background image left menu blog with slider masonry gallery short slider angled sections grid elegant slider full screen sections shop grid shop wide one page site dark border portfolio with left menu portfolio pinterest style shop with left menu photo slider blog in grid blog pinterest style video slider blog loop app showcase creative agency construction company modern restaurant wedding announcement online agency rock band craftsman corporation modern photography illustrator portfolio urban store vibrant portfolio photography tiles freelance designer clothing store urban studio masonry shop fullscreen shop photographer designer portfolio tech showcase metro blog nature blog modern blog creative blog minimal blog fashion blog lifestyle blog chequered blog headlines blog tech blog photography parallax bauhaus illustrator maintenance mode agency minimal conference 3d artist developer web agency ux/ui design digital product showcase sportswear interior decoration boutique summer shop furniture shop leather shop minimal shop tiled shop digital startup skater bicycle brand fashion agency biker club artist portfolio hipster agency barber photo gallery skate shop outdoors jazz bar hosting architect studio child care startup resume law firm organic market watch store travel agency consulting yoga studio spa center modern furniture church life coach crossfit mosque pet sanctuary car dealership business consultant university ii dentist transport football vacation rental ui design company city listing music magazine restaurant and bar business report business conference global business financial business construction showcase attorney clean energy startup summit app launch app presentation winter sports smoothie bar yoga center beer showcase plumber hair salon freelancer bakery running club beauty center seo company babysitter wedding planner florist designer expo music festival moving company burger place urban dance vineyard technology pole dance nightclub running orchestra factory writer museum art gallery medical recording studio mountain biking agriculture coworking space bar startup company frozen yogurt video production soap movie optician italian restaurant temple wedding invitation hi-fi tea renewable energy laboratory business consulting fitness interior decor pottery gardening human resources wedding invitation card candidate wildlife ngo explorer psychotherapy recipes nutritionist bike rental dental clinic it conference 3d modeling horse riding barbershop loan company architectural firm web studio law office software development gym makeup artist gaming photographer portfolio golf laundry service tiles handicraft casino airline craft beer bar film director tech support kindergarten tailor sushi bar jewelry store web hosting university iii tattoo studio vcard wristwatch shop gift shop language school floristry bicycle shop asian cuisine jazz club animal shelter musician ecology interactive agency creative studio pizza parlor freelancer portfolio environmental organization kids fashion fashion store boxing gym urban wear alternative band drone studio digital studio matcha new album release fast food pet shop travel cryptocurrency pop music magazine smartphone store water plant spa & wellness nail salon educational center trendy blog creative office backpacks mountain climbing developer portfolio jewelry designer presentation beachwear store exotic travels tv set showcase delivery photo app climbing club organic food store fitness tracker catering chocolate + more to come show more show less more items by qode view author portfolio regular license regular license selected $59 use, by you or one client, in a single end product which end users are not charged for. the total price includes the item price and a buyer fee. extended license selected $2950 use, by you or one client, in a single end product which end users can be charged for. the total price includes the item price and a buyer fee. view license details regular license extended license $59 included: quality checked by envato included: future updates included: theme hosting offer included: 6 months support from qode what does support include? extend support to 12 months $17.63 get it now and save up to $23.50 price is in us dollars. price displayed excludes sales tax. add to cart buy now power elite author qode view portfolio 132,915 sales 21,961 comments item rating: 4.78 stars 4.78 average based on 5978 ratings. (more information) 5 star 87% 87% 4 star 8% 8% 3 star 1% 1% 2 star 1% 1% 1 star 1% 1% last update 27 march 20 created 3 april 14 gutenberg optimized yes high resolution yes widget ready yes compatible browsers ie10, ie11, firefox, safari, opera, chrome, edge compatible with elementor, visual composer 5.1.x, woocommerce 3.8.x, woocommerce 3.7.x, woocommerce 3.6.x, woocommerce 3.5.x, woocommerce 3.4.x, woocommerce 3.3.x, woocommerce 3.2.x, woocommerce 3.1.x, woocommerce 3.0.x, wpbakery page builder 5.7.x, wpbakery page builder 5.6.x, wpbakery page builder 5.5.x, wpbakery page builder 5.4.x, wpbakery page builder 5.3, wpbakery page builder 5.2.x, wpbakery page builder 5.1.x, wpml software version wordpress 5.3.x, wordpress 5.2.x, wordpress 5.1.x, wordpress 5.0.x, wordpress 4.9.x, wordpress 4.8.x, wordpress 4.7.x, wordpress 4.6.1, wordpress 4.6, wordpress 4.5.x, wordpress 4.5.2, wordpress 4.5.1, wordpress 4.5 themeforest files included php files, css files, js files columns 4+ documentation well documented layout responsive tags agency, blog, business, corporate, creative, creative agency, design agency, ecommerce, elementor, listing, multipurpose, one page, photography, portfolio, woocommerce © all rights reserved qode contact the envato market help team deliver better projects faster. web, design & video assets unlimited downloads, from $16.50/month effortless design and video. made online by you. smart templates ready for any skill level. designers matched perfectly to you on envato studio 2000 artists ready to undertake your work quick links explore popular categories web themes & templates portfolio wordpress themes business wordpress themes wordpress hosting portfolio website templates responsive website templates video after effects templates apple motion templates video effects free video stock footage stock footage audio royalty free music sound effects best selling royalty free music logic pro files background music code wordpress plugins php script javascript css templates prestashop plugins graphics logo templates business card templates lightroom presets serif fonts free art & illustration images photos food stock photos animal stock photos tech stock photos fitness stock photos nature stock photos design maker logo maker business card maker t-shirt maker banner maker flyer maker video maker intro maker slideshow maker instagram story video maker promo video maker teaser video maker elements wordpress themes stock images website templates logos fonts tuts+ photoshop tutorials javascript tutorials wordpress tutorials free online tutorials free coding tutorials envato market terms licenses market api become an affiliate help themes and templates authors help center join our community community blog forums meetups 58,513,582 items sold $810,271,392 community earnings about envato careers privacy policy sitemap all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax © 2020 envato pty ltd. trademarks and brands are the property of their respective owners. by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax