skip to main content university of wisconsin–madison uw crest department of philosophy menu open menu close home about us expand collapse overview faculty achievements graduate student achievements department news contact information undergraduate expand collapse overview why study philosophy? major declaration requirements & policies undergraduate scholarships study abroad – warwick university graduate program expand collapse overview admissions faq how to apply to our grad program financial aid placement history uw-madison philosophy grad program statistics requirements & policies diversity statement uw-madison graduate school people expand collapse faculty staff graduate students events expand collapse colloquia and conferences evening of philosophy uw philosophers at work history of philosophy workshop reading groups events calendar courses expand collapse overview current and upcoming courses course archives undergraduate course descriptions graduate course descriptions alumni expand collapse overview alumni updates alumni giving wisconsin alumni association support the department why study philosophy? harry brighouse mildred fish harnack professor of philosophy and carol dickson bascom professor of the humanities (usc, ph.d. 1991) political philosophy, philosophy of education mhbrigho@wisc.edu 608-263-3700 5119 helen c. white professor brighouse regularly teaches classes in applied ethics, political philosophy, and ethics; and he teaches a class for the first year interest group program on children and the family, every 3 years. his research interests include all those topics, as well as philosophy of education; and he has an abiding interest in education (including higher education) policy and practice. his recent books include (with helen ladd, susanna loeb, and adam swift) educational goods: values and evidence in decision-making (university of chicago press 2018) and (with adam swift) family values: the ethics of parent-child relationships (princeton university press, 2014). he co-edited the aims of higher education: problems of morality and justice (university of chicago press, 2015) with michael mcpherson, which won the 2017 federic w ness award for the book contributing to our understanding of liberal education from the association of american colleges and universities. he directs the center for ethics and education, and is a regular contributor to the group blog crooked timber. his strangest accomplishment is an uncredited appearance in the ken loach movie bread and roses. web site. site footer content university logo that links to main university website related links uw philosophers at work undergraduate association of philosophy (ugap) socratic society – philosophy club philosophy tv contact us department of philosophy university of wisconsin–madison 5185 helen c. white hall 600 north park street madison, wi 53706 phone: 608-263-3700 fax: 608-265-3701 email: uwphilosophy@gmail.com feedback, questions or accessibility issues: wmay@wisc.edu. this site was built using the uw theme | privacy notice | © 2020 board of regents of the university of wisconsin system.