the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop news in brief british man astounded to hear how much it would cost to get mustard jar removed from rectum under u.s. healthcare system you may also like local global pandemic that has killed thousands giving woman just the push she needed to organize tupperware cabinet today 12:41pm local man reflects on cyclical nature of existence after learning mcdonald’s has stopped offering all-day breakfast once again yesterday 2:12pm local unpatriotic whiner demands ventilator yesterday 11:44am more from g/o media read on trump suggests ceding new york to coronavirus as possible appeasement strategy read on 10 photos of plus-size models we deserve a pat on the back for running read on deal alert: the federal government is cutting you a $1,200 stimulus check that you can, and should, spend exclusively on 75 copies of ‘stardew valley’ read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe yesterday 9:52am • see more: healthcare healthcarehealthnewsvol 56 issue 12 london—expressing surprise upon learning the high price of the commonplace procedure, local british man roger hiddleston was reportedly astounded friday to hear how much it would cost to extract a mustard jar from his rectum under the united states healthcare system. “when a mate of mine mentioned that it could cost hundreds if not thousands of pounds for something as routine as getting a container of colman’s mustard out of my sphincter, i was flabbergasted,” said hiddleston, telling reporters that the statistic was a stark example of the prohibitively high cost of medical care in the u.s. “it’s incredible to think that i could spend a week’s pay for something that would take the doctor less than five minutes to fix. and you know this means there must be countless americans walking around with mustard jars in their anuses, wincing in pain with every step, and they are completely unable to afford help. it’s a bloody disgrace.” hiddleston added that with the way things were going with the nhs, he could imagine a future where even in the u.k. he could face a hefty medical bill for stuffing objects into his orifices. advertisement share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion what’s in congress’ coronavirus stimulus bill 10 photos of plus-size models we deserve a pat on the back for running tom brady awakens from week-long kombucha bender to discover he’s a tampa bay buccaneer department of interior announces birds will continue going about regular bird activities during pandemic share tweet