australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 07:23 edt | updated 8 hours ago british prime minister boris johnson tests positive for coronavirus u.k. health secretary matt hancock has also tested positive. both leaders said they have mild symptoms. by lee moran, huffpost us british prime minister boris johnson and health secretary matt hancock both said they have tested positive for the coronavirus. in a video that johnson shared on social media friday morning, he revealed he had “developed mild symptoms” of covid-19 ― a temperature and a persistent cough ― and had “taken a test that has come out positive.” johnson said he was isolating himself at the prime minister’s official residence in downing street, london, which was “entirely the right thing to do.” “but be in no doubt that i can continue, thanks to the wizardry of modern technology, to communicate with all my top team to lead the national fightback against coronavirus,” added johnson, who was seated and wearing a tie and suit jacket as he spoke. over the last 24 hours i have developed mild symptoms and tested positive for coronavirus. i am now self-isolating, but i will continue to lead the government’s response via video-conference as we fight this virus. together we will beat this. #stayhomesavelivespic.twitter.com/9te6afp0ri — boris johnson #stayhomesavelives (@borisjohnson) march 27, 2020 hancock ― who alongside johnson has been a prominent figure in the government’s response to the pandemic ― announced his diagnosis via a video on social media. he said he would be self-isolating and working from home until thursday. “the symptoms so far have been very mild so i’ve been able to carry on with the work, driving forward the uk response,” hancock said. following medical advice, i was advised to test for #coronavirus. i‘ve tested positive. thankfully my symptoms are mild and i’m working from home & self-isolating. vital we follow the advice to protect our nhs & save lives#stayhomesavelivespic.twitter.com/tguwh6blij — matt hancock (@matthancock) march 27, 2020 downing street said earlier this week that british foreign secretary dominic rabb would lead the government if johnson contracted the virus and became too sick to fulfill his duties. it was unclear whether johnson’s fiancee carrie symonds, who is several months pregnant, is remaining in the official residence with johnson. johnson and his government have been criticized for their initial handling of the public health crisis, facing accusations that they were not taking the threat seriously. on march 3, johnson boasted about shaking hands with everybody during a visit to a hospital in which “there were a few coronavirus patients.” 'i was at a hospital where there were a few #coronavirus patients and i shook hands with everybody' says boris johnson. read the government's #covid19 plan: https://t.co/peze4jwf5ppic.twitter.com/mucbapssbp — sky news (@skynews) march 3, 2020 as the number of cases in the u.k. and world continued to rise, however, johnson struck a more somber tone, describing the pandemic as “the worst public health crisis in a generation.” following mounting pressure, johnson on monday finally ordered a nationwide three-week lockdown. “from this evening i must give the british people a very simple instruction – you must stay at home,” he said in a broadcast on the bbc. you must stay at home so we can protect the nhs and save lives. then we will beat this together. ➡️ https://t.co/6oxw2869hq#stayhomesavelivespic.twitter.com/rkulhvyk8l — uk prime minister (@10downingstreet) march 24, 2020 “if you don’t follow the rules, the police will have the powers to enforce them, including through fines and dispersing gatherings,” johnson warned. “the way ahead is hard, and it is still true that many lives will sadly be lost.” prince charles, the heir to the british throne, was confirmed to have contracted the coronavirus earlier this week. following charles’ diagnosis, buckingham palace announced that queen elizabeth ii “remains in good health.” palace sources said the queen last saw johnson on march 11. the queen on wednesday conducted her weekly audience with johnson via telephone: view this post on instagram a post shared by the royal family (@theroyalfamily) on mar 25, 2020 at 12:30pm pdt the u.k. has confirmed nearly 12,000 cases of covid-19 and 580 deaths. a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic why trump is wrong to compare coronavirus to the flu how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off got anxiety? here are 6 cheap mental health resources. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 12 zoom hacks for work meetings and virtual happy hours how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction lee moran reporter, huffpost more: politics coronavirus united kingdom boris johnson trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.