skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: broadband best high-speed internet providers of 2020 high-speed internet isn’t a necessity for everybody, and sometimes high-speeds just aren’t available in certain areas. many people can get by with satellite or mobile hotspots for basic web browsing, but for those of you who need it, fiber and cable internet provide more reliable connections, downlo… by freshome team on march 22, 2020 in broadband wow! internet plans bbernard/shutterstock about wow! wow! (also known as wide open west) offers cable, fiber and dsl internet, phone and television services for customers in nine states providing services to over 7 million people. you can find wow! internet in metropolitan areas like montgomery, al, chicago, il, detro… by freshome team on march 13, 2020 in broadband what is google fiber? piotr swat/shutterstock in the early 2000s, fiber-optic internet was not unheard of—verizon had first deployed its fios service in 2004… by the freshome.com team on march 13, 2020 in broadband find the best internet deals for your home internet everyone needs to access the internet these days, whether just to send emails or to connect multiple pcs, tablets and tvs in the household for gaming and live tv streaming. when selecting an internet service provider, your choices involve more than speed alone. internet providers also offer a wide r… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in broadband best internet in new york city find the best internet in new york city by comparing providers and prices. if you’re looking for the best internet providers in nyc, it’s not as simple as googling “internet service near me.” known as the big apple, new york city is home to eight major sports teams, including… by the freshome.com team on march 4, 2020 in broadband find cheap internet plans for your home internet adjust your computer for maximum comfort. image: shutterstock/artazum some internet providers are cheaper than others. their affordable price may be based on speed and data caps. some internet plans can be bundled with your phone service and tv service. however, once the promotional or introductory… by the freshome.com team on march 4, 2020 in broadband find internet providers in your area image: pikselstock/shuttershock if you are in the market for new internet service, you might be tempted to google, “internet providers near me.” while this can be a great place to start, it won’t tell you much about the different provider options and what they offer. everyone has different needs, so… by the freshome.com team on march 4, 2020 in broadband dsl internet if you are shopping around for high-speed internet, you are likely to be presented with three options: fiber optic, cable, and dsl (digital subscriber line). the three offer broadband services meaning that they are faster than the conventional dial-up options. in this post, we delve deeper into what… by the freshome.com team on march 4, 2020 in broadband fiber internet image: wavebreakmedia/shuttershock fiber internet is a type of broadband internet service. it works by fiber-optic cables converting to light electrical signals, carrying data and sending the light through transparent glass fibers roughly the size of a human hair, according to the north carolina dep… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in broadband common causes of wi-fi connectivity problems imagine settling in for the night to watch a few episodes of your favorite binge-worthy tv show when suddenly, your streaming service stops loading, and all you can do is watch the wi-fi go in and out, hoping the endless buffering stops soon. you might be gritting your teeth just… by freshome team on march 19, 2020 in broadband 1 2 3 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss