skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about budget recipes and easy meals – cooking from scratch by ricky willis | last updated 11th april 2019 | this post may contain affiliate links share tweet pin instead of turning to a jar when cooking, check out these budget recipes which are easy to cook, purse friendly and can be made from scratch in no time. i was a little surprised to read the other day that one in six british adults have never cooked a meal from scratch. now before having a family i never used to be a pro in the kitchen. i could do the odd thing to keep me alive and could probably rustle up a meal if i had to impress someone, but this figure really surprises me. co-operative food carried out this research last year on 2,000 people and found that they are turning to packets or jars to finish off their meal in the evening at least four nights a week, instead of using store cupboard basics. plus, two thirds are using ready made food instead of using their owns spices and fresh ingredients. top 20 cheat meals skint mum was talking to a few of her colleagues at work about our simple bolognese recipe and a few of them said that they had always used a jar to make it – how else was it done?! she gave them a quick overview of the recipe, which they tried, then had feedback that it went well and that they would be using it again. the study also uncovered the top 20 meals that us british don’t give a second thought to cheating at. we eat at lot of the top 20 cheat meals – but made from scratch – over the course of a month and many of them are firm family favourites. in fact, i wouldn’t even think of getting a jar or packet of sauce to make even one of these dishes. some families may not have all the ingredients to hand straight away but by adding a few basic food products to the weekly shopping basket, it’s easy to fill the cupboard with real food, that is easy and can be quick to cook with and what will save you a packet! (excuse the pun). budget recipes instead of cheating, take a look at the easy and family friendly, budget recipes below so you can make them from scratch yourself: fajitas spaghetti bolognese lasagne chicken curry stir fry chilli con carne enchiladas pasta bake pizza sausage casserole chicken casserole spaghetti carbonara cottage pie shepherd’s pie burritos coq au vin meatballs and tagliatelle macaroni cheese beef stew beef stroganoff cooking from scratch some of the other things that came out of the survey are: 43% of people are more concerned that the meal tastes good than how healthy, how cheap or how filling it is 24 minutes is the average time to prepare an evening meal 44% of people cheat when having people over at weekends – then say they did it all themselves and to make the cheat more realistic, they’ll sprinkle herbs on worktops and have a tea towel over their shoulder when greeting guests – great tip if you need it! rather than giving more tips to help you cheat yourself to a more expensive and unhealthy dinner, i’m going share with you how i make some of the top cheat meals from the list above. my recipes are easy to do, don’t take too much preparation, are from store cupboard basics and don’t cost the earth. looking for more inspiration to cook meals that don’t break the bank. there are loads of budget-friendly recipes over on skint chef. if you’re getting peckish and what to try out some other budget recipes, check out my fakeaways here. ricky willis ricky willis is the original skint dad. a money-making enthusiast, father, and husband to naomi. he is always looking for unique ways to earn a little extra. skintdad.co.uk/ * to ensure skint dad remains completely free to use, this post may contain affiliate links. contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about