skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me category: budgeting how i afford to travel full-time the single most popular question i get is “how can you afford to travel?” i must answer this question in one way or another about 20 times everyday… so this blog post is long overdue! keep reading to find out all my tips, tricks and secrets for how i afford to travel full-time. my goal in writing […] read more… posted in budgeting, travel83 comments what’s in my bag? a complete list after visiting 85 countries over the last 4 years, it’s safe to say i’ve mastered the art of packing. i get a lot of questions about how to pack for trips, or what i bring with me on a long journey away from home. so, i thought i’d lay out all my strategies for you in this blog […] read more… posted in budgeting, travel19 comments how i can afford to travel the single most popular question i get from my followers is: “how can you afford to travel?” and i’ve literally written thousands of emails, tweets and instagram responses, all giving the exact same answers to this question. no, i am not rich. no, i don’t have rich parents. and no, i don’t have a huge savings […] read more… posted in budgeting3 comments categories blog in korea blogging budgeting golf popular snapchat stories social stories tips travel videos recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.