/ thom dunn / 6:30 am fri mar 27, 2020 build your own bagpipes out of a trash bag and record and learn to play in quarantine follow us twitter / facebook / rss instructables.com has some new instructions on how to build your own bagpipes, and all you need is: 1 garbage bag or large plastic bag 2 recorders (or 2 pvc recorders:https://www.instructables.com/id/pvc-recorder/) 2 pens (you can also use a decent sized straw or a piece of hose) scissors tape it sounds a little ridiculous, but when you break it down, bagpipes are basically just a recorder with a drone with an attached airbag. as long as you're social distancing, you can imagine yourself standing atop the grassy peaks of the highlands, where your diy garbage bagpipes can be heard all across the land, undoubtedly pleasing your neighbors to no end. i know what i'm doing this weekend. how to make bagpipes out of a garbage bag and recorders [instructables.com] image: public domain via pxfuel share / tweet / 17 comments bagpipes / diy / diy projects / garbage bags / instruments / musical instruments get the boing boing newsletter keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest coronavirus: disneyland resort and walt disney world resort 'closed until further notice' on friday, disney announced that disneyland resort and walt disney world resort will remain closed until further notice. read the rest watch white house coronavirus official dr. birx suck up to dear leader obsequiously “[trump is] so attentive to the scientific literature & the details & the data. i think his ability to analyze & integrate data that comes out of his long history in business has really been a real benefit.” read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support