skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more business development build a business that works from the inside out businesses that are built to last are devoted to sound business models, strong operating methods, serious financial discipline, careful attention to culture, mature leadership aptitudes, and more. we all love marketing. it's an essential function within any business. but it's just one piece of the puzzle. to succeed with any startup, more business disciplines need to be developed. we're talking about skillsets including business modeling, strategic planning, cash flow management, team building, culture development, and fundraising—just to name a few. such business development disciplines aren't nearly as glamorous as social media or influencer marketing, though they possess an inward beauty all their own. more importantly, they prove time and again to be the real make-or-break dynamics in any business that aspires to find stability, operate sustainably, and scale responsibly. we're excited to explore these subjects as a major new branch in our educational content. there's a lot of ground to cover. we'll traverse these topics across our in-depth guides, online courses, podcast shows, and more. this page exists to serve as basecamp for all things business development here at spi. below, you'll find: our inaugural business development guide, the spi guide to business fundamentals popular podcast episodes that touch on various inner workings of business dynamics a beginners course on rooting your business model in a clearly defined market with a validated idea the one business platform we absolutely, positively could not exist without our free guides are up first. check those out and let us know what you think. we look forward to hearing your feedback! and we can't wait to publish more content on business development disciplines soon. free guides guides to showcase what it's really like to run a business when you're ready to develop more than just marketing skills, our guides on business development will be waiting. view all learning topics business development spi's epic guide to business fundamentals "your blog is not your business." if, like pat and me, you started looking to the internet in the late… 8 chapters start here courses courses to develop your business sense and skills take advantage of our popular online courses to accelerate your education as a business-savvy entrepeneur. view all courses smart from scratch® how to find a winning business idea & land your first customer in the wake of covid-19 hardship, spi media is waiving the cost of this course for a limited time. free for a limited time by pat flynn learn more articles good reads about dynamics at the core of business these articles will take you into the inner workings of various businesses, including spi, to reveal how they work. view all articles on business development how to start an online business discover how to start an online business, including figuring out your “why,” identifying your target market, and building a brand and website! here's a sneak peek behind the curtain of how spi operates take a sneak peek behind the curtains of how spi operates, from our core values and mission to management to business systems and tools for performance. 20 entrepreneurs reveal their first hire story: how & when they grew their team take your business to the next level by making your first hire! learn from 20 entrepreneurs who reveal their first hire story today on the blog! 10 timeless business lessons i learned during my 7-year agency career (and why i sold mine) matthew gartland, cfo and coo at spi, shares 10 timeless business lessons, from the importance of your people and culture to why ideas alone don't make a business. what to do when “all of the good ideas are already taken”—tips to help you pick a niche—updated! if you're feeling overwhelmed by the amount of niches out there, don't worry. this post takes you through the niche selection tips you need to get started in your business. how to make passive income online (3 business models) – updated! i've been building businesses since 2008 and have generated over $5m in earnings. in this post, i’ll distill what i’ve learned into three passive income business models you can choose from. recommended tool gusto gusto makes running our spi business a breeze. it starts with payroll, which is critical to get right for a growing business. we also use gusto for benefits administration, paid time off (pto) tracking, feedback surveys, important document retention, and more. oh, and their concierge support team is dynamite. try gusto $ this is an affiliate link podcasts podcast episodes all about business development enjoy this sampling of spi podcast episodes that cover a range of important business development topics—from operations to bootstrapping to leadership and more. smart passive income podcast with pat flynn weekly interviews, strategy, and advice for building your online business the smart way. subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast60+ million downloads november 6, 2019 spi 396: not so fun business stuff (but in a fun way) august 14, 2019 spi 384: an essay to all entrepreneurs, business owners, and marketers may 1, 2019 spi 369: top 5 major business mistakes entrepreneurs make january 16, 2019 spi 354: the next big steps in business—with matt gartland from team flynn december 14, 2016 spi 244: bootstrapping a startup with nathan barry from convertkit more episodes want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less