home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » build it diy house number planter box march 11, 2020 domestically creative leave a comment it's important to have house numbers displayed on your home, especially if emergency crews need to locate your house. today i'll show you how to build your own diy house number planter box. diy house number planter box when we moved into our home in the fall of 2018, i had no … [read more...] build it, crafts, decor, decorating, diy how to waterproof floors in any room march 4, 2020 brittany bailey leave a comment today we're prepping to tile in the kitchen and bathrooms. having seen firsthand how much damage water can cause to a home, i want to show you this tutorial for waterproofing floors in any room! waterproofing floors in any room renovations are finally moving forward at millie's … [read more...] build it, home maintenance, repair, tile, tutorial tips & tricks to self-level a floor at millie’s remodel february 21, 2020 brittany bailey leave a comment after demolition, i realized several water leaks left some low spots in the kitchen floor at millie's remodel. today i’m going show you how to use self-leveler to fix a sagging floor. i’ll also show you a few tools you’ll find helpful when pouring self leveler. tips & … [read more...] build it, renovation, repair diy drawer in a drawer february 19, 2020 in her garage 2 comments have you ever wanted to maximize the space in one of your drawers? do you have a drawer that acts like a black hole? learn how to build a diy drawer in a drawer and watch your organizational dreams come true. diy drawer in a drawer hi! this is kristen from in her garage, and … [read more...] build it, organizational tips diy reversible wooden sign october 9, 2019 domestically creative leave a comment diy reversible wooden sign on a pedestal base this is an easy project to create for any season! make your very own fall/christmas reversible wooden sign on a pedestal base with this easy tutorial. the top is made with a scrap 2x4, while the pedestal base is assembled from a few … [read more...] build it, crafts how to build decorative gable attic vents september 16, 2019 brittany bailey 1 comment how to build decorative gable attic vents when i purchased the saving etta house (a triple-a construction house built in 1900), i fell in love with the decorative gable attic vent shape at first sight. the little diamonds decorating each gable had my heart skipping a beat, even … [read more...] build it two ways to install a ceiling hook for plants september 11, 2019 domestically creative 1 comment two ways to install a ceiling hook for plants there are a few different methods to install a ceiling hook to hang a plant from, but this post is going to cover two of them. the first method involves finding a joist, and the second method uses a toggle bolt. don't let the words … [read more...] build it, decorating diy his and hers towel hooks august 14, 2019 domestically creative 1 comment diy his and hers towel hooks if you are short on space, add some extra storage and personality to your home with these customizable diy his and hers towel hooks. no stencil or die cut machine required with this easy font transfer method. this project was born out of … [read more...] build it 30 creative craft room builds you can diy july 10, 2019 domestically creative leave a comment 30 creative craft room builds you can diy is your home office or craft room in desperate need of some storage? don't spend a ton of money on brand new furniture or custom closet organizers when you can build it yourself. check out these creative craft room builds that you can … [read more...] build it, diy diy modern house number sign june 19, 2019 megan taylor leave a comment diy modern house number sign a step-by-step tutorial on how to create a diy modern house number sign that will update your homes curb appeal. do you want to update your homes curb appeal? have you thought about upgrading the look of your homes house numbers? i'm megan from … [read more...] build it, diy, do it yourself diy american flag planter box june 12, 2019 domestically creative 1 comment diy american flag planter box want to add a little bit of a patriotic flair to your summer porch or patio? this diy american flag planter box is so simple to make from start to finish, you can easily create one for yourself. i've been slowly adding patriotic pieces, like this … [read more...] build it, gardening, landscaping & gardening diy wooden bath tray with phone holder may 29, 2019 sheri leave a comment diy wooden bath tray with phone holder are you looking to add some beautiful functionality to your bathroom? this diy wooden bath tray (with phone holder) is the perfect addition! it turns a plain bath tub into the perfect place to relax and unwind. i'm sheri from hazel + gold … [read more...] bathroom, build it, diy, gift ideas bathroom, diy, tutorial, wood projects make your own “living blinds” may 15, 2019 lara the unprofessional leave a comment make your own "living blinds" looking for privacy or a way to decorate dormer windows? look no further, because today i'm going to show you how to make these bohemian style living blinds! i have two dormers in my house and styling them is a challenge because the space is so … [read more...] build it, uncategorized quick and easy diy fan trellis april 24, 2019 lara the unprofessional leave a comment quick and easy diy fan trellis every spring i find myself making a new fan trellis to replace my worn, weathered and rotting trellis that was left out over winter. this year, i am going to use the right materials (cedar and exterior screws) to allow me more than one season's … [read more...] build it, gardening, landscaping & gardening how to build a reclaimed wood sliding barn door april 5, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments how to build a reclaimed wood sliding barn door earlier this week when i showed you the master bedroom in the saving etta house, you probably noticed the sliding barn door. i am in love with that door and especially excited that i was able to salvage the old bead board and … [read more...] build it, saving etta, video tool belt hack for petite builders or kids march 20, 2019 lara the unprofessional 1 comment tool belt hack for petite builders or kids if you are serious about diying, then a tool belt is a necessity. unfortunately, tool belts are not exactly one-size-fits-all. if you are on the puny side of the size spectrum, you will be hard-pressed to find a belt that hangs where … [read more...] accessories, build it, diy tools 1 2 3 … 16 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok