about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews a parent’s guide to pregnancy pregnancy is a huge deal. growing a baby in your belly is a magical experience, no doubt, but it’s also a time that can be fraught with worry and fear. especially, once you start googling! here at wetheparents, our aim is to help keep your pregnancy simple. now, i’m guessing that most of your questions fall into two camps: what pregnancy bits to i need to get? what are the healthiest lifestyle choices? my husband, keane, and i have been through it twice, so we’ve got a pretty good idea of what pregnancy gear you will and won’t need. plus, i’m a self-confessed research nerd with a library of pregnancy health books. together, with a community of real parents, we’re here to pass on everything we’ve learned. we’re not doctors! but we are a diverse bunch of moms and dads who want to share the love, along with practical tips and tricks we’ve picked up along the way. our hope is to save you hours of trawling the internet getting freaked out by questionable advice. okay, mamma (and pappa), let’s get straight to the good stuff…. pregnancy health linea nigra: is it normal? the 7 best quality postpartum pads to buy (avoid the cheap ones!) is bleeding after sex a sign of pregnancy? best postpartum girdles of 2020 (tame your tummy) the best prenatal vitamins you can buy over the counter best stretch mark creams of 2020 (shed your stripes) best pregnancy tests in 2020 reliable and fast) pregnancy clothes & gear the best maternity swimsuit the 15 best nursing bras to buy in 2020 the few bits of pregnancy gear you actually need top 3 maternity belts vs top 3 belly bands of 2020 the best maternity pants to buy in 2020 best pregnancy pillows of 2020 (because you’re worth it!) giving birth natural induction methods: examining the evidence doulas: 17 science-backed benefits the power of positive birthing affirmations (infographic) 10 reasons why hypnobirthing is for you 5 reasons it’s great to have older siblings at the birth 10 positive and inspiring birthing videos: release the fear! wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest