get inspired bob’s epic adventure – all about my 7 month journey classic backpacker favorites sleep less, dream more stories – unusual accommodations make a plan travel tips and tricks money matters – travel budget & costs travel gear and more travel the world central america and the caribbean cuba ecuador guatemala mexico asia cambodia china india indonesia iran japan jordan georgia korea kyrgyzstan laos mongolia myanmar philippines singapore sri lanka tajikistan tibet thailand turkey vietnam europe austria belgium denmark estonia finland greece iceland luxembourg netherlands poland russia spain africa ethiopia kenya morocco namibia madagascar south africa sudan uganda zimbabwe zambia south america argentina bolivia chile colombia ecuador peru pacific usa nederlands search about bob contact bob work with bob in the media bunch of backpackers get inspired bob’s epic adventure – all about my 7 month journey classic backpacker favorites sleep less, dream more stories – unusual accommodations make a plan travel tips and tricks money matters – travel budget & costs travel gear and more travel the world central america and the caribbean cuba ecuador guatemala mexico asia cambodia china india indonesia iran japan jordan georgia korea kyrgyzstan laos mongolia myanmar philippines singapore sri lanka tajikistan tibet thailand turkey vietnam europe austria belgium denmark estonia finland greece iceland luxembourg netherlands poland russia spain africa ethiopia kenya morocco namibia madagascar south africa sudan uganda zimbabwe zambia south america argentina bolivia chile colombia ecuador peru pacific usa nederlands what's new? is this the best mountaineering backpack? review osprey mutant 52 liters bob - jul 20, 2019 3 this time i wasn't looking for a classic backpack, but i was on the hunt for a great mountaineering backpack to use on my 'c1 basic mountaineering course' in the austrian alps. to be... read more guide to hiking the tatra mountains in poland bob - jun 23, 2019 2 hiking the tatra mountains, poland - this year it was one of the coldest, snowiest and most whimsical may's in decades. the trails in the tatra mountains were still largely covered in a thick layer of... read more nine reasons to visit the tatra mountains in poland! bob - jun 17, 2019 4 tatra mountains in poland - "i had no idea that poland looked like this!", quite a few people responded to my photos of the tatra mountains. and to be honest, for a long time i... read more backpacking georgia (the country): itinerary, highlights and tips bob - apr 16, 2019 4 georgia - in 2018, one of the most popular dutch television shows 'widm' was shot in georgia (the country, not the state), which resulted in a rise of dutch travelers to georgia. although i... read more responsible travel gear: fjällräven bob - mar 5, 2019 4 in recent years, my travels became more adventurous, more off-the-beaten-track and more focused on outdoor activities. for example, in these last two years, i hiked the fann mountains in tajikistan, trekked the georgian caucasus... read more you may like: money matters: how much does it cost to backpack in sudan?... bob - feb 19, 2018 12 did you know sudan has more pyramids than egypt? no? i didn't know either. however, during my latest trip i discovered sudan has many incredible... freaky, geeky japan: 11 quirky things to do for travelers bob - feb 16, 2015 22 dressed in a french maid uniform, a young, pretty japanese girl with long brown-dyed hair kneels next to our table: "what can i get you,... introducing yonderbound, the social approach to hotel bookings bob - mar 17, 2015 7 as a backpacker i usually just show up at an accommodation. i only use booking websites such as hostelworld.com or booking.com when i really... preparing for kenya: the best kenyan music! bob - may 11, 2014 13 bunch of backpackers selected the best kenyan music to get you in the mood for your trip to magical kenya! and if you're not... staying in a female capsule hotel in nagoya, japan bob - feb 5, 2015 3 even though capsule hotels were originally invented as cheap accommodations for japanese business men, who are too drunk to go home, they are rapidly... ten reasons why you should visit seoul. it is one of... bob - aug 7, 2013 0 forget tokyo. forget hong kong. bunch of backpackers will give you ten reasons why seoul is one of the coolest cities ever! and no, i'm... 3,825fanslike 11,314followersfollow 4,917followersfollow about bob welcome! i'm manouk, a travel writer and adventurer from the netherlands. despite being a medical doctor, i still haven't found a cure for my travel bug! so, i keep on exploring. i love the great outdoors, learning about different cultures and backpacking in offbeat destinations. i'm also slightly obsessed with mountain lakes. follow me for expert travel advice down to earth trip reports extraordinary adventures love, manouk. read more about me here! start reading now! recent posts is this the best mountaineering backpack? review osprey mutant 52 liters guide to hiking the tatra mountains in poland nine reasons to visit the tatra mountains in poland! backpacking georgia (the country): itinerary, highlights and tips responsible travel gear: fjällräven a modest guide to a surf camp in taghazout, morocco tags article in dutch (nederlands)backpacker favoritesbob's epic adventurebob tips and tricksboliviacentral asiachinaeastern africaeastern asiaethiopiageorgiagreeceiranjapankenyakyrgyzstanmiddle eastmyanmarnamibianorthern africanorthern americanorthern europepersonal storyperuphilippinespolaroidresponsible travelsilk roadsleep less dream moresolo travelsouth africasouth americasoutheastasiasouthern africasudantajikistanthailandthe netherlandstravel geartravel motivationusavietnamwestern europezambiazimbabwe bunch of backpackers (bob) is a popular dutch-english travel blog focusing on outdoor, adventure and cultural explorations. bob receives 15.000+ monthly website visitors and has over 20.000 social media followers. your adventure. make it count. proud member of bob’s favorites eight ethical dilemmas i encountered during my travels the ultimate sudan travel guide solo backpacking the silk road: an overview! it's all about the journeys! disclaimer / privacy statement © bunch of backpackers we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy edit with live css save write css or less and hit save. ctrl + space for auto-complete.