welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog edx welcomes anáhuac published on: aug 27, 2019 by johannes heinlein 3739 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are pleased to announce that universidad anáhuac, one of the top universities in mexico, has joined the edx global partner community. anáhuac’s mission is to contribute to the formation of future leaders that promote the development of people and society. the anáhuac university network is comprised of eight institutions that collectively offer more than 60 bachelor’s degrees and 200 graduate programs. anáhuac’s education model... read more about edx welcomes anáhuac 10 important ways analytical skills boost your resume published on: jul 15, 2019 by david mcpherson 53556 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post analytical skills say a lot about a person. in particular, they say a lot of things that are very attractive to an employer no matter what job position you hold. when you demonstrate an ability to analyze data and make informed recommendations, you quickly become an indispensable part of the team. you become the go-to person for helping making sense of the mountains of customer and... read more about 10 important ways analytical skills boost your resume the employability skills checklist published on: jul 10, 2019 by david mcpherson 34750 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we’ve taken 6 key employability skills and matched them with free online courses to help you build your resume and further your career. no matter what job you are applying for, possessing excellent skills in these 6 areas will help you stand out from the crowd and get hired. 1. communication skills excellent written and verbal communication skills are paramount to getting a job. reading... read more about the employability skills checklist why you need to add digital marketing skills to your resume published on: may 05, 2019 by justine goulart 21171 views 3 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post there’s no doubt about it, technology has changed the way we communicate and receive information. and because of this change, businesses have had to adapt the ways they communicate with their customers. today, consumers are in information overload and look to the internet to receive information about their favorite brands and companies. as a result, over the past few years, companies have largely shifted their... read more about why you need to add digital marketing skills to your resume 12 courses you can complete in 6 weeks or less! published on: mar 22, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 12744 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post 5 ways to communicate effectively at work published on: jun 08, 2017 by maggie sokolik 14066 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post there are thousands of books and websites that will tell you how to format a report, write a cover letter, or design a slide presentation. but, do you know how to communicate in a way that goes beyond the standard advice? here are a few tips to put you on the path to being a thoughtful communicator on the job. consider your audience. many writers... read more about 5 ways to communicate effectively at work leadership skills – essentials for success published on: jun 02, 2017 by sara reich 9008 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post leadership skills are increasingly important for anyone looking to advance their career. from working in teams, to communicating effectively, to making the right decisions — possessing these key leadership skills will set you up for success on the job. we have plenty of courses on edx that will help you become a better leader. the following courses offer you the opportunity to learn these essential skills... read more about leadership skills – essentials for success launch your startup: new courses in entrepreneurship and innovation published on: mar 29, 2017 by david mcpherson 23207 views 2 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post do you have an idea for a new business and need help getting started? or have you always wanted to launch a business but need help generating ideas? edx has exciting new entrepreneurship courses designed to help you tackle the key challenges of launching a startup, covering everything from idea creation and market research to developing a pitch and obtaining venture capital. check out the upcoming... read more about launch your startup: new courses in entrepreneurship and innovation a top analytics program in an affordable, flexible way published on: jan 11, 2017 by anant agarwal 20024 views 4 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post today, we are proud to announce that we are working with the georgia institute of technology on a new online master of science (oms) degree in analytics that will be offered for less than $10,000, a quarter of the cost of traditional on-campus programs. this top 10 ranked analytics program will be a multidisciplinary collaboration between the georgia tech’s college of engineering, college of computing... read more about a top analytics program in an affordable, flexible way entrepreneurship and business management micromasters programs to advance your career published on: dec 28, 2016 by justine goulart 6427 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post why study business? aside from business being the most popular field of study worldwide, particularly at the graduate level, gaining foundational business skills gives you the opportunity to advance your career in a variety of different companies and industries and in a variety of different roles, from accounting and finance, to marketing and advertising. also, salary expectations for those with a business degree rank the third... read more about entrepreneurship and business management micromasters programs to advance your career page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close