home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources category: business development read more business development / customer success / featured #122: vaibhav sahgal – head of growth at reddit – how to be a growth product leader by julio rodriguez on march 5, 2020 vaibhav sahgal is the head of growth at reddit, inc. which has 500 million unique users around the world. prior to this, he worked at zynga for 8 years as a product manager. he led… read more business development / featured #64: cristina cordova – head of business development at stripe by timur meyster on september 20, 2017 cristina cordova is not just a rockstar, but she also leads the business development team at stripe. she previously worked at tapulous (acquired by disney) and pulse (acquired by linkedin). having broad experience and knowledge… read more business development / community organizer / featured #41: kim han – biz dev deep dive: from tango to business development at square by timur meyster on april 14, 2017 growing up in taiwan for 17 years, kimberly han moved to seattle to go to college where she majored in psychology while minoring in dance. for majority of her adult life she was a professional… subscribe be the first to get the latest breaking into startups podcast updates, right to your inbox. we’ll never spam you. our guests came from: about us the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds.our mission is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. facebook twitter instagram © 2020 breaking into startups. privacy policy top join 1,055 other subscribers! email subscribe now we respect your privacy. join our newsletter today! stay updated with all the latest episodes, upcoming events & much more. hack reactor prep prepare for any coding bootcam (free) learn more no thanks!