business solutions provider : 1-800-815-8716 home about about us awards / certifications b2b services digital solutions mobile app development website designing amazon / ebay stores article / content writing digital / online marketing software support accounting quickbooks set up quickbooks support quickbooks consulting quickbooks accounting quickbooks merchant services business advisory business branding trademark & patent registration authority positioning business development b2b distribution / supply business sale business purchase b2b products accounting quickbooks enterprise quickbooks point of sale quickbooks desktop pro quickbooks desktop premier quickbooks online quickbooks accountant quickbooks payroll quickbooks mac software support microsoft office kaspersky defender pro norton anti virus awards award gallery media / press release csr blog contact $0.00 home about about us awards / certifications b2b services digital solutions mobile app development website designing amazon / ebay stores article / content writing digital / online marketing software support accounting quickbooks set up quickbooks support quickbooks consulting quickbooks accounting quickbooks merchant services business advisory business branding trademark & patent registration authority positioning business development b2b distribution / supply business sale business purchase b2b products accounting quickbooks enterprise quickbooks point of sale quickbooks desktop pro quickbooks desktop premier quickbooks online quickbooks accountant quickbooks payroll quickbooks mac software support microsoft office kaspersky defender pro norton anti virus awards award gallery media / press release csr blog contact $0.00 intuit quickbooks® reseller 20 - 40% limited time sale on select quickbooks products free installation with new products contact us for any quickbooks related issues b2b solutions customized solutions for business owners. business branding including social media, blogging, digital advertising. e-commerce help & trademark registration. product resourcing & procurement for wholesales & retailers. financing for eligible start ups. mobile app & website design affordable plans attractive layout dynamic and user friendly interface checkout now awards listen to "anjali chugh founder of cosmique global inc" on spreaker. services we provide a range of services, tailored to fit the demands and needs of our clients. business advisory cosmique global is a business advisory firm. we offer complete business building package to business owners. strategic planning – step by step process to set up a new business. strategies that are actually going to be effective in taking your business to the next level. in-person consultation and technical consulting included. own your brand. add credibility, authenticity and stability to your business. trademark registration services offered. read more quickbooks consulting as an intuit quickbooks reseller and proadvisor, our team is well-equipped to handle any and all quickbooks-related issues, including installation and activation of quickbooks software applications required to enhance your system performance. our experts are skilled in all quickbooks products, and our services are backed by a money-back guarantee. we also provide free installation with a purchase of new products. at cosmique global, we are a certified intuit quickbooks® reseller and business advisory firm. read more mobile app & web design as a business solutions provider, we offer high quality professional mobile app, web design and digital marketing services using the latest technology. we bring your ideas, concepts, and ideology to life by adding a full range of web applications to your website, such as an online store, social network, a custom extension or a content management system. from our store, you can also choose software to install on your electronic devices at home or office network. read more about us cosmique global is a business advisory firm, with it’s primary focus on business branding, trademark registration, website & mobile app design, and quickbooks consulting. we, at cosmique, offer a complete business building package to our clients. the package includes, but is not limited to, company incorporation, business branding, business sale & purchase, social media advertising & blogging, trademark & patent registration, resourcing & procurement of products, setting up e-commerce sites, quickbooks online consulting (including quickbooks accounting services) , website & mobile app development. read more articles 15 ways to banish negativity and embrace the positive in life forbes contributor – you attract the energy admin 18 december, 2019 getting the right message across: 12 ways to improve your professional writing skills forbes contributor- although you can learn ornamen admin 13 september, 2019 15 techniques businesses can use to ensure balanced employee-customer happiness forbes contributor- while customer satisfaction pl admin 25 july, 2019 we are a business advisory firm 5500 existing customers 4950 satisfied customers 90 customer resolution rate 365 working days creative side branding web design seo social media ppc email marketing if you want to build a long lasting business, owning a brand, and claiming exclusive rights to the use of such brand will be the most important step you take in that direction. you can own a brand by registering it federally with united states patent &amp; trademark office. by being certified as a registered owner of the brand, you explicitly notify the public that you have the exclusive rights to the use of such brand, and that no one else has the right to use it at any time in future. read more in today’s high paced tech-savy world, if you don’t have a website to showcase your products, you’re definitely losing a big chunk of revenue that could easily be yours. if you wish to build a long lasting business, the first thing you need to focus on is getting a great website, and a mobile app designed for your business. you can count on us for these services. statistically, 80 % of buying is done online, and 2/3rd of that buying is done via hand held devices. imagine how many customers you could reach via on online e-com portal! check out more details on web development company and mobile app development company pages. read more you might already have a great website showcasing your products and services, but it’s of no use to you unless you know how to bring visitors to your site. its not just the traffic that matters, but what generates revenue, and builds brand awareness, is the relevant traffic. you need those people to click on your site who need the kind of products that you sell. the only way to accomplish this feat is to get your website search engine optimized. read more for business owners, the social media platform has turned out to be a boon. you can leverage this platform for brand awareness and advertising your products &amp; services. with the advent of sites like fb, tw, linkedin, instagram, you have the ability to reach millions of people every day. low cost advertising, and eye-catchy business pages can give a significant boost to your business, provided you know how to use it to your advantage. read more pay per click (ppc) is a great way to get more traffic to your site, and that too within a few days, or even hours. while seo takes time to bring your site to first two pages of search engines, ppc gives you quick results. as tempting as it sounds, ppc can be a huge drain on your financial resources, if you don’t set up your campaign the way it is supposed to be. a slightest mistake can lead to your ad showing up in wrong places at wrong time, and attracting clicks from people who are not even interested in your products. read more social media and networking sites might be your first choice to engage with your audience, but you can’t completely ignore the importance of reaching out to people via email marketing. its always advisable to have a variety of channels to communicate with your prospects, and existing customers. besides, let’s not forget a significant segment of population which is still comfortable with the conventional email platform. read more software consulting at cosmique global, the health of your electronic devices is of great importance to us. take advantage of our pocket friendly deals, and install the software you need for your home and office network. business address – usa cosmique global inc 122, west, 27th st, fl 12, new york, ny 10001 1-800-815-8716 business address - india cosmique global biztech u-51/35 dlf – iii gurgaon 122002 emails for customer support- itsolutions@cosmiqueglobal.com for business inquiries- businesssolutions@cosmiqueglobal.com popular links subscribe testimonials csr blogs contact our products quickbooks enterprise quickbooks point of sale quickbooks pro quickbooks premier quickbooks online quickbooks accountant quickbooks payroll quickbooks for mac why cosmique global inc about us company incorporation business development b2b distribution & supply b2b purchase b2b sale why choose us testimonials refund & cancellations disclaimer privacy policy follow us download our app accept credit cards online copyright © cosmique global inc- all rights reserved | legal terms of use | sitemap welcome to our site! sign up for latest updates on business branding & digital solutions. subscibe now welcome to our site! sign up for latest updates on business branding & digital solutions. subscibe now