skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about business 2020 internet stats: the state of the internet report by jamie the internet is becoming an increasingly prevalent part of our day to day realities. i’m sure a lot of us end up spending more time communicating through screens than we do physically with people in our daily lives. one thing is for certain, the internet and the role it plays in our lives is here … read more2020 internet stats: the state of the internet report categories business best online jobs guide 2020 – no more commuting to a job you hate! by jamie the allure of working and making money online at home is undeniable. a stressful, polluted commute, a long workday on the company’s schedule, and limited earning potential bring little joy to the average worker, who’d much rather be making their own schedule, diversifying their revenue streams, and enjoying more time to spend on the people … read morebest online jobs guide 2020 – no more commuting to a job you hate! categories business, make money online twitch stats for 2020 – interesting facts and figures about twitch.com by jamie if there’s one social media platform that has had the biggest impact on the gaming industry, it’s twitch. while youtube has also been a huge online money-maker for the industry, twitch has basically created an entirely new career. some of the biggest names on the platform are raking in millions of dollars a year! it’s … read moretwitch stats for 2020 – interesting facts and figures about twitch.com categories business, social facebook live stats – 2020 by jamie while facebook has been a powerhouse in the social media world for well over a decade, it wasn’t until recently that the platform began offering live streaming services. facebook live is a relatively new feature of the platform, but it has become incredibly popular among users and marketing professionals alike. facebook’s popularity has made it … read morefacebook live stats – 2020 categories social, business linkedin stats for 2020 by jamie originally founded in 2002, linkedin is a unique social networking platform that focuses on professionalism and business. while other sites are centered on uniting friends and family, linkedin is all about creating industry connections. it’s a place for working professionals to upload their resumes, network, search for job opportunities, and ultimately advance their careers. with … read morelinkedin stats for 2020 categories business, social small business stats for 2020 by jamie opening a small business, whether its an online business or offline, lets you be the boss. you can take a few days off work for vacation without worrying about what a supervisor might think and put all the money you make in the bank instead of giving it to someone else. budding entrepreneurs should look … read moresmall business stats for 2020 categories business video marketing stats – 2020 – incredible facts about vlogging and video content marketing by jamie in the ever-changing world of digital marketing, video content continues to play a crucial role in gaining exposure and generating conversions. today, it’s one of the most effective parts of any digital marketing strategy. as technology advances and social media networks evolve, advertisers have more ways to interact with audiences than ever before. these days, … read morevideo marketing stats – 2020 – incredible facts about vlogging and video content marketing categories business .org vs .com – battle of the two top domain name extensions by jamie .org and .com domain name extensions are used at the end of website urls in order to help categorize them. they are also called tlds ( top level domains ) .org is primarily used by non-profit organizations, while .com is used mostly by for-profit businesses. many would argue choosing the right domain name extension is … read more.org vs .com – battle of the two top domain name extensions categories business how to start a business: the essential step-by-step guide by jamie now days, everyone seems to be talking about starting their own business. thanks to the internet, creating a business, reaching your audience, and selling your products, has become a real possibility for anyone willing to put in the work. but ensuring your business is a success isn’t easy, and many entrepreneurs fail early on from … read morehow to start a business: the essential step-by-step guide categories business uber stats – 2020 – all the numbers – all the facts by jamie today, there are more transportation options to meet the needs of the average commuter better than before. thanks to companies such as uber who employ independent drivers throughout the world, you now have affordable options that don’t involve questionable cabbies or packed subways. best of all, you can do all your booking through a convenient … read moreuber stats – 2020 – all the numbers – all the facts categories business how to sell a domain name – a step-by-step guide by jamie with literally thousands of domain names changing hands every day, domain flipping has become a lucrative business. there are actually several reasons to sell a domain name. maybe you have an unused domain you’re not doing anything with, or maybe you’re looking to become a domain investor. whatever your reasons, selling domain names is not … read morehow to sell a domain name – a step-by-step guide categories business, make money online best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub