welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog making time for innovation: meet stephanie published on: mar 02, 2020 by livia halltari 1637 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what does it take to innovate? some things that may pop in your head probably include: thinking outside of the status quo, bright minds, making room for mistakes and learning from them. but what often gets overlooked is perhaps the most obvious answer — time. that’s one of the lessons we learned from our chat with stephanie, cmo of edx, in this edition of edx... read more about making time for innovation: meet stephanie it’s no longer business as usual: 10 courses for the future of business published on: feb 28, 2020 by livia halltari 2426 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in a rapidly evolving world, workplaces are changing in ways that affect every aspect of conducting business. from how products are designed to how decisions are made, businesses are becoming more complex and data-driven than ever. this shift is bound to influence everything between your human resources department to information technology. the good news? this change means new emerging opportunities to innovate and find competitive... read more about it’s no longer business as usual: 10 courses for the future of business edx insider with anant agarwal published on: jan 22, 2020 by livia halltari 1852 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post welcome to the latest edition of edx insider, where we give you a behind-the-scenes look at edx hq. in this special installment, we sit down with edx ceo & founder anant agarwal to discuss innovation, edx’s history, its future, and more. what thing are you most proud of that edx has accomplished since 2012? 2012 was an incredibly exciting time, when we had no idea... read more about edx insider with anant agarwal top-ranked programs that will prepare you for 2020 and beyond published on: jan 02, 2020 by livia halltari 4396 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this next year and decade won’t be defined by a singular trend, but rather a combination of emerging technologies and skill sets — the growing focus on ai, automation, digital leadership, and more. an easy start to get a leg up on the trends is one course, but to dive even deeper, consider starting a program. start exploring our hand-picked list of top-ranked programs created... read more about top-ranked programs that will prepare you for 2020 and beyond these knowledge areas will define the next decade published on: jan 01, 2020 by livia halltari 4612 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post will 2020 be the year of ai, the year of automation, or the year of data? the answer isn’t any one of these. the next year, and more broadly, the next decade, will be defined by a combination of new technologies, with a new emphasis on the necessity to reskill and upskill to keep up with the new prevalence of artificial intelligence, machine learning, cybersecurity,... read more about these knowledge areas will define the next decade career advice 101 published on: oct 16, 2019 by livia halltari 7621 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post no matter where you are in your career path or job search, you’re usually able to pinpoint a time towards the start of your professional life where you’ve said to yourself, “if only i knew then what i know now” (or something along those lines). “career ready 101” advice can be found anywhere on the web and social media, but how can we be sure that this... read more about career advice 101 inside edx for business: meet susan published on: oct 08, 2019 by livia halltari 2223 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post welcome back to edx insider, our ongoing series where we bring you behind the scenes at edx hq. we’re sitting down with susan, enterprise product marketing, to chat about edx for business, the things that set edx apart, and more. quick stats name: susan sherwin department: enterprise product marketinghow does the enterprise team relate to edx’s overall mission? ultimately, learners are learners, whether they’re joining... read more about inside edx for business: meet susan edx welcomes anáhuac published on: aug 27, 2019 by johannes heinlein 3739 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are pleased to announce that universidad anáhuac, one of the top universities in mexico, has joined the edx global partner community. anáhuac’s mission is to contribute to the formation of future leaders that promote the development of people and society. the anáhuac university network is comprised of eight institutions that collectively offer more than 60 bachelor’s degrees and 200 graduate programs. anáhuac’s education model... read more about edx welcomes anáhuac congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! published on: aug 20, 2019 by nina huntemann 7049 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i am thrilled to announce the 10 finalists for the fourth annual edx prize for exceptional contributions in online teaching and learning! the edx prize celebrates the contributions and innovations of educators in the edx community, and amplifies the powerful role that online learning plays in the transformation of education today. last year, in boston at the edx global forum, university of queensland professors blake... read more about congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! edx and boston university questrom school of business launch fully online mba published on: jul 23, 2019 by anant agarwal 4079 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post edx is pleased to announce the launch of an online master of business administration (mba) from boston university questrom school of business. the program is designed specifically for online learners who seek to advance their management careers in today’s global economy, providing a comprehensive, engaging, and integrated experience centered on the themes that drive business in the 21st century. the bu questrom mba program is... read more about edx and boston university questrom school of business launch fully online mba page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close