x edition: united states business business home legal deals aerospace & defense finance autos reuters summits sustainable business the world at work markets markets home u.s. markets european markets asian markets global market data stocks bonds currencies commodities funds earnings dividends exchange-traded funds lipper awards stock screener fund screener world world home u.s. special reports reuters investigates euro zone middle east china japan mexico brazil africa russia india politics politics home election 2020 supreme court polling on the president tech technology home science media energy and environment breakingviews breakingviews home breakingviews video wealth wealth home retirement life health soccer sports arts entertainment oddly enough pictures pictures home the wider image photographers tv africa américa latina عربي argentina brasil canada 中国 deutschland españa france india italia 日本 méxico россия united kingdom united states business & financial news, u.s & international breaking news historic $2.2 trillion coronavirus bill becomes law the house approved a $2.2 trillion aid package - the largest in history - to help cope with the economic downturn inflicted by the coronavirus pandemic, and trump quickly signed it into law. what's in the bill aid is no panacea for future state budget woes u.s. doctors, nurses under increasing stress italy deaths rise by 919, highest daily tally a u.s. recession? probably. depression? only if the virus is untamed 1:42pm edt trump tells gm: stop 'wasting time', build ventilators to address coronavirus 5:08pm edt bipartisan majority of americans reject trump idea to reopen by easter: reuters/ipsos poll 6:25pm edt british pm johnson has coronavirus, self-isolates in downing street 6:03pm edt the wire 4m ago brazil government ad rejects coronavirus lockdowns, saying #brazilcannotstop 7m ago apple's factories are running, but suppliers wary about iphone demand 9m ago microsoft to divest anyvision stake, end face recognition investing 10m ago canada bolsters main street with wage subsidy amid coronavirus outbreak 10m ago wall street tumbles as u.s. virus cases pass 100,000 10m ago finland blocks roads to helsinki to curb coronavirus spread 13m ago exclusive: ex-venezuelan general charged with drug trafficking surrenders to dea - sources 16m ago airbnb to halt all marketing, most hiring as losses mount: the information 17m ago factbox: what's in the $2.2 trillion u.s. coronavirus rescue package 17m ago historic $2.2 trillion coronavirus bill passes u.s. house, becomes law 17m ago factbox: 'mr. no': meet the u.s. congressman who requested a formal vote to delay the coronavirus bill 20m ago world bank, imf urge debt relief for poorer countries hit by coronavirus 37m ago bipartisan majority of americans reject trump idea to reopen by easter: reuters/ipsos poll 43m ago 'stay home,' irish pm tells nation in coronavirus battle 45m ago famously boisterous nigerian mega-city lagos adjusts to coronavirus lockdown 47m ago u.s. airlines cheer government relief but warn it is no 'cure' for deep industry crisis 1m ago doctor working with amazon tribe tests positive for coronavirus 52m ago canada delays capital changes for smaller banks, eases liquidity rules 53m ago four passengers die on cruise ship with coronavirus outbreak off panama 58m ago european airlines resist mounting coronavirus refund claims coronavirus coronavirus emerges as major threat to u.s. election process milan hospital coronavirus squad battles the odds to save a life global oil refiners shut down as coronavirus destroys demand featured your money the one document americans need now - power of attorney how the $2 trillion bill impacts retirement savers breakingviews: eu divisions risk inflating crisis bill life under lockdown grief in a crisis: holding a dying mother's hand with a latex glove more top news wall street tumbles as u.s. virus cases pass 100,000 wall street stocks tumbled on friday, ending a massive three-day surge after doubts about the fate of the u.s. economy resurfaced and the number of coronavirus cases in the country climbed. 6:52pm edt apple's factories are running, but suppliers wary about iphone demand as china reopens its economy after months of lockdown, apple inc's iphone factories are largely up and running. but with the coronavirus pandemic spreading across the world, the urgent question for the company is how many buyers there will be both for current models and the new slate of phones expected in the fall. 6:55pm edt u.s. airlines cheer government relief but warn it is no 'cure' for deep industry crisis united airlines holdings inc and delta air lines welcomed on friday a $50 billion relief package they said would protect jobs through september but warned that the continued challenges facing the industry will require more action. 6:15pm edt at some u.s. hospitals, drugs, catheters, oxygen tanks run low it's not just protective facemasks that are in short supply: health workers in u.s. hospitals are reporting dwindling stocks of drugs, catheters and other medical miscellany vital for caring for a surge in patients stricken by the coronavirus outbreak. 6:46pm edt imf's georgieva says world in recession, countries must 'go big' on spending the coronavirus has already driven the global economy into recession and countries must respond with "very massive" spending to avoid a cascade of bankruptcies and emerging market debt defaults, the head of the international monetary fund warned on friday. 5:54pm edt reuters pictures quarantine culture from rooftops, balconies and windows photos of the week advertisement business airbnb to halt all marketing, most hiring as losses mount: the information european airlines resist mounting coronavirus refund claims u.s. airlines expect clarity on terms of payroll grants in 5-10 days: ual senior executives markets canada bolsters main street with wage subsidy amid coronavirus outbreak factbox: 'mr. no': meet the u.s. congressman who requested a formal vote to delay the coronavirus bill world bank, imf urge debt relief for poorer countries hit by coronavirus world doctor working with amazon tribe tests positive for coronavirus brazil government ad rejects coronavirus lockdowns, saying #brazilcannotstop finland blocks roads to helsinki to curb coronavirus spread technology microsoft to divest anyvision stake, end face recognition investing google-parent alphabet to donate $800 million in response to coronavirus crisis aging tech means raises for some americans who lose jobs in coronavirus crisis politics trump, michigan governor trade jabs as state's virus cases mount pelosi says house to approve coronavirus bill on friday trump attacks republican lawmaker threatening delay of economic stimulus deals air canada-transat deal to likely reduce competition: canadian agency goldman, morgan stanley receive approvals for majority stakes in china ventures activist funds defeated at kirin, toshiba machine, but advance in japan have a news tip? reuters provides several ways to securely and confidentially share information and materials with our journalists. learn more ›› signup for our newsletter subscribe to our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive reuters coverage delivered to your inbox. enter your email invalid address check your inbox and confirm your email address. follow reuters: follow us on twitter follow us on facebook follow us on instagram follow us on youtube follow us on linkedin subscribe: newsletters | podcasts | apps reuters news agency | brand attribution guidelines | advertise with us | careers | reuters editorial leadership | reuters fact check reuters, the news and media division of thomson reuters, is the world’s largest international multimedia news provider reaching more than one billion people every day. reuters provides trusted business, financial, national, and international news to professionals via thomson reuters desktops, the world's media organizations, and directly to consumers at reuters.com and via reuters tv. learn more about thomson reuters products: eikon information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface elektron everything you need to empower your workflow and enhance your enterprise data management world-check screen for heightened risk individuals and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks westlaw build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology onesource the most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs checkpoint the industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals all quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. see here for a complete list of exchanges and delays. site feedback corrections advertising guidelines cookies terms of use privacy policy