events resource center magazine contact us march 27, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: salesforce motivational coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise business books small business trends has professionally reviewed over 600 small business books and entrepreneur books. new reviews are published each weekend. to submit a book for review and read our review policies, read our book faqs. dare to inspire shares the fire of inspiration in work and life dare to inspire - sustain the fire of inspiration in work and life. it will show you how to best transform inspiration into new ideas to pursue. mar 15, 2020 46 shares stop persuading and start changing minds: read the catalyst … mar 8, 2020 35 shares read more read more the hero factor explains how great leaders transform organizations maintaining ethics is critical for building value in a business. the hero factor shows how great leaders transform organizations. mar 8, 2020 46 shares tech humanist shows how to make technology better … mar 1, 2020 52 shares read more read more creative selection – inside apple’s design process during the golden age creative selection - inside apple's design process during the golden age of steve jobs, whose influence beyond apple is still felt today. feb 23, 2020 46 shares be a startup superstar outlines the path to success working at a startup be a startup superstar. startup managers are seeking talent with that fierce spirit to shepherd the startup resources to success. feb 16, 2020 52 shares read more read more the amazon management system reveals the ultimate digital business engine … feb 9, 2020 39 shares love is just damn good business doing what you love, serving people author steve farber looks at the impact of mixing love and business. feb 2, 2020 56 shares read more read more need help in your business? read all you have to do is ask asking, a simple act that will save you a lot of time as an entrepreneur. jan 26, 2020 65 shares ignore your customers (and they’ll go away): a customer service playbook this book shows how not to let your customers go away -- and how to attract more through great customer service. practical tips, techniques to follow. jan 19, 2020 15 shares read more read more how to ditch the act and build your personal brand the authentic way if you want a solid brand, you have to be authentic. jan 12, 2020 77 shares competing in the age of ai requires a new strategy how do you put your fears about an ai takeover to rest? jan 5, 2020 119 shares read more read more 1 2 3 … 79 next → subscribe follow @smallbiztrends rss linkedin pinterest itunes subscribe to our newsletter submit report this ad book categories search for: biographies customer service economics leadership management marketing motivational sales self improvement social media startup technology women entrepreneur report this ad small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit