welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog it’s no longer business as usual: 10 courses for the future of business published on: feb 28, 2020 by livia halltari 2426 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in a rapidly evolving world, workplaces are changing in ways that affect every aspect of conducting business. from how products are designed to how decisions are made, businesses are becoming more complex and data-driven than ever. this shift is bound to influence everything between your human resources department to information technology. the good news? this change means new emerging opportunities to innovate and find competitive... read more about it’s no longer business as usual: 10 courses for the future of business edx welcomes hec montréal published on: oct 29, 2019 by johannes heinlein 2252 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are pleased to announce that hec montréal, canada’s first business school, has joined the global community of edx partner institutions. our relationship has deep roots as hec montréal is a longtime open edx user, and hosted the 2018 open edx conference. at the intersection of french and english speaking communities in montréal, the institution extends its collaboration and influence worldwide, giving students a globalized... read more about edx welcomes hec montréal the employability skills checklist published on: jul 10, 2019 by david mcpherson 34750 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we’ve taken 6 key employability skills and matched them with free online courses to help you build your resume and further your career. no matter what job you are applying for, possessing excellent skills in these 6 areas will help you stand out from the crowd and get hired. 1. communication skills excellent written and verbal communication skills are paramount to getting a job. reading... read more about the employability skills checklist 5 new professional certificate programs: fintech, innovation, entrepreneurship and more published on: may 22, 2018 by justine goulart 7898 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post 12 courses you can complete in 6 weeks or less! published on: mar 22, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 12744 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post 5 ways to identify effective unconscious bias training published on: dec 13, 2017 by emily troiano 5111 views no comments posted in: business / learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post organizations and business professionals are becoming more and more aware that everyone has unconscious bias. but having an unconscious bias doesn’t make us bad—it just makes us human. unconscious biases can have a significant negative impact on workplaces, leading to differences in who gets hired and recruited, who gets offered new opportunities, and whose voice is listened to in meetings and beyond. with training, however,... read more about 5 ways to identify effective unconscious bias training new professional certificate programs develop critical skills industry leaders seek today published on: sep 12, 2017 by anant agarwal 6897 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post entrepreneurship and business management micromasters programs to advance your career published on: dec 28, 2016 by justine goulart 6427 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post why study business? aside from business being the most popular field of study worldwide, particularly at the graduate level, gaining foundational business skills gives you the opportunity to advance your career in a variety of different companies and industries and in a variety of different roles, from accounting and finance, to marketing and advertising. also, salary expectations for those with a business degree rank the third... read more about entrepreneurship and business management micromasters programs to advance your career micromasters programs: a new credential to advance your career and accelerate your master’s degree published on: sep 20, 2016 by anant agarwal 17311 views 3 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post today, we are proud to announce the launch of the micromasters initiative, the next evolution in our mission to increase access to high-quality education and help learners improve their lives and advance their careers. along with 14 of our global university partners, we have created a new category of master’s-level online education to advance careers in the most in-demand fields—from ux and artificial intelligence, to... read more about micromasters programs: a new credential to advance your career and accelerate your master’s degree build a career in risk management published on: aug 24, 2016 by fc201x course team at iimbx 7721 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this is a guest blog post from the banking and financial markets: a risk management perspective course team at iimbx. have you ever wondered why an economic and financial crisis in one country affects other parts of the world? in today’s globally interconnected world, banking and financial markets have grown not only in size, but also in complexity and inter-relatedness. be it a steep decline in... read more about build a career in risk management page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close