bustle explore bustle book club week 1: sydney sweeney on chapters 1-3 of ‘we used to be friends’ by bustle editors how spiritual leaders are coping with the coronavirus crisisby jennifer gerson 9 social-distancing activities that have proven mental health benefitsby alli maloney 'little fires everywhere' finally realized it's a coming out storyby jill gutowitz how mindy kaling's assistant landed her dream jobby brianna kovan i was writing this coronavirus essay when i learned my dad went to the hospitalby catherine thompson exclusives bill pullman breaks down that shocking 'sinner' twist & what it means for harry ambroseby caitlin gallagher elisabeth moss on ghosting dates, the career she never had & her beef with hand sanitizerby samantha rollins kaitlyn & mady dever have been making music forever — now they're ready to share itby phoebe reilly lakeith stanfield is a new kind of romantic heroby candice frederick rosario dawson has found her person — and her purposeby kristen yoonsoo kim aidy bryant is just like you — but betterby allison piwowarski 5 muslim women comedians who will get you through social distancing bustle is partnering with muslimgirl.com to celebrate the fourth annual #muslimwomensday on march 27 to highlight the voices of muslim women in 2020. this year’s theme is “autonomy,” which touches on everything from redefining social distancing to…by leila barghouty some tim gunn-approved style advice on what to wear while working from home like much of the world, tim gunn is currently working from home to help prevent the spread of coronavirus. and his advice for wfh fashion is pretty simple: "do whatever it takes" to get through the day. for gunn, that means spending an excessive…by kayla blanton evangeline lily is now social distancing after dismissing coronavirus concerns after receiving backlash for her apparent disregard of social distancing, evangeline lilly has apologized for her coronavirus comments. on monday, march 16, lilly claimed that it was "#businessasusual" for her family after she dropped her children…by caitlin gallagher meghan & harry have moved to la, according to new reports no matter what's going on in the world, many of us still love to keep up with our favourite royals, and this most recent news involves none other than the former duke and duchess of sussex. according to sources, meghan and harry have reportedly…by rebecca fearn why all your friends are posting "until tomorrow" captions on instagram right now among the many things people are doing to keep themselves entertained while quarantined — from virtual happy hours to push up challenges — is a new instagram trend that's gaining popularity at a high speed. with nearly 600,000 tagged posts and…by kaitlyn wylde bill pullman breaks down that shocking 'sinner' twist & what it means for harry ambrose spoilers ahead for the sinner season 3 finale. jamie's fateful games of chance in the sinner season 3 were inevitably going to lead to either his own death or that of detective harry ambrose. but after jamie killed the dorchester police captain and…by caitlin gallagher 'chrissy's court' is officially in session with a new trailer from quibi all rise for the honorable judge chrissy teigen. the official trailer for chrissy's court is here meaning soon enough fans will get to see teigen legally decide people's fate in court. for real. as declared in the trailer, the people and cases are…by allyson koerner taylor swift & ariana grande reached out to fans in need due to coronavirus it can be hard to know how to help others in a crisis, especially when you're being warned not to leave your home. but, in an effort to do their part, taylor swift and ariana grande are sending money to fans who are struggling financially due to…by jake viswanath peter was spotted hanging out with kelley post-'bachelor' — but what does it all mean? peter's season of the bachelor may have finished airing, but it looks like his love story isn't quite over yet. on wednesday, march 15, peter weber was spotted out with bachelor contestant kelley in chicago amid rumors that the pair had reconnected…by julia emmanuele 'love is blind' inspired these fans to get engaged during quarantine love in the time of social distancing has forced lots of couples to get creative. amid the coronavirus pandemic, netflix's love is blind inspired a fan to propose while quarantined in huntington, new york. after marathoning the netflix social…by brad witter touring musicians are losing more than just money in the coronavirus pandemicby caitlin wolper the 'avatar: the last airbender,' tv director on what he wants to see in the netflix series when you hear the word avatar, it's likely that two completely different stories come to mind: the 2009 james cameron film, and the cartoon avatar: the last airbender. the tv series, which premiered more than 15 years ago in 2005, was a success both…by keyla carvalho dua lipa & anwar hadid's matching outfits are peak 'future nostalgia' just when you thought you’d already listened to all your favorite playlists 100 times over since the beginning of quarantine, dua lipa's future nostalgia is here to save the day with some fresh tracks for your earbuds. yes, the pop star just dropped…by mekita rivas say goodbye to damaged hair & itchy skin with these chlorine-busting shower filters showering in unfiltered, chlorinated water can lead to dry skin, brittle hair, color-treated hair that turns green, or worse — increased itchiness, allergies, and even asthma. but the best shower filters for chlorine will let you relax under a hot…by tiana crump the best 'tiger king' memes are the ones about joe exotic's style netflix's latest true crime spectacular, tiger king, has taken the internet by storm. the seven part docuseries follows joe exotic, the owner of a zoo in rural oklahoma who's known to his fans as the self-proclaimed "tiger king." while tiger king…by danielle burgos here are the 31 best 'even stevens' episodes to watch on disney+ while quarantined remember when shia labeouf wasn't a controversial filmmaker, and just that annoying younger brother on tv? if you don't, it might be time to take a walk down nostalgia lane and check out the best even stevens episodes to watch on disney+. the disney…by allyson koerner 'making the cut' & more fashion content for your quarantine watch list there’s no rulebook for adjusting to life under quarantine. for some, it’s important to have structure and routine. these are the folks who are still updating their calendars, working out regularly, and getting dressed up every day (or, at least,…by mekita rivas from personal blenders to family-sized ones, these are the best nutribullets on amazon so you’ve decided you want a nutribullet only to find there are actually many blenders to choose from in the nutribullet family. to help you navigate the options, i’ve broken picks down by power and size so you can find the best nutribullet for…by ileana morales valentine how to use snapchat filters on zoom to turn into a cat, dog, toilet paper pile, & more your work and social life might be fully virtual these days, but that doesn't mean you can't have a little bit of fun with it. snapchat filters are actually available on zoom, which means that any standard work meeting can look like it's taking…by caroline burke tweets about dua lipa's new album prove it's the quarantine soundtrack we need right now, everything is stressful and uncertain — so why not throw on dua lipa's new album and dance your troubles away for an hour? the british pop star released her sophomore album on friday, march 27, and it will definitely make your stress melt…by julia emmanuele waxahatchee's "hopeful" new album will soothe you in stressful times like many touring musicians, katie crutchfield didn't fully grasp the reality of the coronavirus pandemic until mid-march, when she was forced to postpone her tour. “my touring income is how i really make a majority of my money,” the singer better…by shannon carlin what to know if you're flying during the coronavirus outbreak, according to doctors this post is updated regularly to reflect the latest news and science around coronavirus, also known as covid-19. after the world health organization (who) officially declared the covid-19 disease a pandemic on march 11, you might question whether…by caroline burke 4 beauty products you should definitely be wearing indoors, according to experts one of the best parts of working from home is that the only person who is going to judge your appearance is you. you want to spend a week straight in the same matching sweatsuit? you do you. want to work from home without makeup for an entire month?…by olivia muenter 21 quarantine reads from your favorite authors whether you're self-quarantined or under a shelter-in-place order, you might find yourself feeling a little bit restless. but remember that everyone is in this together — even the authors whose books are on your nightstand right now. bustle has put…by k.w. colyard if you’re wondering how deadly coronavirus is, here’s what to know this post is updated regularly to reflect the latest news and science around coronavirus, also known as covid-19. according to the centers for disease control & prevention (cdc), over 1,200 people have died from covid-19 in the united states alone.…by caroline burke doc antle slammed 'tiger king' on instagram for promoting "mistruths" about him everyone you know might be talking about tiger king right now, but one of the people in the netflix documentary would like to be excluded from this narrative. doc antle's response to tiger king denies the documentary's claims about his t.i.g.e.r.s…by julia emmanuele joe exotic's presidential campaign timeline is as wild as you'd expect new netflix doc tiger king: murder, mayhem and madness dives into the surreal world of big cat breeders, with a heavy focus on the scandalous life of zoo owner joe exotic. but those who haven't watched the documentary still might recognize exotic's…by danielle burgos astrologers reveal what could be ahead for harry & meghan's post-royal relationship prince harry and meghan markle's announcement that they would be stepping back from their royal duties rocked both pop culture and the royal world. historically, royal departures have involved divorce or controversy rather than a member's mere…by nina kahn how to get in on the "my favorite things" gif challenge on instagram social distancing is a super effective strategy against the coronavirus, but it also might create more space in your daily schedule than you're used to. so why not use the free time to share some info with your friends, and help them get to know you…by caroline burke 5 muslim women comedians who will get you through social distancing bustle is partnering with muslimgirl.com to celebrate the fourth annual #muslimwomensday on march 27 to highlight the voices of muslim women in 2020. this year’s theme is “autonomy,” which touches on everything from redefining social distancing to…by leila barghouty do you dress like carole baskin from 'tiger king'? because same. just when you thought you'd run out of ways to entertain yourself during the quarantine, netflix drops tiger king: murder, mayhem and madness. the documentary chronicles the demise of zoo keeper joe exotic (real name joe maldonado-passage), a…by jessica andrews newsentertainmentbeautyfashionlifestylebookshealthwomen's history monthspread the lovevideo about usadvertisetermsprivacydmcacontact uscoupons