about us testimonials guarantee delivery contact why 'real' seed? the best vegetables for the kitchen garden ~ uk company no. 5924934 ~ defra inspected seed merchant no. 7289 ~ help seed sources gift options search vegetable seeds aubergines beans - french beans - runner beans - unusual beetroot broad beans broccoli & rapini brussels sprouts cabbage cauliflower carrots celery, & celeriac chicory chilli peppers courgettes & summer squash cucumbers cucumber relatives fennel flowers fungi grains herbs kale kohl rabi leaf greens for cooking leeks lettuces lupins (altramuz) melons & watermelons mustard greens (for cooking) okra (gumbo) onions - normal onions - special types oriental greens for cooking & salads parsnips, root chicory & root parsley peas pumpkins & winter squash radishes (salad, & cooking types) salad vegetables sweet corn swedes sweetpeppers tomatoes: bush types tomatoes: vines - cherries tomatoes: vines - larger tomatilloes & groundcherries turnips unusual tubers: oca & yacon books and gifts some special books gift seed collections options for gift orders seedsaving why save your own seed? how to save seed-free booklet drying your seed seedsaving book threshing & winnowing pepper/chilli seed tricks cabbage (etc) seed details start a seed circle! isolation cage plans open-source seed cleaning machine open-source seed more information paper catalogues our annual garden reports give us feedback monthly sowing calendar tips for beginners germination temperatures how long seed lasts guide to summer sowing guide to autumn / winter sowing why gmo seed is stupid follow us to see what we're up to on the farm and in the office as we grow and try new varieties, follow our facebook or instagram pages payment "you have the freedom to use ossi-pledged seeds in any way you choose. in return, you pledge not to restrict others' use of these seeds or their derivatives by patents or other means, and to include this pledge with any transfer of these seeds or their derivatives." ~ our 2020 vegetable seed catalogue ~ an update from us: firstly, don't panic, we are planning on staying open and sending out seeds. in the medium term we think we can do that really well and you will all be able to buy the seeds you need. however, right now, as a short term problem, our post isn't being collected often (many of our wonderful local postmen are off sick). and we have staff isolating at home as well, so we can't pack more seeds to replace those being bought so many things are "out of stock". please bear with us; in a few weeks' time we think we will have new systems up and running and you should be able to order as normal. until then we will be open briefly for orders a couple times a week after our post has been collected - which is completely unpredictable. sorry but we don't want to take a whole load of orders that we can't post out to you. note: a few people are asking to place huge orders, but it's not necessary. seeds do not keep so there is no point in stockpiling them. all orders are now limited to 1 packet of each variety and no more than 35 different things. please be considerate of others who would like to garden too, and only order what you think you can realistically use. rated 'best buy' by ethical consumer magazine welcome! our heirloom and heritage vegetable seeds are specially chosen for home gardeners. over the past 21 years we've collected the very best varieties for you to grow. you'll find no f1 hybrids or genetically modified seed here - just varieties that do really well and taste great when grown on a garden scale - a catalogue of real seeds for real gardeners wanting to grow proper vegetables. because all are open-pollinated (non-hybrid), if you wish you can even save your own vegetable seed for future years, using the instructions we supply. there's no need to buy new seed every year. try something new this year! yacon tubers are productive, fun and easy to grow. new to gardening? see the calendars on each page - dark green squares show the main sowing times for each crop. lighter green are extensions/options. for more detailed sowing plans throughout the year, we have a month-by-month guide. see the latest news from the field on our facebook or instagram pages. how we are different we don't just sell seed; we're gardeners and also grow these veg for our own use at home, so we really know how they grow & how they taste. we only offer what we think is really good, rather than listing lots of different varieties just for the sake of it. every vegetable here has been chosen - from hundreds of trials - for a particular reason, which we try to explain in the description. we do our own website - so it has been written by gardeners, for gardeners. it should be easy to see what each vegetable does, how it grows, and when to sow it. we really do hope you enjoy these vegetables as much as we have enjoyed tracking them down and trying them out. each and every one has been chosen for its merit in the kitchen as well as the garden. our aim is to offer you the very best seed of the best vegetable varieties we can find! - best wishes for a great season from ben, kate, catherine, tam & ian to reduce plastic waste, we supply much of our seed in paper envelopes. to do this have we purchased one of the last existing ballard brown-bag seed packing machines. weighing 1000lb in cast iron and brass, and built a hundred and twenty years ago, this amazing device has been in constant use ever since. it picks up and opens the packet, throws a measured scoop of seed in, glues the flap, folds it over and passes it to the output tray. originally steam powered, ours is now run by an electric motor. we designed beautiful new seed packets to go with it, inspired by the art nouveau posters of mucha, & have had the correct 1880s-pattern envelopes manufactured for us by a company in wales. the real seed catalogue is produced by the real seed collection ltd ~ company no 5924934 ~ vat no 841181938 ~ defra registered seed merchant no 7289 ~ soil association organic seed packing license ap27266 ~ our unique structure: although a limited company, we have no shareholders. the aim is not to make huge profits, but to supply great seeds to home gardeners at reasonable prices, and to educate people about home seed-saving. as part of our ethical policy, all staff are paid the same hourly wage, including the directors. our unique guarantee:we have spent years trying to find the best varieties for you. we think these are the best seeds you can sow, and we really hope that you enjoy growing your vegetables. we will refund or replace if you are in any way less than delighted with them, even including the flavour of the resulting crop! gardeners should save their own seed: because these seeds are not hybrids, you can save your own seed for future use: there's no need to buy new each year. saving your own is easy. you will get great seed, and great vegetables adapted to your local conditions. do have a go - read the seedsaving instructions we provide with every order, and also on this site. ~ we have now sent out over 165,000 sets of free home seed-saving instructions!~ our seed club:due to really daft seed laws, many of our fantastic vegetable seeds can only be supplied to members of our seed club, because they are not on the 'approved list' of permitted vegetable varieties! but membership costs just one penny. when you order, you will be charged a penny for a lifetimes seed club membership. for details see terms and conditions. climate change: real seeds is powered by 100% renewable electricity a fine crop of sutherland kale in flower.