bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr it all starts with a domain name .com .online .site .co.uk .org.uk .website .space .tech .store .blog .net .org .info .co .us .biz .club search ca$16.08/yr search ca$12.06/yr search ca$17.42/yr search ca$6.69/yr search ca$13.40/yr search ca$2.67/yr search com. online. site. co.uk. org.uk. website. space. tech. store. blog. net. org. info. co. us. biz. club. search each domain includes easy management once you use our domain name lookup and find a suitable web address, you can manage your site through a simple interface. managed your domain and all of its aspects from an easy-to-use control panel. change dns records easily across multiple domains. auto-renewal protect your domain from expiring and accidentally being lost by enabling auto-renewal. switch back to manual renewal at anytime. using this service ensures that your website domain names are always protected. domain lock once you find your perfect domain, lock it down to prevent unauthorized transfers. unlock it for transfers at anytime. our domain name service will save your preferred name and keep it secure for when you are ready. 24/7 expert support our expert team is always on hand to help answer your questions, get you started, and grow your presence online. you can call, chat or email us any time! 888-401-4678 chat faqs is my domain name available? let's find out! enter the domain name you wish to use in the search box and then click search. if your domain name is available you will be taken to a page to review and purchase it. if your domain is not available, bluehost provides variations and other extensions for you to choose from. how should i choose my domain name? short names that are easy to remember perform the best. it's also best practice to choose a domain name that closely resembles your business name. some people also use keywords in their domain name to help visitors easily find them in search engines. your domain name can use letter, numbers and hyphens but not special characters. is domain name privacy + protection worth it? your personal contact information is registered to your domain and can be found in the public whois directory. however you can keep your personal contact information private by utilizing bluehost's domain privacy + protection. domain privacy + protection will replace your personal contact information with bluehost's contact information. using domain privacy + protection helps protect you from spam and identity theft as well as alerts you to any changes made to your domain while scanning the website associated with your domain for malware. why do i need a domain name? your domain name is how visitors easily find you online. it is often the first step in getting your website started because it is like establishing your website's street address on the internet. if you did not have a domain name, you would have to give out your ip address to everyone who wanted to visit your website, which would get confusing and be easily forgotten. which domain names are available? bluehost sells a wide array of domain extensions. including but not limited to: .com, .club, .co, .space, .us, .website, .org, .net, .me, .biz, .info, .host, .online, .site, .co.uk, and .org.uk. plus many more. check out our selection by entering your desired domain name above. would you like to know more information? yes, you can transfer your domain to bluehost. transferring your domain registration to your new account is easy. learn more * the promotional price is for the first term only and renews at the regular rate. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.