buy hosting you can rely on from day one get affordable web hosting package designed to help you start and run a successful website – regardless of your experience. buy web hosting choose your web hosting plan single shared hosting $9.99 save 90% $ 0 99 /mo $2.15/mo when you renew add to cart 1 website 1 email account limited bandwidth (100 gb) 1x processing power & memory litespeed cache wordpress acceleration (lscwp) cloudflare protected nameservers github integration 24/7/365 support 99.9% uptime guarantee dns management access manager 1 mysql database 2 subdomains 1 ftp account 1 cronjob daily backups free domain ssh access free ssl certificate click here to see all features click here to see all features most popular premium shared hosting $10.99 save 74% $ 2 89 /mo $3.49/mo when you renew add to cart unlimited*number of websites unlimited*email accounts unlimited*email accounts unlimited*bandwidth 2x processing power & memory litespeed cache wordpress acceleration (lscwp) cloudflare protected nameservers github integration 24/7/365 support 99.9% uptime guarantee dns management access manager unlimited mysql databases 100 subdomains unlimited ftp accounts unlimited cronjobs weekly backups free domain ssh access free ssl certificate click here to see all features click here to see all features business shared hosting $15.99 save 75% $ 3 99 /mo $7.95/mo when you renew add to cart all benefits from premium daily backups free ssl certificate 4x processing power & memory litespeed cache wordpress acceleration (lscwp) cloudflare protected nameservers github integration 24/7/365 support 99.9% uptime guarantee dns management access manager unlimited mysql databases 100 subdomains unlimited ftp accounts unlimited cronjobs daily backups free domain ssh access free ssl certificate click here to see all features click here to see all features did you know? personal free domains are included in annual premium & business web hosting plans! all you need to start a site of your dreams starting a website can be easy – all it takes is the right hosting environment and a partner you can rely on. at hostinger, we’ll provide you with all the tools you need to build a successful website. and will be there for you 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. fastest web hosting speed is one of the core variables for every online business. it affects everything – from the satisfaction of your site visitors to your seo ranking. thanks to hostinger’s modern infrastructure and top-quality network, we can offer the fastest web hosting in its price range. free domain name & ssl certificate enjoy free domain name and build your brand from day one. get an ssl certificate and encrypt the data exchanged between your site and its visitors. and the best is, you don’t have to spend a penny on that – just buy hosting, choose domain name, and enjoy the new site. domain-based email no more taken email names – you decide what your email handle will look like. and by sending them from @yourdomain.com you make your correspondence look a lot more professional and trustworthy, what can help you acquire new customers for your products and services. 24/7/365 customer support need help with your new hosting? want to migrate your old site? now it doesn’t matter if you’re an early bird or a night owl - just shoot us a message at any time of the day or night. our team members are waiting to assist you around the clock. wordpress-optimized hosting did you know that an estimated 1 in 3 sites is built on wordpress? it’s no surprise – in the end, it’s one of the most beginner-friendly content management systems with thousands of themes and plugins to choose from. and it runs even better on one of hostinger packages! website builder build a website with no coding skills with our free drag-and-drop website builder. just put the selected elements on the site, edit them using a convenient menu and enjoy the result. it doesn’t get any easier than that! buy web hosting buy hosting that makes building any website easy from blogs to business websites and e-commerce stores. thanks to the integration with top website management systems, you can easily create any site you need – even if you’ve never developed one before. and it takes less than 5 minutes to get started. wordpress the world’s most popular cms which can be used to build any site you can imagine. thanks to the community of thousands of enthusiastic developers, it’s hard to find a feature which cannot be added to the site using one of its great plugins. magento one of the most trusted open-source e-commerce platforms. build beautiful and fast online store and manage an inventory of tens, hundreds, or even thousands of products easily. sky is the limit! drupal free open-source content management system used by government sites, ngos, and universities around the world. while advanced, it requires no programming skills to get started and build a powerful website. joomla used by start-ups and big businesses alike, joomla is mostly popular for its great flexibility thanks to the smart extension system which covers templates, modules, components and plugins. prestashop an open-source e-commerce platform powering over half a million online stores worldwide. just like other content management systems, it comes with multiple addons and themes which you can install to enhance your store. woocommerce the most advanced wordpress e-commerce solution. sell products and services on your personal blog or create a professional store from scratch. choose from thousands of woocommerce-focused themes and plugins today high quality web hosting can be cheap & we have proved it. hostinger helps smart people to save a lot by providing exceptionally cheap web hosting with ultimate quality, premium web hosting features & fanatically dedicated live chat support. no matter where you are on your web building journey, you need to know that it’s possible to save smart today! here are only few of the many features that make hostinger a pioneer of affordable, premium & inexpensive web hosting. hosting: frequently asked questions (faq) here’re all the answers to some of the most common questions asked by our customers. how can i buy web hosting? it’s easy – just scroll up to the table, choose one of the packages, and click the buy hosting button. does web hosting include free domain name? yes – all hosting packages come with a free domain. once you buy web hosting, the domain will automatically get configured to point to your website. which web hosting plan do i need to choose? it depends on your needs, but most of our customers start with the premium shared hosting as it offers them lots of flexibility at a great price! what do i need to build my website? you just need to buy hosting – all our packages come with 1 month free website builder and easy, one-click installation of all the most popular content management systems. can i transfer my website to your web hosting? of course! just buy a web hosting package that interests you and let us know that you need to get your website moved to a new server. our technicians will do it for you free of charge. hosting web hosting vps hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting email hosting cms hosting ecommerce hosting free website hosting website builder cheap web hosting buy hosting windows vps minecraft server hosting web design services domains domain checker domain transfer free domain xyz domain cheap ssl certificate buy domain name whois checker domain name search 99 cent domains free ssl certificate information server status affiliate program payment methods wall of love reviews student discount pricing youtube creators our mission is to make life easier for website developers and their customers. we do it by offering easy to use, fast and reliable web hosting services. and more help report abuse knowledge base tutorials blog company about hostinger contact us our technology career legal privacy policy terms of service © 2004-2020 hostinger.com - premium web hosting, cloud, vps & domain registration services. prices are listed without vat close flash sale check 30-days money-back guarantee check free domain check 24/7 customer supportview offer up to 90 % off close flash sale web hosting plans + free domain when you complete your order in ... 02 days 11 hours 17 minutes 11 seconds get my 90 off! up to 90 % off close flash sale check 1-click installer check php 7.4 support check optimized for wordpressview offer up to 90 % off flash sale: web hostingfrom $0.99 /month!get started ×