welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog get ahead this fall: credit eligible courses published on: aug 17, 2017 by rachel lapal 10478 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post fall is approaching in some parts of the world and that means many things; football season, changing foliage, warmer clothes and the start of a new school year. it could also be the first step to a college degree thanks to arizona state university’s (asu) and edx’s global freshman academy (gfa). gfa is offering a variety of unique online courses this fall allowing you to jump... read more about get ahead this fall: credit eligible courses get college ready with 8 great edx courses published on: jun 15, 2017 by sara reich 4835 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post if you’re starting college soon, it’s important to make sure you’re prepared for your classes by refreshing your knowledge of the fundamentals or learning something new. explore these 8 prep and introductory courses on edx to kick-start or restart your college career! improve your math skills with 5 free online courses published on: apr 28, 2017 by david mcpherson 69743 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post it’s always a good time to work on your math skills. developing the technical side of your brain through practice problem solving will help you in so many situations throughout your life, including taking college entrance exams, applying for jobs, getting a mortgage on a home or even doing your taxes. working through math problems, playing math games and using math worksheets develops your critical... read more about improve your math skills with 5 free online courses what online courses should i take to prepare for college? published on: jan 16, 2017 by alice randall 10193 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post refine your writing and language skills get ahead in computer science refresh your math knowledge learn how to effectively communicate train your brain to think critically if you’re headed to college later this year, it’s likely that you’ve already completed your application forms, sat entrance exams and will (hopefully!) accept an offer to attend a school. you might think you’ve done all you can to... read more about what online courses should i take to prepare for college? start college this summer: credit-eligible courses starting in june published on: may 18, 2016 by david mcpherson 6524 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post earn college credit online this summer with three new courses from arizona state university and global freshman academy. if you’ve just graduated high school and want to get a head start on college or if you need to earn credits this summer to fulfill degree requirements, these online courses may be perfect for you. earn up to 15 credit hours that be applied toward an... read more about start college this summer: credit-eligible courses starting in june health, data, and math. new courses from edx! published on: nov 27, 2015 by justine goulart 5667 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post enhance your html 5 skills, discover new features and tools in excel – one of the most popular data software programs, analyze, discuss famous literary characters scrooge and tiny tim, or learn more about the recent ebola outbreak in west africa. edx’s mission is not only to provide high-quality education, but also to offer a wide range of subjects and skills you are looking for! find the right course for you... read more about health, data, and math. new courses from edx! free ap® courses on edx – enroll today! published on: sep 29, 2015 by david mcpherson 7963 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post preparing for the advanced placement (ap®)* exam or interested in learning more about a particular subject? these free ap® courses will provide you with a deeper understanding on everything from spanish and biology to physics and french. enroll today. ap calculus ap® calculus course links: on-ramp to ap* calculus ap® calculus: challenging concepts from calculus ab & calculus bc ap® biology ap® biology course links:... read more about free ap® courses on edx – enroll today! lifehacker’s top moocs: fall 2015 published on: sep 08, 2015 by becky pineo 6302 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post you don’t have to be moving into the dorms and spending hundreds on textbooks to go back to school – lifehacker has hand-picked some of their favorite free online courses for this fall! check out some of the edx courses the folks at lifehacker u are buzzing about. click here to read the full post on lifehacker.com. “your education doesn’t have to stop once you leave... read more about lifehacker’s top moocs: fall 2015 7 eye-opening courses to take this fall published on: aug 21, 2015 by rebecca.sacks 6248 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post whether you want to learn about the evolving solar energy industry, master data organization, or get lost in a classic novel, edx has a course for you. take a look at these new offerings starting soon and enroll in one today!mukta ghorpadey back to school: top 7 reasons to take ap courses published on: aug 12, 2015 by rebecca.sacks 20357 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post considering an ap course this fall? college prep courses, such as advanced placement® classes, are among the most important factors in college admissions today. to help you excel in high school and prepare for college, edx offers more than 40 high school courses from top universities. the edx high school initiative is also a great way for learners of any age to explore a new... read more about back to school: top 7 reasons to take ap courses page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close