skip to content skip to content menu start here blog podcast about categories ideas online business blogging self-publishing freelancing service businesses consulting coaching ecommerce amazon fba investing real estate peer-to-peer lending saving money hustle 101 productivity progress reports california consumer privacy act california consumer privacy act (ccpa) policy california consumer privacy act (hereafter, “ccpa”) is a california privacy law that will be effective as of january 1, 2020. the privacy statements and sections present in this ccpa notice are supplemental to the bryck media, llc dba side hustle nation (hereafter, “i”, “we”, “us”, “our”) privacy policy. this notice applies solely to website users, visitors and customers (purchasers) who reside in the state of california (hereafter, “consumer”, “consumers”, “you”). under ccpa, california consumers have several added rights and privileges that serves to protect their personal information being used in a way that the consumer does not agree with. this notice is in place to comply with california consumer privacy act (ccpa) of 2018 that goes into effect as of january 1, 2020. consumers have the right to request and know what categories of information, what personal information we collect, how we collect it, and for what purpose. consumer’s right to demand disclosure you have the right to demand that we disclose what categories of information we have or are collecting on you, and what personal information we have collected or are collecting on you. in an effort for full compliance, we are disclosing the categories of information we are generally collecting on and/or about consumers. as a consumer, you are free to request disclosure of your information at no extra charge to you if you make such requests no more than twice (2) during a 12-month period. general information we collect we generally collect personal information, as listed under ccpa, in the form of: name email address ip address we collect the information on visitors stated above through: opt-in forms you fill out interactions with emails we send you your correspondence with us through email third-party analytics software, including but not limited to google analytics you have the right to request disclosure of your collected personal information from us by contacting us at privacy@sidehustlenation.com. important note: until you fill out an opt-in form or email us, we won’t have any personal information on you to disclose. consumer’s right to request deletion of personal information under ccpa, a consumer has the right to contact the business that collected personal information on consumer and request deletion of that information. there are certain limited circumstances when the business does not have comply and delete the information. to provide and complete the transaction for which purpose the information was collected in the first place (example: selling and delivering goods and services); in compliance with a legal obligation; to carry out and be compliant with another legal requirement; to keep it for internal use that is reasonable to the consumer. consumer’s right to demand disclosure in case of sale as a consumer, you have the right to request full disclosure if the business sells or transfers your personal information for a business purpose. you have the right to know what information specifically has been sold or transferred, to whom, and for what business purpose. we do not sell personal information we collect from consumers. however, in the event we do so within the next 12 months, you will be given the option to opt-out of that if you don’t wish for your personal information to be sold. the consumer has the right to request that we disclose what category of information we sold, the specific pieces of information we sold, to whom we sold it, and for what business purpose. consumer can make this request by contacting us at privacy@sidehustlenation.com. consumer’s right to request business not sell information under ccpa, consumers have the right to request that a business that collected personal information not sell that information to anyone. in our efforts to comply with the california consumer privacy act, you can find a “do not sell my personal information” link in the footer of our website. if there is a field asking for email address, please be sure to include the same email you opted in with. if and when you select “do not sell my personal information” you will be marked as opt-out. therefore, you can be sure that your personal information and in general data collected on you will never be sold. business will not discriminate against consumer if you choose to exercise your right and request that we never sell your information, in accordance to ccpa, we will not and cannot discriminate against you for choosing to exercise your right. you will have access to the same services, at the same prices as everyone else. the quality and conditions of products and services you receive will be the same as everyone else, regardless if exercised your ccpa right to forbid selling your information. securing your personal information under ccpa, a business that collects or receives personal information about the consumer must implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices. if a business experiences a data breach, then it will be held liable if it did not implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices. we do our due diligence, and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to make sure that the consumer data and private information we collected is safe and secure. here are the security practices we have in place to protect consumer data: all the systems containing the consumer information (such as the email service provider) are password protected. the passwords are considered strong and are not easy to figure out. only 1 person knows the password. to make our email service provider database even more secure, we change the password every 3 months. our computers are protected from third-party access by having an additional password layer before they can start working on the computer. aside from what’s stated above, we take reasonable precautions on a daily basis to protect consumers and their information from unauthorized use, modification, destruction, and disclosure. contact us if you wish to exercise your rights under ccpa and make requests for disclosure, deletion or disclosure about sale of information, you can contact us directly and make such requests. you can also contact us at anytime if you’re not happy about the way we’re handling your data. we will respond as quickly as reasonably possible. please have in mind that we don’t have to comply with requests if you make them more than twice during a 12-month period. make your requests by contacting us at privacy@sidehustlenation.com. last updated january 15th, 2020. like that? there's more! join the 65,000 who get my best stuff via email i'll also send you my free guide: the 5 fastest ways to make more money. please enter your name. please enter a valid email address. i'm a hustler! you're in! make sure to check your email (including spam/promotions) for your free welcome gift. something went wrong. please check your entries and try again. usually hustling, occasionally social contact books write for us sponsor media terms of use | privacy | disclaimer | ccpa | do not sell my personal information © 2020 sidehustlenation.com we use cookies to to make sure you have the best experience on our website. cool?ok