home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library christmas latest articles london travel prevnext call santa directly via bt’s new inlinkuk service leyla preston fri 22nd dec 2017 2shares share tweet pin christmas is in just a few short days and, although snow did grace our lands briefly, we now seem to be experiencing milder weather with a side of drizzle – disappointed. however, this christmas, the streets in london and leeds will be having an extra sprinkle of festive magic thanks to inlinkuk from bt and their inlink hotline to the north pole. inlinks provide free calls to kids of all ages so that you can let santa know exactly what is on your christmas wish list via the inlinks’ integrated tablet. the tablet will display an icon which, once pressed, directly calls santa, allowing users to leave a message for him to assist in his and the elves’ preparation for christmas eve. that long list of unattainable items that your kids want for christmas? let santa deal with it directly! here are my boys’ wish lists for santa: (note the ‘tuda’ (tudor) house that my 5-year-old son wants) (i’ll let santa deal with ‘planet mars’ for my 6-year-old boy) as we advance through this digital age, so does our need for convenience at the drop of a hat. why write a letter to santa when you can call him up on a hotline straight to the north pole? inlinkuk, which is essentially a communications service, offers that hotline, and mums like myself, who, perhaps, still enjoy the sanctity of pen and paper, can perhaps, allow the kids to enjoy a phone call to santa, which, i believe, will encourage them to be ‘nice’ in the run-up to christmas. “we hope people join in the festive fun and enjoy leaving a message for santa in the north pole. the new inlinks provide many free digital services and we hope the new call santa feature is a hit with everyone.” neil scoresby, bt’s general manager for payphones and inlinkuk so, how does inlinkuk work? (photo credit: http://inlinkuk.com/assets/img/site.jpg) inlinkuk from bt uses ultrafast wi-fi and a host of other free digital services, which displays an icon that your child (or adult) can press, so they can speak to santa directly. the integrated tablet with the ‘call santa’ feature is currently being enjoyed by residents and visitors of six of the london boroughs where inlinks currently service, these are: camden, islington, southwark, tower hamlets, hackney and hammersmith & fulham. leeds also has inlinks on its streets as well. “we are thrilled to be bringing a little more festive cheer to the streets of london and leeds with the new call santa feature. we are using technology to bring the magic of christmas to life, providing the public with the chance to leave a message for santa. our aim is to provide boundless connectivity, and this christmas, we are extending that all the way to the north pole!” matt bird, general manager at inlinkuk the plan is for inlinks to replace thousands of bt payphones, so they can carry on providing those living, working and travelling in the above areas with the fastest free public wi-fi service available in the uk. residents and visitors will also benefit from free uk landline and mobile phone calls, access to maps, directions and local services, a port to charge your mobile and a new bt phone book app. moreover, inlinks will also feature digital displays which provide real-time information, such as underground service updates, weather forecasts and community messaging. the ‘call santa’ feature is all in the name of fun and it will really get the kids excited about christmas. so, make your way over to one of the london boroughs or leeds (if that’s closer) and let the kids have a little bit of fun with santa! merry christmas! * feature image photo credit: http://www.primesight.co.uk/news/article/primesight-and-inlink-have-hotline-santa/ * *collaborative feature post* never miss a new post! don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:btcall santachristmasinlinksuklondonpayphonessantauk related posts press release – launch of motherhood dia... how to help reduce poverty and change pe... looking after your money after christmas ho, ho, ho! jolly christmas pancake idea... royal lancaster london hotel review top seasonal family friendly holidays wh... quick and simple fashion tips for busy m... top 10 best educational christmas toys a... how to give back a little during christm... 16 weeks old – i need to get some ... top five tips for spreading the cost of ... tips for travelling with children have you visited the winter wonderland y... personalised gifts for the family this c... fun things to do with the kids over wint... morrisons online delivery service arrive... netflights puzzle pack – a handy compani... ravensburger big ben silhouette puzzle r... six simple ways to decorate your home fo... 5 minute interview with charlotte tomlin... 41 weeks pregnant – finally my bab... how you can use matched betting to save ... how do our eating habits differ by regio... half term fun at ora’s cookery event the ultimate parenting gift guide – give... christmas spiced apple and walnut chutne... how to save money on gifts this christma... win £250 just by sharing your favourite ... superfood christmas tree salad – the big... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 2shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok