home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy call to action: the mega power of tiny copy how to write copy promotion by dean mackenzie editor: whether you’re a copywriter, author, freelancer or blogger, knowing how to craft a call to action (cta) is essential. being such a tiny part of a web page, a call to action can be easily ignored. yet, it’s an incredibly important part of the page; the “door” that visitors step through, whether to buy, sign up or learn more about something. this makes call to action copy no trivial matter. do you enjoy board games? if you answered “yes”, then you’ve probably played trivial pursuit. for those of you who haven’t had the pleasure, here’s how this classic game works… you move your “pie dish” around the circular game board depending on the color of the square your dish lands, you answer interesting and often obscure questions around geography (blue), sports & leisure (orange), science & nature (green) and so on. on certain larger squares, answering the right question gives you a colored slice of “pie” for your dish – get all the different colors first and you win! it’s a lot of fun, and i’ve had the pleasure of playing many times. but like most board games, trivial pursuit is… trivial. other than providing some light entertainment, the game doesn’t really matter in the grander scheme of the things. unfortunately, that’s an attitude copywriters can take when it comes to writing call to action copy. why calls to action are no trivial matter the handful of words that sit inside a button or link are often seen as mere afterthought: something you do when everything else on the page is done. but those handful of words hold incredible power in persuading people to click. copywriters usually oversee all the words on a page, but when your attention is on editing seductive sales copy or perfecting a jaw-dropping headline (both of which are important), buttons and links can easily get missed. the end result? you get unappealing, click-repelling calls to action like this: as a copywriter who’s paid to get “conversions” — conversions that are usually the result of a click — overlooking the call to action can hurt. it makes sense that for any writer ultimately judged by the results they deliver, the call to action should be high on their list of priorities the core of a cracking cta make no mistake, great copy is only one part of a great page. the same goes for the words in a click-worthy call to action. but writing the handful of copy that makes up the call to action can get lost in discussion around the other conversion-boosting elements. for example, conversion experts will also examine: the color of the button or link visual aids (like arrows) to highlight the button putting your calls to action in the right spots on the page the copy around your cta testing endless variations of your cta nail these factors and you’ll turn a good cta into a great one. but at the core of a call of action is… well, the call to action. the words that nudge, scream or prompt a visitor into making that click. an incredible example of the power of words can be found with veeam, a company specializing in backup software. a small change to one of their calls to action — from “request a quote” to “request pricing — got a 161% increase in the number of clicks. so, how do we write an equally irresistible call to action? let’s look at… 5 ways to craft a click-worthy call to action although there’s a lot you can do with a call to action (see the bullets above), these tips are focused purely on the copy itself. if you want to dig deeper into the other aspects, conversion xl has an excellent post that covers every angle, from page presentation to heat mapping. 1. put readers in the middle of the (call to) action it’s “web writing 101” that every word on your page should be written with your reader in mind. that goes double for your call to action. when you write your button or link copy, frame it in a way that directly puts the reader into that cta. this has been proven to be a powerfully persuasive element. to veer briefly into the conversion world, michael aagard at unbounce conducted several a/b tests that compared “you” vs “me” call to action copy. in one test, buttons with “create my account”, as opposed to “create your account” saw a 24.95% higher conversion rate. in another test, “start your free 30-day trial” vs “start my free 30-day trial” copy found a 90% increase in click through rate for the “my” version. john loomer, a marketer known for his fb advertising prowess, nails the “me” copy on his webinar page. 2. convey the consequences of the click your readers won’t click on buttons or links unless there’s a reason for them to do so. on the other hand, that’s exactly what you need them to do — whether it’s a link to another page or a button to sign up for something. so, spell it out for readers with command-driven copy that makes it easy for them to understand the consequences of them clicking. jo wiebe provides a handy template to nudge copywriters into an imperative style that still focuses on readers: “i want to ____________” (with _________ being your call to action copy) it can be as simple as “i want to join the club”, or a more exotic “i want to train giant seahorses to be underwater couriers”. either way, the formula’s there to help you remember: start with an action verb that spells out what the reader wants to do. the page for linkedin ads does just that with its two calls to action in the hero section. 3. harness the power of “start” not all your visitors are unfamiliar with what you’re offering. some of them will want to get stuck into things immediately. in other words, they’ll want to “get started”. that’s a popular phrase adorning a lot of buttons around the web, and there are good reasons for it. “starting” is simple, short and to-the-point. if visitors know what you have, starting makes perfect sense to them. starting’s also perceived as a positive action, and phrases like “get started” or “start now” encourage visitors to make that positive move. for example, join.me is simple, uncomplicated meeting software. what else do you need to do but “get started”? 4. be specific think of a button as a kind of a door for your readers. when they click, they “open” the door and step through. but often, they’re not totally sure what they’re getting themselves into. conveying the consequences of the click can help clear this up, but it’s even better when you can talk specifics with them. let’s look at a few different levels of specificity. copy like “sign up” or “watch demo” is a solid start. it tells readers what will happen behind the click, like the button on a salesforce landing page. but readers often have objections. in many cases, having to pay is one of the biggest worries readers have about clicking a button. by using more specific copy like “free sign up” or “try it free”, you communicate both the next step and reduce the “risk” of clicking the button (i.e. they’re not going to be forced to pull out the credit card). take the button on zoho’s social media tool landing page: sometimes, you might want to get even more specific. in the saas application world, trials are a common step in a marketing funnel. so, using copy like “try 30 days for free” helps to let readers know that they’re about to… join a trial, that’s free and lasts for 30 days. while this makes your button copy a touch longer, it’s often worth it: readers click the button knowing exactly what’s waiting for them. the call to action copy on basecamp’s homepage is a perfect example of super-specificity. 5. highlight the value of the action a call to action is what it is: a “calling” of readers to perform some sort of action. if the rest of your page and copy have done their job, a percentage of readers will click and act. but there’s another way to entice your readers to act, not by highlighting the action, but by pointing out the value. this is a great idea when you’re not sure if readers would be completely convinced by the time they hit your call to action (or “call to value”). local lead sherpa has a simple landing page with not much more than a video, image and a button. however, the button puts the spotlight completely on the value of contacting him. starting your calls to action with “get” is another way to highlight value. it puts what the reader’s getting front and center, encouraging them to act. take ppc course’s sign up page — the button makes sure there’s no mistaking what happens when a reader clicks. what are your buttons telling readers? as you can see, getting call to action copy spot on isn’t a matter of just throwing 3 or 4 words together. when you need to craft button or link copy that gets more people clicking, remember these techniques: put readers in the middle of the action convey the consequences of the click harness the power of “start” be specific highlight the value of an action do you have a favorite “go to” method when writing call to actions? let us know in the comments! author bio dean mackenzie is a copywriter helping businesses do more with their copy, especially around sales and landing pages, emails and funnels. he also enjoys a good cup of tea and speaking about himself in the third person. tweet pin share related posts how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? by laura tong about the author dean mackenzie ﻿dean mackenzie is a copywriter helping businesses do more with their copy, especially around sales and landing pages, emails and funnels. he also enjoys a good cup of tea and speaking about himself in the third person. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >