home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum posts by tag calvin harris 232 posts acceptable from the 2000s to the 2010s. have a read the briefing new music friday: let's hear it for the coy featuring a band named after a fish, calvin pretending not to be calvin, and two people called kali. have a read the briefing 2019's first great pop image: calvin harris, wearing a onesie, with a horse, in the snow a beautiful thing. have a read the briefing new music friday: sugar & spice and other things nice includes an asda shoutout. have a read the briefing little mix's 'touch' won last night's 2017 popjustice twenty quid music prize! here's what happened… sixty judges, loads of booze, one winner. have a read the briefing a parrot has been given an exclusive first listen of calvin harris' 'funk wav bounces vol 1' it seems pretty keen on the travis scott track. have a read the briefing new music friday: felix jaehn at the top, harry at the bottom, various songs in between also includes a man called jim from norway. hold on to your hats! have a read the briefing new music friday: bleachers at the top, demi lovato at the bottom, various songs in between a triumph from bleachers and a wet fart from demi lovato. have a read videos calvin harris — 'my way' have a read the briefing the week's best new releases: emeli sandé, calvin harris, jones and more includes justin timberlake and anna kendrick doing 'true colors' — don't say we didn't warn you. have a read videos john newman — 'olé' welcome to popjustice, a glorified pop blog celebrating 21st century pop, the people who make it, and the people who make the people who make it. more outlook for march 26: you are advised to stay indoors until duageddon passes physical by dua lipa is the biggest song right now for what it's worth apple music's most streamed song is rain (feat. tay keith) - aitch & aj tracey the best popstar is currently dua lipa and that's that 4 years, 1 month, 30 days since the last rihanna album pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits a variety of papier mache britney spears heads an interview with tove lo giorgio moroder interview: "i hated the moustache" further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled