skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us can blogs make an income without blogging about blogging? alex nerney updated: 12/13/19 • comments: 16 home » create and go blog » make money » can blogs make an income without blogging about blogging? disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin348 shares348 bloggers blogging about blogging… launching about launching… webinars about webinars… what in the world is going on here? is anyone actually making real money online who is not using the tactics listed above? is there anyone blogging about their passion and making an income in a separate niche? are you actually an expert or do you just pretend to be? is there really any experience behind all of this mumbo-jumbo? what if you are in a different niche? can blogs actually make an income without blogging about blogging? yes! they absolutely can! we do it every day. table of contents close open how we started making money with our health and wellness niche blog can you make a better income blogging about blogging than in other niches? the power of selling higher-priced products and services the role of traffic in the money equation so should i start blogging about blogging? how exactly do you make money in your niche? how we started making money with our health and wellness niche blog if you’re new to create and go, let me give you a little background about us. lauren and i started our first blog in the health and fitness niche. i was a personal trainer at the time, and she was just coming off a two-year stint as a hardcore vegan. we were both fanatics about health and fitness. learning it, living it… we loved it. that first blog ultimately failed, but that’s another story for another day. however, our second health and wellness blog, was not a failure… we continued to bust our butts to try to make our blog successful, and within just a few months of creating that second blog, we were earning over $10,000/month. we went on to earn $103,457.58 with this blog in our first year. it wasn’t until after we had earned six figures with our first blog in the health and wellness niche that we decided to start create and go to teach others the strategies that we had learned in our first year and a half of blogging. you can read more about our full story on our about us page. next, let’s go into some of the common questions you probably have: can you make a better income blogging about blogging than in other niches? we’re going to be very honest with you here. yes, you can. we know because create and go makes a lot more money than our health and wellness blog did — with a lot less traffic. why is this? well, first of all… it’s not just that “blogging about blogging” will make you the most money. any blog niche that allows you to sell higher-priced products will generally bring in more dolla dolla bills to your bottom line. and it just so happens that some niches are known for having a much higher market price for the average product or service: making money saving money investing money seeing a trend here? generally, people will pay more for a product if they believe they will earn it back and then some. so, people blogging in these niches are generally able to sell their products and services at a higher price. the power of selling higher-priced products and services okay, how about some good news? it’s not just about your blog niche. blogs in any niche can sell premium, high-priced products. sure, it’s a little harder. but if you can figure it out, you can fast-track yourself to six figures. and if you can’t figure out… well, you don’t have to sell high-priced products to reach six figures. we didn’t with our health and wellness blog. let’s talk about some basic consumer psychology. getting someone to buy a product for $197 is 10x easier when you’re convincing them they are going to make thousands of dollars in return after using it. the justification in the brain is as follows: “oh, well this is expensive, but i’m going to make that money right back!” compare this to the selling process we have with our audience interested in weight loss… we had to convince customers that paying $47 is worth the transformation they will see from our products. it’s a lot less money, but the results are less tangible and harder to visualize for most. because people on average try 4-5 diets per year, our audience were some of the most skeptical buyers of any industry, and our job was to convince them to spend their money with us based on feeling better about themselves. to quote the late david foster wallace: “that’s a whole different kettle of fish.” the role of traffic in the money equation there is another player in this game… let’s talk briefly about the role that traffic plays here. if you can’t or don’t want to sell a higher-priced product, you can choose to focus more on traffic to boost sales instead. this is more of the focus that we had with our health and wellness blog. health and weight loss topics have much higher search volume than money-related topics do. this means that health blogs generally get a lot more traffic than money-related blogs do. it also means that products and services in health and weight loss are more expensive, so the average product price is lower. but if instead of trying to sell a higher-priced product, you focus more on driving more traffic to your blog, you can make more sales! this is how we started earning over $20,000/month with our health and wellness blog. we focused on driving as much traffic as we could from pinterest. our article on pinterest for bloggers is a great resource if you haven’t explored this option yet or if you need some more help with it. so should i start blogging about blogging? noooooooooooo! here’s the deal… we have just demonstrated how we have turned two very different blogs in different niches into six-figure money machines. bottom line: you have tons of options when it comes to monetizing in various niches. and here is another thought to consider. if you haven’t made serious money online yet, you’re teaching people theories, not real strategies that have personally worked for you. it’s dishonest at best and lying at worst. you won’t have a great story, which is what helps to build trust with your audience and ultimately helps you sell products. and your readers will see through it. you won’t be able to connect with them as well as others who do have the experience. it’s just not worth it. find a blog niche that you are passionate about or have some experience in. how exactly do you make money in your niche? there are a variety of ways that most blogs earn their money — all with different levels of work involved and potential earnings. some of the most common ways that blogs can make money include: ad revenue sponsored posts services (coaching, consultations, etc.) affiliate marketing selling physical products selling digital products (ebooks and online courses) most of the money that we make blogging comes from a combination of affiliate marketing and selling online programs and courses. and y’all… we aren’t some “saints” trying to say we’re better than anyone else. we built this blog knowing full well that there was more potential for higher earnings. but we put in the work first and gained the experience by taking our first blog to six figures. and lauren and i are both business majors. business has always been a passion of ours. we just made sure we did it the right way. and we are here to teach you how to do it the right way too. you can blog about yoga, or kites, or shoes (whatever you’re into) to make an amazing income and live life on your terms. if you want to learn more about how the specific steps that we took to making six figures with our blogs, you can read more about it in our comprehensive guide on how to make money blogging. if you enjoyed this article on blogging about blogging or have any questions for us, please leave them in the comment section below! we’d love to hear from you! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin348 shares348 about alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. read this next how to make money blogging [from $1 to $100,000 per month] 2020 edition we had no idea we’d make $103,457.98 our first year blogging. honestly, that number seems so fake just typing it… like something you’d see in a movie or a dream. and that’s exactly why we created this website… because as crazy as it sounds, this is not a dream. this is a reality for many […] keep reading > similar articles make money google adsense for blogs [7 reasons why these ads suck] in 2020 affiliate marketing for bloggers (how we make over $25,000/month) how to create and sell digital products on your blog 7 real reasons why your blog is not succeeding see all blog posts 16 leave a reply 8 comment threads 8 thread replies 2 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 10 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest denys you did really good blogging about blogging about blogging. i actually have few niches to blog about, just need to put more time on it, and we need people that blog about blogging to find guide. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest lex reyes never knew that blogging can make you earn money? can you help me know more about this? i am interested to start my own blog you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey lex, you might find our post on how to make money blogging helpful. bloggers make money in a variety of ways, including through ads, affiliate marketing, selling your own products and services, and through sponsored posts. check out the above mentioned article for some success stories, and a step by step outline to get started yourself! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest brittany great article. i recently started blogging, but i’m more of an inspirational vs. informational blogger. so i realized that if i ever wanted to start monetizing, i need to offer some more “how to” posts. i’m just not sure where to go from there… and i’m starting to realize bloggers make a lot of money off other bloggers. i didn’t make the connection until i followed a pin on pinterest telling me about “the best affiliated marketing program!” after doing some digging i realized that their suggested “wealthy affiliate” was just a big loop of people pushing wealthy affiliate. i… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey brittany, a lot of bloggers do monetize that way, but just know that you don’t have to do it that way. there are also far more bloggers making tons of money in the hundreds of other niches out there – they just don’t publish their income because they have no need to. only bloggers teaching about money publish their income (because they use it as a teaching tool), so it looks like they’re the only ones making real money. it’s not true though. we started making $20,000 – $30,000/month with our health and wellness blog and no one would… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest wendy alex, i was a staff blogger for local publication for four years. combined with what i know about that and business over the years, i wanted to blog about blogging. however, do i need to create a new, separate blog to prove i know what i’m talking about? thanks in advance! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey, wendy. you don’t need to create a separate blog but do be transparent and tell your story often in your articles and on your home page. the thing you will need to consider is how you are going to pitch the money side. be careful in the beginning about how you talk about the money you made blogging before your blog is profitable. you made money as a staff blogger – not through monetizing your own blog. so just be transparent and honest about where you started and what led you to this point! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest wendy thanks so much! i will keep that in mind! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest niku but let’s be real, the only bloggers getting a lot of traffic instantly are bloggers blogging about blogging and especially from pinterest. it’s so instant and so easy. my point is, there are only a few niches you can make money from; fitness & health, food & recipes, travel, making money online, relationships etc you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey, niku. i disagree. our health and fitness blog got traffic much quicker than our blog about blogging, and it also gets a great deal more traffic. you can find people making money in almost any niche if you do some research. we know of a guy making tens of thousands of dollars every month selling board games about herbs… we have articles on our site with some additional websites in other niches that make money. simply search “successful blogs” on our website to check out those articles. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest arielle thank you for this information! i’m about to start a blog and have spent the past few weeks researching and reading articles how to start one. i’ve realized a pattern among many of these blogs that their income is coming from teaching others how to make money and not necessarily from their blog. i’ll be starting my blog my last day of high school (in a couple of days) and finally write something. thank you for being honest and genuine and not shoving bluehost into our faces in every other article! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thank you for the feedback, arielle! good luck on starting your first blog! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest desitny thanks for this topic! i’m a new blogger trying to generate income in my niche that is not centered around teaching others to blog. somehow i got caught up subscribing to other bloggers blogs about blogging and bought useless products. i came to the realization that there’s a lot of bloggers “blogging about blogging” who have no idea what they’re talking about. it’s been a frustrating process. thanks for being honest and putting it out there. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thanks, destiny! honesty and transparency in everything that we do is what we strive for! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest amber thank you so much for this article! i am in the very early stages of starting my blog and find myself over-thinking and “researching” more than actually putting work into the blog. you guys are so upbeat and positive! thank you for being honest rather than trying to get everyone and their mom to sign up with bluehost. because, well, done and done! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 years ago admin alex and lauren hey amber! thank you so much for the kind words! we really appreciate it, because we are truly trying to be honest about our approaches with blogging based on our experiences so far. we want to help others reach their goals and fast, and we know how easy it can be to talk the talk without putting in the work. we just want to show others how to simplify the process and train their focus on what truly matters and what will help their long-term growth more than anything. thank you for the support! -lauren 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 years ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents how we started making money with our health and wellness niche blog can you make a better income blogging about blogging than in other niches? the power of selling higher-priced products and services the role of traffic in the money equation so should i start blogging about blogging? how exactly do you make money in your niche? footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz