all systems operational ask the community english (us) deutsch español (españa) français (france) português do brasil 简体中文 sign in cloudflare help center popular searches: ddos cdn 2fa error 5xx slow site traffic spike subdomain cname 522 502 all systems operational detailed system status > articles in this section caution when enabling query string sort with wordpress admin pages using cloudflare with wix website builder what settings are applied when i click "apply default settings" in cloudflare's magento 2 extension? using cloudflare with your magento 1 online store problems logging into magento 1 admin panel caching html with drupal what does automatic cache management in the cloudflare plugin do? how do i enable http/2 server push in wordpress caching static html with wordpress/woocommerce what settings are applied when i click "apply default settings" in cloudflare's magento extension? see more connect with the cloudflare community get answers cloudflare help center third-party software content management system (cms) can i use wordpress caching plugins like super cache or w3 total cache (w3tc) with cloudflare? follow updated february 13, 2017 14:30 it is possible to cache the html of a wordpress site at cloudflare's edge using a feature known as "bypass cache on cookie". this can dramatically improve the speed of your website and reduce server load; in cases where the html is cached cloudflare will not need to make a roundtrip to your web server. in order to utilise this feature, please see the article: caching static html with wordpress/woocommerce. cloudflare is able to proxy http traffic of any website, including wordpress sites with third-party performance plugins installed, however please note that these plugins are installed at your own risk. facebook twitter linkedin was this article helpful? 18 out of 27 found this helpful return to top not finding what you need? searching can help answer 95% of support questions. this is the quickest way to get answers. ask the community submit a request popular searches: ddos cdn 2fa error 5xx slow site traffic spike subdomain cname 522 related articles caching static html with wordpress/woocommerce using cloudflare with wordpress speed up wordpress and improve performance what settings are applied when i click "optimize cloudflare for wordpress" in cloudflare's wordpress plugin? what does rocket loader do? not finding what you need? searching can help answer 95% of support questions. this is the quickest way to get answers. ask the community submit a request popular searches: ddos cdn 2fa error 5xx slow site traffic spike subdomain cname 522 502 sales enterprise sales become a partner contact sales: +1 (650) 319 8930 getting started industry analysts pricing case studies white papers webinars learning center community community hub blog project galileo athenian project developers developers hub cloudflare workers integrations support help center cloudflare status compliance gdpr company about cloudflare investor relations our team press careers internet summit logo network map english (us) deutsch español (españa) français (france) português do brasil 简体中文 © cloudflare, inc. | privacy policy | terms of use | trust & safety | trademark