can i play too? insert funny thing here – lol menu skip to content home about updates and what not leave a reply hey everybody – so it has been a crazy large amount of time since i’ve written. life has been going along at a very nice clip – well no its been a big loop of things. the processor and video card on my computer needs to be updated – which is out of my budget for now. one of the screens i usually use also shut down – kicked the bucket. i was very very lucky that the it guys gave me one. so back to 2 screens (dam i’m a spoiled fuck aren’t i?) anyway after taking the computer apart and dusting all the parts and resetting everything it works again. i don’t know why but it does. so it depressed me like seriously. i have been streaming pretty regular, got followers and subs and everything – not hugh numbers. in truth i just couldn’t play anything – i mean of course i just went deeper into my stash of games and rediscovered some i hadn’t played in a long while. i also have a trial amazon prime account and i went to check out what shows they had. one that i had heard a lot about is the expanse – holy gosh if you haven’t seen it trust me it’s worth it. i like science fiction a lot – but not usually space opera stuff, whelp this was for sure worth it. i’m already on the 3rd season. i love that i can watch them on my amazon tablet (which is also old as dirt). it’s exciting stuff for sure. been working with the resins and pigments as well – small pieces but they have been coming along well with the uv resin. this weekend i plan on trying the regular resin. hopefully i will be able to figure it out and it works well. i need a new camera so i can take pictures of stuff. i haven’t decided yet whats gonna happen with this blog as of yet. i want to keep it, and don’t worry i will. i just need to get a nice schedule going on ideas. listen thanks everyone who has been following me so far – you are all so amazing and i hope this year lifts us all up… this entry was posted in uncategorized on january 2, 2020 by sunnybunny. life update leave a reply hey everyone – i hope life is finding you well enough to do the things that need doing. for me i am progressing in a forward motion, that’s good right? i am still working way more hours then i would like – but that’s how i pay the bills. i stopped streaming for about 3 months – i didn’t want it to go that far but it did. last week i decided to jump back into the pool. i streamed on friday & twice on saturday – i figured they were my 2 days off so i could really focus on what i wanted to do. it was fun – i’m actually happy that i decided to do it again. i even got my audio stuff together (i was having an issue with volume control). i cried a bit on saturdays stream because i got 5 subscribers, i know it doesn’t seem like a lot, but considering i only had 1 a while ago it was still a nice thing. so you know what that means? working on badges, lucky for me i have ideas on what to do for that. i also streamed for an hour last night, i figured if i’m gonna play maybe someone will like to watch me play. i still don’t have a camera yet, i have been told i should get one. right now i stream in my living room since that’s where the computer is. but i have a walk in closet that is just storage right now, the plan this week is to get it cleared out and move everything into there. that way if i’m loud i’m not disturbing anyone else in the house. if you want come by and watch me try and relearn like every thing. i have also started on a new path in regards to jewelry making – as in now i’m using resins to not only make pieces, but to also give a more finished look to pieces i have done already. i know it sounds like i have my hands in a lot of pots, because in a way i guess i do. it’s all part of being on this path to being a more true version of myself. a bit of a fuzzy picture – sorry i’m also using different types of clay – i’ll keep everyone updated on how that goes lol. this picture is a pair of dragon scale earrings that i wasn’t happy with but decided to fill in with resin, i swear they look better in person lol. to be honest, i am a but of a cute obsessive – not that you would know by my everyday look. i think it has something to do with growing up around an older brother and uncles and boy cousins – so that tomboy part came out and sort of stuck. had very few times to be a girly girl. now that i’m older i have moments. i admit i really enjoy the making of these things – i’m gonna start with fake sweets and move on from there. besides that things are going as they should…maybe lol stay classy you guys. this entry was posted in trying, what am i talking about? on november 19, 2019 by sunnybunny. fallout 76 and life things leave a reply so i haven’t written in a while – we all know why…its called life. i think since the passing of my grandmother in august i have been reevaluating a lot of things going on and getting things focused. the way i see it is i’m gonna live till 97 (which is how old she was when she passed away) i might as well live more the way i want to. one thing that has been happening is that i want to move. not out of state or anything like that but to a different apartment in the building i am currently in. i had asked about it a few weeks ago and hadn’t heard anything till yesterday. the landlord said they would be interested in letting me move into the smaller apartment. i’m excited about it – they won’t raise my rent but they will include electricity and heat – plus a washing machine and dryer. after crunching the numbers it actual does save me some in the long run. so that’s a positive for sure. i’m hoping to get a looks see of the space again soon so i can make my measurements and figure out how to divide it out better. i already know i’m gonna have to divide it a bit more but if nothing i’m good at planning. so that’s what the home base situation looks like as of right now. now i have been playing fallout 76 as well – i was feeling burnt out from elder scrolls online and guild wars 2 so i figured i’d jump back into the country life – lol. i logged in and of course redid the look of my character – but the most exciting bit for me is i found a cool head piece that i have lusted after for a while – no it’s not the bunny head (i’m keeping an eye out for that one still it is actually the witch one……here is a pic i know she looks so bad ass doesn’t she ^_^. i’m still not 100% with the build just yet but i’m working on it a bit at a time. the game has enough variety to keep me coming back when i feel the sword and board burn out coming. the no human npc’s thing is ok as well, for now. while playing last night i was at a train station when another human person showed up out of nowhere, it was funny to finally see another person (i’m not gonna lie they startled me). i waved like a good neighbor and then continued on with the random things i was doing. there are events going on as well – apparently i missed the meat week (not a surprise really). i did get some of the free stuff from it though so that was good. there will be a halloween event, it starts october 29th till november 5th and it’s called mischief night. i have no idea what is gonna happen, but i’m stoked anyways. whelp that’s all for right now, i do have a couple of other things in the works but thats for another post – later gaters. this entry was posted in fallout 76, what am i talking about? on october 22, 2019 by sunnybunny. my end of an era leave a reply so as everyone knows i am a hugh elder scrolls online fan and have been playing it since beta. it is a world one can get lost in and discover new things. recently (the past 2 months or so now) i have been playing it less and less. i log in every couple of days to do my crafting writes and honestly that’s about all i do. i bounce mail off other players so it won’t be deleted. but the lure of it has become less and less. with the eso plus i am able to have a lot of perks that none sub players don’t have. access to content etc. etc. so last night i let my sub laps. that’s right i didn’t pay for this month and i’m not sure how i feel about it to be honest. i want to say i was upset but to be factual i really wasn’t – i have gone back to guild wars 2 and i don’t want to say i’m loving it but i’m doing the things. there are so many things i’m still figuring out and discovering about the game. i’m unlocking content and it has been interesting to say the least. in some ways it is a grind but the option to sort of just go out and do stuff or follow the main quest line is a seller for me. don’t get me wrong elder scrolls is the same but in a different way. it might have to do with the fact that my gaming buddy is also playing the game and he dragged me back into it. (gw2 that is). he of course has so much more time to dedicate to it then i do. maybe i’m just getting old and loosing interest in a lot of things. i still have the fall out games which i dabble in every once i a while but it’s not so much fun to play those games alone you know? i might have to figure it out as i go like i usually do. but if you see me running around either world – just give a quick wave and let an old lady know she’s still noticed ^_^ this entry was posted in elder scrolls online, what am i talking about? on september 30, 2019 by sunnybunny. free coffee day leave a reply so i just wanted to start off with an fyi – it is buy one get one free at dunkin donuts. i found this happy joy moment out at 6:45am when i went for my fix before work. so whats been going down? most recent i got sick, some dang virus from my child who got it from school. coughing and spent my 2 days off sleeping most of the day and highly drugged. i regret nothing of course, although i am still dragging ass a bit. we have an out break of fucking bedbugs in my apartment building. let me tell you its the most annoying thing ever. this is the forth time this has happened. i bought a hand held steamer to help with the problem, best $100 i ever spent. it sucks because i have to steam everyday, the mattresses and the carpet. then pour rubbing alcohol all around the seams of the mattress and the crease where the carpet meets the wall. i have 2 mattress protectors on the mattress so that’s good. the land lord is cheap and doesn’t want to spend the money for the best service. so wednesday they sent someone after i threatened to call the health department again. the guy sprayed and it was good for all of one day then they were back again. my arms are covered with bites and no matter how much people tell you otherwise the bites fucking hurt and itch, they wake up my son and i. i have nearly no furniture in my apartment because everything has been infested at this point. i want to move but of course i can’t right now because of budget. so i suffer on. i have all things packed in plastic bags – why bags you say? simple when i tried to put things in boxes the fucking things would get into them. i’ve had to throw away a bunch of my books simply because they are covered in the eggs and poop of these litter fuckers. i bought some tupboxes which seem to help keep the clothing clean and bug free. it’s still annoying as fuck. i need to get some more on friday when i get paid. so i’ll just be living in a storage unit now *shrug* but besides that you know life goes on…. this entry was posted in uncategorized on september 29, 2019 by sunnybunny. yeah not even close 1 reply so it’s the 29th as two more months till the end of blaugust – and i failed. mainly because of my grandmother passing away, i’ve been feeling like nothing and everything. i spent a good amount of time just working and vegging out. the last few days i have been a lot more active i think. i’m looking to make some life changes which is always good. so last night i went to walmart to buy some school supplies for the boy; it was a decent time. i decided to buy a new shower curtain and felt like an adult. i know it sounds weird to equate a shower curtain with adulting but it felt good (i also got a tooth brush holder). i’ve been spending a lot of time writing – it’s like this flood gate has opened and i’m jumping on it. i’m determined to become the person i want to be. this entry was posted in blaugust 2019, what am i talking about? on august 29, 2019 by sunnybunny. really? leave a reply i was sort of stuck on what to title this post and i have to say really? sums it up. due to the family things i’ve been dealing with and the 100% death of my tablet i have rotated my entertainment life. i have am amazon kindle fire 7 from like 2014. it has the amazing packing tape screen (dropped once to much) – but i can still use it to read books and play really simple games. so something i had been meaning to do and putting off, was to get through my amazon reading list. one of the things i kinda like about amazon is you can self publish – you get a decent percentage off book sales – even if the book is listed as free you get something. the down side is you kinda start collecting free books after a while lol. a few years back i started downloading free books – why not right? it was nice to have the classics and cook books. they also have free comics which is always a plus as far as i’m concerned. i read a bunch of new things too, and on very rare occasions i actually would buy the next book in the series. (that’s how you know i like it if i pay for it). as of today looking at my list i own 672 books; i have read about 100 of them. some of them have been really good – and others not so much. i try and remember to leave a review for each one i finish, unless i really didn’t like it. you know the saying – you don’t have anything nice to say don’t say it at all. most of the stories are litrpg, fantasy, space opera, alternate history, supernatural, etc, etc… the reason i read these the most is because it is also the genre i write in. i am also very, very guilty of reading “trashy” books. we called them bodice rippers when i was a kid. that book that was on the very top shelf of the book case in your house. they cost something like $1….the ones with fabio on the cover. you know the ones. *wink,wink* so now they are called erotic “insert your own thing here”, no pun intended. they have like 3 covers – the cheerful perky one, the dark one and the ones with the “perfect” body image on the cover. and they all kinda read the same as well: poor girl meets rich guy who whisks her away to a dream life all while spanking her. sad unloved girl meets alpha “insert wereanimal” woman get seduced by boss and have kinky office fling everyone confuses sex with love 100 shades of nope yes, yes i know it’s fantasy and i’m not gonna lie these writers sell a good amount of book – but come onnnnn. so i went in search of variety. mainly because of something i’ve been working on. let me tell you it was not much better. main character is a big woman – instantly she is frumpy main character is a minority – instantly thug boyfriend, 5 baby daddies, drug addict, falls for drug dealer. this weird mafia lover thing that i can’t even explain. main character gay – i can’t even describe the types of wrong. why is this an issue for me – if i don’t like it then don’t read it. yeah i hear you..100% but i am reading it to know exactly what not to do. i think i sometimes feel bad because i can see the story, you know? like i understand where they were trying to go but getting there was a lot. or the ending just sort of fizzled out – like they just wanted to be done with it and i get that. i can be the same way when writing things. one shot stories – like just this scene and that’s it. which is valid and you can do that you just gotta know that’s what you’re doing. it also gives me hope, hope that so many writers are trying to live their dreams. that someone out there is writing every single fantasy they have ever had and publishing it. that stuff that would in no way actually be published but is getting out there and hopefully inspiring others to write. ok thats my rant and i’m done…love your faces this entry was posted in blaugust 2019, obsession / hobby, what am i talking about? on august 24, 2019 by sunnybunny. post navigation ← older posts search for: recent posts updates and what not life update fallout 76 and life things my end of an era free coffee day recent comments sunnybunny on a time of grieving marathal on yeah not even close mywords2228 on a time of grieving sunnybunny on mount love (not in a naughty… sylow on mount love (not in a naughty… archives january 2020 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 august 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 january 2018 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 august 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 categories #atozblogchallenge #atozblogchallenge2017 #blaugust2018 #blaugustreborn #guild wars 2 blaugust 2019 elder scrolls online fallout 76 obsession / hobby other games i'm playing second life sims 4 trying uncategorized what am i talking about? meta register log in entries feed comments feed wordpress.com blog at wordpress.com. can i play too? blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy