start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising relationships advertising published on march 26, 2020 can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? carol morgan dr. carol morgan is the owner of hersidehisside.com, a communication professor, dating & relationship coach, tv personality, speaker, and author. read full profile share pin it tweet share email when you get into a relationship – whether it’s romantic or platonic – you think that it will bring you happiness. not many people go into relationships thinking that it is going to make them unhappy, right? unfortunately, there are many relationships in the world that are very unhealthy. in fact, you can call them downright toxic. think of the word “toxic.” it means poisonous. it means detrimental to your health. hazardous. potentially deadly. usually we use that word to describe things other than people that could potentially kill us – rat poison, hard drugs, too much alcohol or smoking, unhealthy eating, carbon monoxide, etc. you get the point. however, people and relationships can be just as dangerous to your well-being as any of the above mentioned substances. the problem is that it’s not as easy to identify the toxicity when it comes to a person. so, let’s begin by talking about how to recognize the signs of a toxic relationship. table of contents 11 signs of a toxic relationship can a toxic relationship turn healthy? how to fix a toxic relationship bottom line more tips on how to deal with toxic relationships 11 signs of a toxic relationship some people grew up in toxic families. maybe there was verbal, emotional, and/or physical abuse. whether it’s between parents or between the parent(s) and children, it’s still an unhealthy and toxic environment to grow up in.[1] if someone is from a family such as this, perhaps they will not even recognize if and when they are in a toxic relationship. advertising if you’re not sure why you continuously enter toxic relationships, this article could help you figure it out. here are some signs of a toxic relationship: 1. one gives, the other takes one-sided relationships are never healthy. many times, you will have a narcissist/people-pleaser dynamic in a toxic relationship (especially if it’s a romantic one). one person gives and gives and gives, hoping to make the narcissist happy, but it never works. they just take and take and take, and then the relationship is much too lopsided and unhealthy. 2. gaslighting gaslighting is another common characteristic of a toxic relationship. if you’re not familiar with the term, it is when someone manipulates another person to a point where that person questions their sanity. for example, perhaps the last time you saw your significant other, you both agreed to go to the zoo on sunday. however, when you bring it up later to confirm your plans, the person says, “i never said i wanted to go to the zoo. i don’t even like the zoo.” it leaves the other person wondering about themselves. when this is a habit in a relationship, it can turn toxic. 3. lack of personal responsibility if one or both people are constantly blaming the other person for anything and everything, then that is definitely a sign of a toxic relationship. as the saying goes, “it takes two to tango.” both people are responsible for their own behaviors, and the other can’t “make” you do anything. therefore, playing a victim of the other person’s behaviors is not productive, and it just leads to an unhealthy relationship. advertising 4. lack of trust in a toxic relationship, there will not be much trust. it could be that neither trusts the other, or it could be one-sided. either way, the lack of trust acts like a poison in the relationship. trust should be the foundation that any relationship is built upon. without it, it’s like trying to build a house on quicksand. it will never work! 5. a feeling of walking on eggshells maybe it feels like you never know if the other person is going to explode. there might be tempers raging, and because of that, you feel like you have to tip-toe around the person so that they don’t get angry. 6. disrespect disrespect comes in many forms. it could be verbal, such as, “you’re stupid! you’re an idiot! you will never amount to anything in life!” or, it could be emotional: “i never loved you! no one loves you! you are unlovable!” or, it could be physical. any time a hand is laid on another person in anger, or unloving words are spoken, that is disrespectful and ultimately unacceptable in a healthy relationship. 7. lack of effective communication neither person knows how to communicate effectively. this comes in many forms. it could be a total withdrawal, which results in a lack of communication. or, it could be in the form of yelling, screaming, and name-calling (which is technically communication, but horribly ineffective). 8. avoidance many times, we only think of toxic relationships as being argumentative, abusive, or intense on some other level. however, they can also be stagnant and avoidant. if one or both people withdraw from the relationship and don’t connect with the other person, that can turn toxic as well – especially if it goes on long-term. 9. controlling behavior perhaps one person doesn’t want the other one to go out with their friends, see their family, or do anything else without them present. maybe they need to track their every move on an app so they know where they are. they could even control what they wear or what they eat. any kind of controlling behavior such as this is a key ingredient for a toxic relationship. advertising 10. constant criticism one or both people are constantly criticizing anything and everything about the other person. it could be their looks, intelligence, motivation, job, weight, education – you name it. if criticism is flying around all the time, then you know you are in a toxic relationship. 11. low self-esteem and self-worth all of the above-mentioned characteristics of a toxic relationship inevitably lead to low self-esteem and self-worth. when you are constantly being criticized, controlled, disrespected, blamed, and sucked dry of your efforts, then anyone would end up feeling badly about themselves. relationships should make you feel good about yourself, not bad. can a toxic relationship turn healthy? many people in a toxic relationship want to make it better. the most common reason for this is because they claim to love the other person. but think about it. why do you love another person who does so much damage to you and your relationship? love should feel good, not bad. therefore, while it is possible to turn a toxic relationship healthy, it is not easy, and, unfortunately, it’s not very common either. however, that doesn’t mean it can’t be done.[2] how to fix a toxic relationship fixing a toxic relationship is very difficult, but here are a few things you can do to start down that path. 1. cut off contact for a while sometimes it’s best to just get out of the relationship for a while and take a break. get some perspective and think about it for a while before you try to fix it. 2. identify the problems you can’t change what you don’t recognize. therefore, if you don’t know what the problems are, then you can’t fix it. take some time to talk with your significant other about the problems facing the relationship. if they don’t want to participate, try writing down what you see as the problems and share them when they are ready. 3. engage in self-reflection both people need to be mature enough to look deep in themselves and see what kind of positive changes they need to make. without the desire or motivation to change, the relationship isn’t going to improve. advertising 4. seek professional help many times, people cannot do the inner work and self-reflection on their own. therefore, getting professional help from a therapist can help each individual work on their problems while also helping the relationship improve through couple’s therapy. 5. stop blaming in toxic relationships, people always place blame on the other person, but that will only continue the toxic cycles. through the inner work and therapy, you need to take personal responsibility for your actions. again, both people need to do this. 6. use “i-language” “i-language” is a language of responsibility. it explains to the other person how you feel without blaming them. it helps decrease defensiveness in the relationship. instead of beginning a sentence with “you always…” try starting it with something like “i get upset when you…”. 7. change your behavior once you both have identified what you need to change within yourself and in the relationship, then you need to make changes. without the changes, you will go right back to where you were before. you can even use specific written goals and check in once a week to see how well you’re doing with the changes you plan to make as a couple. 8. maintain the changes in the future many people are good at changing for a short amount of time, but after a while, they will go back to their old habits. in order to really change the relationship and make it healthy, the changes need to become permanent. bottom line toxic relationships create emotional stress, which in turn affects all parts of your life – including your physical body. no one should be subjected to this kind of relationship. if you find yourself in an unhealthy relationship, you have three choices: stay in it and put up with the toxic environment. (not recommended) get out of the relationship and don’t have any contact with the person ever again. (this might be the only option for most people.) take the steps to heal the relationship and take it from toxic to healthy. the third option is not impossible, but it does take a lot of work. in the long run, hopefully you will both come out as better and happier human beings. more tips on how to deal with toxic relationships what is a toxic relationship and how to deal with it. 16 deal breakers for people who are stuck in toxic relationships how to overcome the pain of a toxic relationship featured photo credit: milan popovic via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ time: how to tell if you’re in a toxic relationship — and what to do about it [2] ^ mpra: human networks and toxic relationships share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next why you keep getting into toxic relationships (and how to stop) what is a toxic relationship and how to deal with it. how to overcome the pain of a toxic relationship advertising advertising more by this author carol morgan dr. carol morgan is the owner of hersidehisside.com, a communication professor, dating & relationship coach, tv personality, speaker, and author. can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? how to become a successful motivational speaker (step-by-step guide) how to handle a cheating spouse how to get out of an abusive relationship and start afresh 18 pieces of marriage advice for a happy and lasting relationship advertising trending in relationships 1 how being vulnerable leads to a healthy and fulfilling relationship 2 10 core values of a lasting relationship 3 can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? 4 how to make long distance relationships work for you 5 5 powerful ways journal writing changes your life more by this author carol morgan dr. carol morgan is the owner of hersidehisside.com, a communication professor, dating & relationship coach, tv personality, speaker, and author. can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? how to become a successful motivational speaker (step-by-step guide) how to handle a cheating spouse how to get out of an abusive relationship and start afresh 18 pieces of marriage advice for a happy and lasting relationship trending in relationships 1 how being vulnerable leads to a healthy and fulfilling relationship 2 10 core values of a lasting relationship 3 can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? 4 how to make long distance relationships work for you 5 5 powerful ways journal writing changes your life read next 16 deal breakers for people who are stuck in toxic relationships how to build loyalty in your relationship how to handle a cheating spouse 15 relationship milestones that are worth celebrating advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in relationships 1 how being vulnerable leads to a healthy and fulfilling relationship 2 10 core values of a lasting relationship 3 can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? 4 how to make long distance relationships work for you 5 5 powerful ways journal writing changes your life read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.