skip to content (press enter) home blog seo off page seo article submission forum posting pdf submission ping submission profile creation web 2.0 search engine submission on page seo advanced link building tools trim url social media facebook twitter linkedin pinterest social media tools interview services consulting digital marketing ppc seo social media seo mumbai seo new york seo social media verification facebook verification twitter verification instagram verification about advertise contact contribute featured make a donation list of donors invite bloggers rahul yadav digital marketing consultant & seo expert delhi, india home blog seo off page seo article submission forum posting pdf submission ping submission profile creation web 2.0 search engine submission on page seo advanced link building tools trim url social media facebook twitter linkedin pinterest social media tools interview services consulting digital marketing ppc seo social media seo mumbai seo new york seo social media verification facebook verification twitter verification instagram verification about advertise contact contribute featured make a donation list of donors invite bloggers can’t verify your facebook business page? try this i often get asked how to get the facebook verification for business pages. it is a rather quick and painless process that can give your online credibility a real boost. having that little grey or blue tick next to your page name indicates that your page is the official representation of your business. whilst this process isn’t necessary for every person or business, there are a number of reasons to consider do it, including: as an individual, having your page verified adds legitimacy to your name and your reputation as a public figure. if your business name is similar to others, getting it verified ensures your customers know which page belongs to you. if an unofficial page exists for your company e.g. a fan page or, a deliberate attempt to impersonate your business – verification adds much needed credibility to your page. it is a simple process, that i encourage all business and page owners to do. in this post, i share my tips for achieving your facebook verification. what kind of facebook verification do i need there are two different types of badges available to pages: a grey tick and a blue one. the blue tick next to a page name indicates the authenticity of a global brand, media company or public figure. here are some examples: a grey tick on the other hand, confirms the authenticity of a local business or organisation. if you can provide documentation to show that you’re a legitimate local business, you should apply for the grey tick. here are some examples of local businesses or organisations with the grey facebook verification: some global brands may actually have both ticks. if they use parent/child pages (aka location pages), the parent page will display a blue tick, while the individual location pages will display the grey local business tick. how to get verified as a local business – grey tick according to facebook, there are a number of elements that need to be in place before you have the option to become a verified as a local business. your page needs to: be classified as a local business, company or organisation have a profile photo have a cover photo if these three things are in place, and you are personal admin of the page, you should see the option to verify the page under settings. simply click on “settings” at the top right of your page, then “general”, then “page verification” click on “verify this page” or “edit” (if you don’t see the, ‘verify this page’ link). you will then be asked to provide a publicly-listed phone number for your business, your country and your language. if you don’t have a publicly listed number, or you simply prefer to verify your page using documentation, you can do this here. finally, click “call me now” to have facebook send you a 4-digit verification code. enter this code and your done! facebook will usually notify you within a few days if your verification has been successful. how to get verified as a public figure or global brand – blue tick whilst getting your facebook verification as a local business is relatively straightforward, receiving that coveted blue badge is a little tricker. many people believe that facebook awards these badges on their own accord. while it is true that they often automatically verify pages for well-known celebrities and brands, there is a way to manually apply for it as well. your first step will be to see if facebook deems your page eligible for blue tick verification. simply go to the request a verified badge form (make sure you’re logged in using your admin account) and see whether you have any eligible pages. if it shows you’re not eligible don’t worry – you have other options. while you can’t manually submit a facebook verification request for a business or brand, you can request verification as a public figure, brand or entertainer. before you start this process, there are some elements that need to be in place first: make sure your page category is set to “public figure” (if this is the route you want to take). include any media reference in the awards section of your page (“as seen on forbes & huffington post”). direct links are even better. your website url ensure you’ve filled out all page information in detail. regularly share content from your website to your facebook page. purchasing some facebook ads through your page is also advisable. if some time has passed since you started this process, you can go back to the verification request form to see if your page has since been deemed eligible. if it hasn’t, you will need to use the facebook mentions app to apply – simply download the app, enter your name, and select “my page or profile isn’t verified”. you will then be taken to a form where you’ll need to do the following: indicate whether you are trying to verify your profile or page select your page name from the drop down menu upload a photo of a government issued id enter your website url click “send” and you’re done! while verification isn’t a necessity, it does give your page an added boost of credibility. verifying a local business is quick and easy, and you can get your grey badge within just a few days. getting that blue badge can be a lot tricker, but using the tips above should help you. search for: “i’m an indiblogger!” hi, i am rahul yadav a digital marketing consultant and seo expert in delhi, india. i work with new startups, entrepreneurs, freelancers, and bloggers. i am a professional blogger and i write, speak, and consult mostly about how to blog tips, seo news, products reviews, inbound marketing, social media marketing etc. related posts: how to get verified on facebook: a step-by-step guide how to get your brand 'verified' on instagram how to invite all facebook friends to like a page or event 15 business listing sites to list your business right now $100 off bing ads coupons & promo codes how to optimize your facebook page for local searches 6 essential steps to increase facebook organic reach how to get more likes on your facebook page the ultimate guide to local seo marketing how to use facebook to promote your blog 11 ways to improve google my business & maps rankings how to start increasing your facebook page likes how to install a free ssl certificate on wordpress types of seo - white hat & black hat seo 7 best local search engine of india – local business… recent posts top 20 graphic designing company in india an interview with victor blasco, ceo yum yum videos an interview with stuart walker from nichehacks sorav jain from echovme – an interview on digital marketing legal and technical hurdles surrounding online casino in india top 10 digital marketing training institute in ahmedabad top 10 social media marketing companies in delhi top 10 best tech websites you should bookmark right now top 5 digital marketing institutes and training course in ambala 9 ways to really boost your ecommerce project about us rahul yadav is a digital marketing consultant from new delhi, india. he is also an author, speaker and trainer in the field of digital marketing. he trains students, professionals and business men on digital marketing. related posts: how to get verified on facebook: a step-by-step guide instagram verification service! (get verified badge… social media verification services | facebook… twitter verified badge & verification services recent posts top 20 graphic designing company in india an interview with victor blasco, ceo yum yum videos an interview with stuart walker from nichehacks sorav jain from echovme – an interview on digital marketing categories categories select category adsense affiliate marketing ahmedabad amazon analysis android apps australia blogger blogging business chennai content coupon courses deals delhi digital marketing dubai ecommerce email marketing facebook fashion food guest blogging guest post guwahati haryana health hosting hyderabad ias iit instagram interview interview questions jaipur kerala keyword research laptop link building linkedin make money malaysia mumbai new zealand noida orm paid post pakistan patna pinterest podcast ppc pune seo singapore snapchat social media sri lanka startup tool travel twitter uncategorized updated vlogging web design wordpress youtube partner with rahul digital copyright © 2020 rahul yadav. creative business | developed by rara theme. powered by wordpress.