engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field latest in gaming capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas 56m ago view sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 3h ago view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field 3h ago view engadget podcast: how games (and animal crossing!) are keeping us sane 7h ago view image credit: capcom capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas the xbox one version of the beta is unaffected and starts today. marc deangelis 56m ago comments 14 shares share tweet share sponsored links capcom the remake of resident evil 3 will be out in just a few weeks, but capcom wanted to give eager gamers the chance to play resident evil resistance -- a multiplayer game that comes with resident evil 3 -- a bit early. the publisher had planned on opening a public beta today on steam, ps4 and xbox one, but only the latter has launched on time, as the company announced that technical issues have caused delays for the steam and ps4 versions. capcom didn't mention what exactly those problems are, or how long it expects the delay to last. only 14 days remain until the retail launch of both titles, so hopefully the beta will be available shortly -- otherwise the sneak peek would be rather pointless. resident evil resistance plots four "survivors" against an evil "mastermind." the player who takes on the role of the mastermind can set traps and unleash monsters against the survivors, who have to use their wits to escape. capcom said in a tweet, "due to technical issues, there is a delay for the [resident evil] resistance open beta on ps4 and steam. the [xbox one] version is unaffected and is available. we're working to resolve the issue as soon as we can and will keep you updated. apologies for the inconvenience." while this could be disappointing for resident evil die-hards, the fact that the full game's release is imminent should be a consolation. plus, the demo of resident evil 3 is available for anyone who really needs to scratch that survival horror itch. in this article: av, beta, capcom, delay, games, pc games, pc gaming, ps4, resident evil, resident evil 3, resident evil resistance, steam, survival horror, xbox one, news, gaming all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments 14 shares share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr