menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies capricorn capricorn these are the zodiac signs everyone loves to hate lacey ramburger the hidden secrets of a capricorn woman mackenzie mickavicz the most compatible signs for a virgo, based on what i’ve learned while being with them kelly peacock 14 things everyone needs to know about the capricorn in their life andrea davis everything you need to know about the capricorn in your life january nelson latest capricorn articles these are the zodiac signs everyone loves to hate lacey ramburger “ sadly, the number of songs talking about two-faced geminis aren’t doing you any favors. what the full moon in capricorn means for each zodiac sign a.t. nunez “ cancer – the lunar eclipse will show the value of preserving those who are worth it in your life. the hidden secrets of a capricorn woman mackenzie mickavicz “ her steps are slow. she looks twice before crossing the street. her face is slightly hidden from the world. the most compatible signs for a virgo, based on what i’ve learned while being with them kelly peacock “ from what i’ve experienced, virgos seem to get along best with four specific signs, depending on a romantic relationship or a deep friendship. the soulmate potential of a pisces-capricorn relationship maria monrovia “ when a pisces and a capricorn fall in love, neither may even notice until it’s too late — it happens slowly, and then all at once. new years resolutions for your zodiac element kelly peacock “ remember: you’re growing. let it happen. 14 things everyone needs to know about the capricorn in their life andrea davis “ capricorns are ambitious and hardworking. you should fall for a capricorn woman debres grace rosal “ capricorn women are loyal, determined and dependable. 7 non-negotiables a capricorn needs from you in a relationship molly burford “ true maturity: capricorn’s ruling planet is saturn, which is the planet of discipline and maturity, so if you’re not acting like a grown ass adult, you can expect a capricorn to lose interest in you very, very quickly. don’t fall in love with a capricorn kirsten corley “ they’ve gotten hurt a lot but despite that, they still believe in love. they know it’s one of the best things that can happen to someone. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.