home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog t25 alpha cardio workout & puma faas 300 v3 march 7, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment yesterday i spent the day working from home. at lunch, i threw on some workout clothes and some new kicks and tried beachbody's t25 alpha cardio workout for the first time. t25 is the newest workout that beachbody has released. shaun t is back at it with a shorter but just as intense workout as his other dvds. it was a lot like insanity but shorter. the workout is … [read more...] my new favorite running shoes july 19, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i'm so so so excited i've found some shoes that i absolutely love! sorry for so many pictures, but these are my new babies! i recently partnered up with finish line and got to try out some new nike running shoes. my package came in the mail this week. i'm not sure what i like more now...the blue tiffany's box or the orange nike box!! seriously i get so excited … [read more...] my first spin class july 12, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments it may be hard to believe but yesterday i took my first ever spinning class! i have always wanted to take a spin class but it just hadn't happened yet. i love trying new things and switching up my cardio routines. i had to rush to lifetime fitness to get to the class and ended up walking in just as the class was starting ( i absolutely hate being late..it's one of my … [read more...] new clutch sneakers june 25, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment there's nothing better than coming home from work to a big box waiting for you outside your house, right?! especially when you see it's from puma and they want you to try out their latest kicks! they are the bioweb elite high-rise shoes. i got them in the curacao/jasmine color. super cute! gosh i'm such a workout shoe fanatic. i love new "sneakers" as i call … [read more...] clutch cut – day 2 – cardio june 22, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment well today was day 2 of ashley conrad's 21 day clutch cut from bodybuilding.com. it was an only cardio day today...no weight training. here's a look at how the cardio was designed for today. hiit training: repeat the circuit 10x walk (1 minute) jog (30 seconds) sprint (1 minute) i personally think the best way to do sprints is outdoors because your body can change … [read more...] sweat fest workout january 11, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment here is a great workout you can do anywhere so you have no excuses to pass this one up! it's time to get your sweat on with the sweat fest workout!! 1-2-3...go! if you try this workout, leave a comment below and let me know what you think! … [read more...] just dance december 19, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment okay..i have to admit something. i'm a total nerd when it comes to new technology that can help or track my workouts. i was recently searching online while christmas shopping and found that the new just dance 4 game was out for wii!!! i have the original just dance and the michael jackson dance game...both are frickin' hilarious to play by myself or with friends. speaking of … [read more...] playground workout november 6, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment last week i was in florida for my grandpa's 80th surprise birthday party. i woke up early on the morning of the party and my boyfriend and i wanted to get a workout in. we didn't have access to a gym, but that's okay because we made up our own killer workout using the path around the lake and a simple playground! we started by running a lap around the lake which was about … [read more...] pyramind walk workout november 5, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment start at the bottom left side of the pyramid with a warmup. your treadmill speed will be at 3.8mph the entire workout. the only thing that will change is your incline on the treadmill. work your way up the left side of the pyramid by changing your incline each minute. when you reach the top of the pyramid, work your way back down the right side of the pyramid and decrease … [read more...] pyramind walk workout november 5, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment here is a workout i created today. i did it on my lunch break and my calves were on fire!!! start at the bottom left side of the pyramid with a warmup. your treadmill speed will be at 3.8mph the entire workout. the only thing that will change is your incline on the treadmill. work your way up the left side of the pyramid by changing your incline each minute. when … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in