home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more your dream job starts now join the michael hyatt & company team current job openings what we do w e are a leadership development company. our mission is to glorify god by helping overwhelmed, successful leaders get the focus they need to win at work and succeed at life. the value we offer includes: live events & 1-day intensives physical productivity tools four bestselling books a world-class podcast value-driven newsletters informative ebooks and videos our team of agile full-time employees and contractors are always innovating to better serve our customers and lead our industry to new levels of excellence. in a highly collaborative environment, we seek to encourage and strengthen each other while continually delivering greater value to our audience. the michael hyatt & company team prioritizes both intentional margin for ourselves and outstanding experiences for our customers, meaning we practice what we preach as we strive to not only win at work, but enable our employees to succeed in their lives as a whole. our team members love what they do—and have a blast doing it. the work is deeply rewarding and plays to each person’s unique strengths and talents. our story m ichael hyatt, a new york times bestselling author and entrepreneur, spent thirty-four years in the book publishing industry prior to establishing michael hyatt & company. over the course of his career, he worked in a variety of areas, including sales, editorial, marketing, and executive leadership. he spent the last six years of his tenure as the chairman and ceo of thomas nelson publishers. at that time, it was the largest faith-based publisher in the world and the seventh largest trade publisher in the u.s. michael hyatt & company is one of inc. 5000's fastest growing private companies in america in 2017, 2018, and 2019 michael stepped down as the ceo of thomas nelson on april 11, 2011, to pursue his dream of becoming a writer and speaker. (he continued as the chairman for the next year until harpercollins bought the company in june 2012.) he took a month long sabbatical, then started the company that would eventually become michael hyatt & company, llc. since then, michael hyatt & company has produced incredible products and satisfied thousands of customers. not only that, but we continue to grow in size and revenue year after year. we have achieved these extraordinary results without compromising our values, culture, or — most importantly— our margin. our core values hover over each to learn more 1 unyielding integrity we tell the truth, do what's right, and honor our commitments even when expensive, inconvenient, or embarrassing. 2 prioritizing people we know our greatest asset is our team, and we invest in them with industry-leading pay and generous benefits that embody and facilitate our company values. 3 infectious enthusiasm we believe we work in the best company on earth, and we spontaneously spread that enthusiasm to each other, our customers, and our audience. 4 high leverage we invest both our corporate and individual resources in opportunities with an exponential return, measured by profit, impact, or both. 5 total ownership we believe individual and collective leadership drives results. when we fail, we own it, resolve it, and learn the lesson to avoid it in the future. 6 intentional margin we encourage our team to rest and rejuvenate, caring for their health and prioritizing their most important relationships, so they can do their best work. 7 relentless wow we engineer transformational products, services, and experiences with envy-inspiring levels of excellence and attention to detail. 8 continuous growth we never stop learning and never rest on our laurels. we constantly improve our products, services, operations, and ourselves. why join our team? here are five reasons to consider work you love by working with us, you can dig deep into your desired specialty and grow personally and professionally. you’ll be inspired to pursue out-of-the-box thinking and work with others to achieve big, wildly important goals. you’ll also be able to sharpen your skills constructively through feedback and celebrate individual and collective wins. this is where what you’re passionate about and what you do best combine into the dream job you’ve been looking for. fantastic benefits you’ll have quality time for relationships and leisure due to generous vacation and holiday time, and working on the weekends is considered a crime (or, politely discouraged). all that without compromising pay or benefits — you’ll have full health benefits and will be compensated competitively for your unique skill set. since we prioritize the needs of our employees first, you will be inspired to recharge intentionally, knowing that your interests are protected and your family life and health are paramount. click here to learn more about our benefits for our full time, salaried employees smart, fun teammates in this company, your team members are cool people that you like, respect, and would want to hang out with in real life. you won’t be micro-managed — rather, you’ll be guided by clear directives and competent, engaging managers who seek your best interests as well as those of the team. you’ll be able to communicate regularly with your teammates to collaborate on projects while enjoying plenty of time to focus on your responsibilities. a perfect hybrid: in person & remote work at michael hyatt & company, we’ve created an intentional culture that promotes productivity, collaboration, and fun at work! we do this through our unique hybrid model of remote and in-person work. in our experience, people are the happiest and most productive when they have meaningful time to do deep, uninterrupted work at home (or wherever they can focus best) and when they have the sense of connection that comes from in-person collaboration. our team members typically work in the office 2-4 times a week, depending on the nature of their role, their leader’s needs, and their meeting schedule. other days, they have the freedom to work remotely. with this vision in mind, we provide a beautiful and inspiring, private collaborative workspace for our team, expertly designed to feel more like a chic boutique hotel than an office, but complete with the tech-forward amenities you’d expect to find from a forward-thinking company like ours. check out our beautiful, collaborative space for yourself here. a strategic focus if you are positive, confident, and willing to serve others, you’re our kind of people. we handle the hiring process with care. we only recruit individuals who are deeply talented, extremely competent, and possess impeccable character. our team is focused, disciplined, and strategic in creating only those products that serve our mission. as a member of our team, you will be highly valued, respected, and able to hone in on important, thought-out objectives. current openings see our list of available positions below share tweet share email get notified to be notified when new or upcoming positions become available, join our prospective employees mailing list. keep me posted mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed