evernote uses cookies to enable the evernote service and to improve your experience with us. to learn more, check out our cookie policy. by clicking ok or continuing to use our site, you agree that we can place these cookies. ok click "ok" to return to yinxiang.com ok evernote plans basic take great notes premium unclutter your life business bring your team together compare plans find the evernote solution that fits your needs features sync and organize keep your notes handy web clipper a save button for the web templates make better notes, faster pdf & doc search find information anywhere spaces bring your team together search handwriting find text in any note document scanning go paperless with evernote integrations connect your favorite apps help & learning about us about us learn about the company careers opportunities at evernote why evernote save, sync and share it all contact us need help? get in touch download or log in evernote download or log in plans basic premium business compare plans features sync and organize web clipper templates pdf & doc search spaces search handwriting document scanning integrations help & learning about us about us why evernote careers contact us join the herd we are a talented, diverse, and spirited team helping millions of people around the world find focus, organize their thoughts, and get more done. if you want to make a meaningful impact and have some fun along the way, we’d love to meet you. see job openings our core values we are the notable herd we recognize the individual quirks that make us an authentic team. we bring our whole selves to work, and we leave plenty of space for creativity, light-heartedness, and onesies while staying focused on our shared mission. we debate, decide + commit we're active listeners who rely on data and mutual respect. while we challenge and engage each other in lively debates, we also hold ourselves accountable and commit to transforming decisions into actions. we innovate through iteration we move fast and stay scrappy, but act with purpose. we bring intent and insight to every project. we know we won't always get it right, but we're not afraid to experiment and learn from experience. we embody productivity organized teams and individuals get more done. productivity is a driving force behind our products, and we try to live this out every day. we're organized, prepared, and thoughtful in everything we do. we help our customers find their focus it all starts with our customers—they are at the center of all we do. every decision we make centers on earning their trust and enabling them to focus on what matters most, so they can achieve their goals. at evernote, we’re creating an environment where all our employees feel valued and empowered, and where diversity is not only embraced, it’s proudly celebrated. we believe that when people can be their authentic selves, great things happen. diverse viewpoints allow us to think bigger, and create the kind of products that engage, inspire, and address the needs of customers all over the world. read more perks & benefits of course we offer catered lunch, generous pto, and great insurance... but here's what makes us different: evernote academy we love learning! evernote academy provides an opportunity for us to stretch our creativity and learn new skills like flower arranging, public speaking, or lock picking. yearly vacation stipend recharge your batteries! employees at evernote are encouraged to take time off and relax with a $1,000 annual vacation stipend to travel somewhere new. barista training at evernote hq in redwood city, we love our coffee! learn to make espresso drinks and pick up a shift to meet your fellow co-workers (and create amazing latte art). baby bonding program family is important to us, and new parents are encouraged to take time off when welcoming a member to the family. we offer 6 weeks of additional paid leave. find your dream job here {number} open positions location all locations austin, tx bothell, wa redwood city, ca remote san diego, ca santiago, chile tokyo, japan viña del mar, chile zurich no office department all departments customer support design engineering operations people sorry, we found no jobs matching that filter criteria. product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations notes sync pdf & doc search search handwriting document scanning notebooks & tags community our community certified consultants beta program developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose a language: english (us) bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu dansk deutsch english (us) español español (américa latina) français italiano nederlands polski português (brasil) português (portugal) suomi svenska tiếng việt türkçe русский العربية ภาษาไทย 한국어 中文（简体） 中文（繁體） 日本語 facebook twitter medium instagram youtube linkedin © 2020 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy