skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources career the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? march 27, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment in the age of social distancing and stay at home orders, work from home is becoming the normal (at least for white collar workers). but will this have a long-term impact on the future of work? i'd … continue reading about the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? interesting stats on women and finances january 28, 2014 by miranda marquit 2 comments after writing my last post, i found the following on women and finances, and thought i'd put them up. it comes statisticbrain: what i found most interesting is that only 16 percent of households are … continue reading about interesting stats on women and finances the gender pay gap is closing, but will women’s financial situations improve? january 24, 2014 by miranda marquit 2 comments one of the results of the march of time is that the gender pay gap is closing. millennial women are catching up in terms of receiving equal pay for equal work. however, the issue with the gender … continue reading about the gender pay gap is closing, but will women’s financial situations improve? income inequality: hard work doesn’t mean wealth january 8, 2014 by miranda marquit 2 comments one of the basic tenets of our society is this: if you work hard, you'll be able to earn a living. people often equate working hard with wealth. if you aren't rich, you just haven't worked hard … continue reading about income inequality: hard work doesn’t mean wealth when women earn more: can this destroy your marriage? may 21, 2013 by miranda marquit 2 comments when women earn more: can this destroy your marriage?something i wrote over at plantingmoneyseeds today. as a woman, could your earning power put your marriage at risk?my marriage seems fine. but … continue reading about when women earn more: can this destroy your marriage? #fincon11, hard choices and what’s next october 9, 2011 by miranda marquit 5 comments i've had a week to absorb what i learned at the financial blogger conference, and reflect on what i want to do next. (if you are interested in the slides, you can find them on the fincon web … continue reading about #fincon11, hard choices and what’s next go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 go to page 4 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com