skip to content college info geek career skills menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills remote view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new remote work, learn, and succeed from the comforts of your own home. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search career skills so you know what your dream job is … now how do you get it? this collection of articles and resources will give you a competitive edge for the difficult task of finding and landing a job. here you’ll learn all the important things that your school probably glossed over — how to write a resume and cover letter, how to grow your network, how to convince professionals to meet you for coffee, and how to absolutely nail a job interview. master the job hunt applying for a job? this is exactly how to write a winning resume 4 tips to ace phone interviews (plus 8 practice interview questions) how to write a thank you note for any occasion (with 3 examples you can use) 7 resume mistakes you need to avoid how to write a cover letter how to get any job you want: the 2 decisive moments to master how to ace your next job interview: 35 proven tips 97 actions you should take to become the person companies want to hire searching for your dream job? here’s how to land it in 6 steps build your personal brand the ultimate guide to building a personal website 50 of the best personal website and portfolio examples in 2020 how to build a personal brand that cuts through the clutter the essential components of a great personal website (examples included) how to create an impressive online portfolio (with examples) the ultimate guide to linkedin for students network and expand your circle how to network like the pros: 8 creative strategies no one else is using how to use informational interviews to land your dream job silver-medal mentors: mastering the art of 21st-century apprenticeships how to ask for letters of recommendation and references get experience and make some money 23 of the best online jobs for students – and how to get them these 26 part-time jobs will help you stop being broke how to make an extra $1,000 a month (25 ways that actually work) 5 alternatives to traditional employment the ultimate guide to freelancing in college our best podcast episodes on building a career why you aren’t successful yet (ep. 219) our winding career paths (ep. 268) how to achieve work-life balance (ep. 234) how to write a great resume and cover letter (ep. 209) career fairs and networking events (ep. 233) how to find a mentor (ep. 203) more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.