search subscribe search topics all topics a–z acid reflux adhd allergies alzheimer’s & dementia bipolar disorder cancer chronic pain cold & flu copd chron’s disease depression fibromyalgia health insurance exchanges heart disease high cholesterol hiv hypertension ibs ipf menopause multiple sclerosis (ms) nutrition osteoarthritis pregnancy psoriasis rheumatoid arthritis skin disorders and care stds type 2 diabetes tools symptom checker bodymaps find an online doctor health news newsletters diabetes mine subscribe to our newsletter symptom checker news more than 200 million health seekers turn to us every month*, so we’re looking for more big thinkers. thank you for your interest in advancing your career at healthline media. through our three properties – healthline, medical news today, and greatist, every member of our team works to build a stronger, healthier world. in 2019, healthline joined the red ventures portfolio of fast-growing digital brands. within the rv platform, the healthline team gains access to global resources and unparalleled career growth – as well as our unique, collaborative, and purpose-driven culture. take a look at the benefits and perks unique to our healthline team below. *source: google analytics, july 2019. view all open positions benefits and perks $1200 health reimbursement buy a bike. or join a gym. or donate to a health-related charity. once your one-year work anniversary rolls around, we'll reimburse you up to $1,200. build your career we are a high-growth company and believe our people should grow, too. we offer multiple learning opportunities and frequently promote from within. employee bonus program anyone not on the management bonus program will be eligible for an annual profit sharing bonus! targeted at $1,000/year based on company performance, this prorated (quarterly) bonus is paid out each march in q1. parental leave we're proud to support our new parents! for each week you take off as a new parent, we'll supplement any state-funded leave to 100% of your salary for up to 12 weeks. living in balance we mean it when we say we value keeping the teetertotter of work and life level. you’ll work hard, tackle rewarding projects, and maintain a firm grip on your own life. health benefits galore take advantage of our exceptional medical, dental, and vision coverage. we also offer life insurance, 401(k) investments and more. rack up the pto start with 17 paid days off (plus 10 paid holidays) in your first year. plus, enjoy our office shut down period during the december holidays! free eats and drinks “health” is in our name, and we back it up with a kitchen stocked with healthy foods and beverages. you can even enjoy a catered lunch on the company dime up to twice a week. bring your pet and by “pet,” we do mean “well-behaved dog.” (it’s best to leave your cats and reptiles at home.) hounds make us happy, so we've made our office a pooch-friendly place. work remotely reduce your commute time by working from home (or a café, or laundromat, or auto mechanic’s shop — wherever you concentrate best) one day each week. good times yoga in the office, weekly happy hour, charity walks, summer parties... we know how to let our hair down and love to blend life with work! enjoy coming to work! our sf hq is around the corner from the giants' ballpark, near the bay and all sorts of transit. we've got secure bike parking, sofas, and yes... a ping-pong table. culture and values integrity transparency and honesty earn us the trust of each other and our users. collaboration we work together to achieve our mission with humility and genuine respect for each member of our team. ingenuity we are smart, innovative, and inspiring changemakers. empathy we feel with our users and are committed to being their true ally in their lifelong pursuit of health and well-being. joyful, healthful living we’re all in for having fun, living well, and promoting good health. we’re proving that you can work hard and be happy. excellence we bring data-driven insights and critical thinking to each challenge and are accountable for the quality and outcome of everything we produce. facebook twitter pinterest instagram flipboard linkedin about us health topics health news contact us advertising policy advertise with us newsletters careers privacy policy terms of use find an online doctor get our wellness newsletter fitness and nutrition tips, health news, and more. subscribe © 2005–2020 healthline media. all rights reserved. our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. healthline media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. see additional information | privacy policy | terms and conditions