/ submit / search / store / menu blog : show me the posts forums : but read the community guidelines shop : a directory of wonderful products about us : editors, contributors and staff contact us : get satisfaction advertise here : thank you for not blocking ours privacy policy : what we do with data you generate terms of service : what you agree to follow us twitter / facebook / rss carla sinclair / 9:17 am fri creepy video of drones in china scolding those who aren't wearing masks drones are now hovering over people in the streets of china, scolding those who aren't wearing face masks to protect them from the coronavirus, and it's quite eerie. watch the video in the tweet below from the communist party's global times of the different folks the drone calls out, including an older woman: “yes, auntie, this is the drone speaking to you. you shouldn't walk about without wearing a mask. yes you'd better go back home and don't forget to wash your hands.” chinese officials in rural areas are creatively using #drones to make sure local residents don‘t gather together without wearing masks during the nationwide battle against the #coronavirus. https://t.co/e6khcwvurx pic.twitter.com/td7u1zz4kz — global times (@globaltimesnews) january 31, 2020 source: the washington post read the rest share / tweet / 19 comments coronavirus / drones / dystopia carla sinclair / 8:40 am fri watch: a pet goat enjoys morning pastries before riding away on a motorcycle this goat knows the routine as it excitedly jumps on the man for its morning pastries. it then jumps on the back of the man's motorcycle and embraces him as it reaches for more of the sweet stuff. proof that goodness still exists in the world. read the rest share / tweet / 7 comments delightful creatures carla sinclair / 11:23 am thu, jan 30, 2020 watch and rewatch this optical illusion to figure out how it's done "twisting reality, one video at a time," vfx artist kevin lustgarten regularly churns out amazing optical illusions like this one for our visual pleasure. read the rest share / tweet / 25 comments optical illusions / visual effects carla sinclair / 10:43 am thu, jan 30, 2020 first person-to-person transmission of coronavirus in the us a second person in chicago has come down with the coronavirus, bringing the total of coronavirus patients in the us up to six (two in chicago, two in california, one in seattle, and one in arizona). but this is the first case that was transmitted person-to-person within the us (the other five patients became infected in china). according to nbc: the new patient lives with a chicago woman in her 60s who was diagnosed after returning last month from wuhan, china, the epicenter of the outbreak that's now sickened upward of 8,000 people. with more than 8,000 confirmed cases of the conronavirus (mostly in china), and at least 170 deaths, the world health organization is meeting again today to determine whether it should be declared as a public health emergency of international concern. image: by national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid), national institutes of health (nih) - national institutes of health (nih), public domain, link read the rest share / tweet / 22 comments coronavirus carla sinclair / 8:59 am thu, jan 30, 2020 trump's border wall ain't so beautiful after it falls with the wind "i'm a builder. i know how to build," said trump when he promised a "beautiful" border wall. welp, this is part of what he's built so far: an eyesore between calexico, ca and mexicali, mexico that blew over into mexico as soon as wind gusts hit. trees are there to catch it, preventing it from slamming into the ground. according to the guardian: the steel panels, more than 30ft (nine metres) high, began to lean at a sharp angle on the border between the californian town of calexico and mexicali in mexico amid gusts on wednesday. the section of wall was under construction at the time, with concrete anchors being put in place. but the strong winds blew the panels over onto the mexican side of the border before the concrete had cured, according to reports and photographs. the panels were being retrieved from the mexican side and re-erected, pitones said. “cbp [customs and border protection] will work with the construction contractor to mitigate the impact of high winds as construction continues,” pitones said. and the internet is having fun with it: point and laugh everyone, just point and laugh https://t.co/4swqnmczcr — juan escalante (@juansaaa) january 30, 2020 since this part of the “new” wall fell into mexico-does it now belong to mexico? perhaps they’ll make it a big gate! pic.twitter.com/flqf29lgez — cptnwillie (@cptnwillie) january 30, 2020 very symbolic of trump’s impeachment defense. #impeachment #trumpwall pic.twitter.com/xlowk4mmol — james durban (@jimmydurban) january 30, 2020 read the rest share / tweet / 28 comments pretend walls carla sinclair / 12:01 pm wed, jan 29, 2020 watch: michael bloomberg greets a dog by shaking his, uh, mouth michael bloomberg sure has a funny way of greeting a dog. obviously he hasn't quite mastered this trick. watch him shake this doggo's mouth before giving him a nice scratch on the head in this tweet by @chrisjollyhale: i regret to inform you that mike bloomberg attempted to shake a dog’s mouth. pic.twitter.com/hksagj4xaf — christopher j. hale (@chrisjollyhale) january 28, 2020 read the rest share / tweet / 25 comments michael bloomberg / teaching a human to shake carla sinclair / 10:39 am wed, jan 29, 2020 q: what caused stepford senators in gop? a: campaign contributions from trump's lawyers i've often wondered what kind of blackmail has got mitch mcconnell, lindsey graham, et al running so scared that they now don't even try to hide their mindless, sycophantic kneeling before king trump. but, according to salon, the answer is much simpler than blackmail – it's about what it's almost always about: money, or in this case, campaign contributions. apparently, trump's lawyers donated thousands to the gop senate puppets. for instance, in 2017, kenneth starr donated $2,700 to lindsey graham and $2,800 to mitch mcconnell in 2019. from salon: starr, who lamented that "we are living in … the age of impeachment" during the trial on monday and accused democrats of waging a "domestic war," gave $2,800 to mcconnell in july 2019, according to cfpr. ray, who wanted to indict clinton over the monica lewinsky affair but now claims trump has been vindicated by the transcript of his july 25 phone call with ukrainian president volodymyr zelensky, contributed the maximum $5,600 to mcconnell in september 2019, according to the report. the contributions came months before mcconnell bragged to fox news host sean hannity that he would be in "total coordination with the white house counsel's office and the people who are representing the president in the well of the senate." "everything i do during this, i'm coordinating with the white house counsel," he said. "there will be no difference between the president's position and our position as to how to handle this." read more details at salon. image: liz west / flickr read the rest share / tweet / 34 comments all the justice money can buy carla sinclair / 9:43 am wed, jan 29, 2020 man delivering newspapers notices a restaurant on fire and puts it out himself while newspaper delivery driver, vince cocoroch, is on his route at 2am in victoria, bc, canada, he notices the side of a restaurant on fire. he calls the fire department, but rather than wait for the firetrucks to arrive, he jumps out of his car and puts out the fire himself (3:06), getting a little burned in the process. according to times colonist, the paper he has been delivering since 1997: cocoroch phoned 911 to report the fire because the flames were starting to spread from the plastic sign to the structure itself. “i didn’t know if i would be able to put it out or not. i know they have to call their guys and it takes a little while before they get there,” said cocoroch. after making the emergency call, he grabbed a rag and started beating out the flames. “i got a little burned from it,” he said. “when i was pounding on the fire, the plastic sign was splattering.” video of the fire was captured by the dash cam on cocoroch’s delivery truck. appropriately, it's titled right place - right time. read the rest share / tweet / 13 comments amateur firefighters / good news / good samaritans / oddities / weird carla sinclair / 12:24 pm tue, jan 28, 2020 70 passengers refuse to board a plane with wuhan residents, causing a 5-hour standoff around 70 passengers booked on a china southern airlines flight from nagoya, japan to shanghai refused to get on the plane when they found out 16 passengers from wuhan, china were getting on the same plane. worried that the wuhan passengers could be infected with the new coronavirus – which has now killed 106 people and infected more than 4,500 people (but those numbers will will certainly climb within the next 24 hours, as they've been doing since the epidemic started last month) – the fearful passengers became angry and hostile. it took five hours for the airline to convince them to board the plane. according to ibt: reportedly, 70 passengers who live in shanghai tried to prevent the 16 passengers from wuhan to board the flight. after a five hour delay, the airline was able to finally convince the protesting passengers. the travellers from wuhan were finally able to board the flight and fly to shanghai. the chinese government put the city of wuhan under quarantine before the chinese new year. however, many residents of wuhan remain locked out of the city. the passengers who were being disallowed from boarding the flight were heading to china even though they would not be able to enter wuhan in the coming days. since the coronavirus spreads even before an infected patient starts showing symptoms, there is mass panic in the country. the passengers from wuhan might have left the city before lockdown and they might be infected by the virus. based on this fear, the shanghai residents turned on their fellow passengers. read the rest share / tweet / 26 comments coronavirus / epidemics / mass panic carla sinclair / 11:28 am tue, jan 28, 2020 a gentleman asks guys at his gym to borrow their guns for a robbery, but his plan backfires a 19-year-old gentleman in monroe, louisiana asked a couple of guys at his gym if he could borrow some guns he noticed in their truck so that he could rob someone. he needed cash to skip town, and thought stealing it at gunpoint was his best shot (pun intended). but it was a botched scheme after the two men “flagged down an officer,” according to ap, and warned them about the fellow's plans. he was then arrested for possession of meth. from ap: [landon wayne] duke had approached the men, whom he reportedly knew, in a planet fitness parking lot and noticed they had guns in their truck, according to a police arrest report obtained by the monroe news star. the men told investigators duke said he wanted to borrow the guns to rob someone of enough money to leave town. the men said no and entered the gym, according to the report. duke allegedly followed and worked out with the men while continuing to talk about robbing someone, investigators wrote. police later spotted duke at nearby a gas station and found what they believed to be methamphetamine wrapped in a $100 bill in is pocket, the newspaper said. duke was booked into ouachita correctional center on sunday on one count of possession of a schedule ii controlled dangerous substance. he remained in custody monday, the news star said. image: sfbaywalk / flickr read the rest share / tweet / 59 comments averted crimes carla sinclair / 9:08 am tue, jan 28, 2020 listen to the office theme song played on kalimbas this cover of the office theme song is played on three kalimbas by justvaish. and here's his rendition of interstellar: read the rest share / tweet / 2 comments kalimbas carla sinclair / 10:11 am mon, jan 27, 2020 watch this toilet paper mutate into something unrecognizable this is what would happen if, when trying to unclog a bathroom pipe, you clumsily tripped over a slipper and spilled the drain cleaner (98% sulfuric acid) onto a roll of toilet paper. i recently posted about another fascinating video that shows sulfuric acid being poured over sugar, which also explains the science behind it, but this toilet paper transformation was too awesome to ignore. read the rest share / tweet / 17 comments awesome transformations / drain cleaner / sulfuric acid carla sinclair / 9:38 am wed, jan 22, 2020 after health expert in china said new coronavirus was "under control," he himself became infected twelve days ago, a beijing pulmonary expert traveled to wuhan, the epicenter of china's coronavirus, and declared on china central television that the outbreak was "under control" and a "mild condition." eleven days later, according to the new york times, he himself became infected with the virus. from the japan times: wang guangfa, who heads the department of pulmonary medicine at beijing’s peking university first hospital, was part of a team of experts that earlier this month visited wuhan, where the virus emerged... wang, who conducted research on severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) in 2003, said he was receiving treatment and would receive an injection soon. he did not give details on how he may have been infected. "i was diagnosed and my condition is fine,” wang said on cable tv yesterday. "i don’t want everyone to put too much attention on my condition.” this sars-like coronavirus has mostly infected people in wuhan, but has also spread to other regions of the country, as well as japan, thailand, korea, taiwan, the united states, hong kong, and macau. when blogged about on boing boing just yesterday, the virus had infected almost 300 people and caused six deaths. and then last night when blogged again, the number changed to 440 people with nine deaths. as of right now, so far, the numbers have changed again to 540 and 17. image: by hwangxiheng - own work, cc by-sa 3.0, link read the rest share / tweet / 17 comments coronavirus / outbreaks carla sinclair / 11:37 am tue, jan 21, 2020 coronavirus from china has made its way to the us the new coronavirus that is spreading in china, which has infected around 300 people and has killed at least six, has just shown up in the us (as well as japan, thailand, taiwan and south korea). a man who had traveled from wuhan, china, where the virus first appeared, came down with pneumonia last week and has just been tested positive for the virus, which is in the sars family (sars was the virus in 2003 that killed around 800 people). from the new york times: the man is a resident of snohomish county, wash., who experienced symptoms after returning from a trip to the region around wuhan, china, where the outbreak began. he was hospitalized with pneumonia last week, and infection with the coronavirus was confirmed on monday afternoon. the outbreak, which began in a seafood and poultry market in wuhan, a city of 11 million, is spreading: patients have been identified in beijing, shanghai and shenzhen, as well as taiwan, japan, thailand and south korea. major airports in the us started screening for the virus on friday, and the world health organization will decide tomorrow "whether to declare the outbreak an international public health emergency," according to nyt. advertise image: niaid / flickr read the rest share / tweet / 36 comments coronavirus / epidemics carla sinclair / 10:37 am tue, jan 21, 2020 drivers headed to atlantic city get stranded when a glitchy waze ad sends them to the wilderness if you're on a road trip wazing it to atlantic city’s borgata hotel casino & spa, you might want to double check your directions. when people click on an orange logo for the resort in an ad on the waze app, a glitch is sending people onto unpaved roads in new jersey’s pine barrens wilderness, 45 miles away from the casino. and many drivers have needed help after becoming stranded. according to the washington post: jackson township police posted on facebook that officers in recent weeks have had to help motorists who followed the directions into the colliers mills wildlife management area, where they became stuck on unpaved roads. “the wildlife area is comprised of more than 12,000 acres, mainly located in jackson and plumsted townships, which is about 45 miles (72 kilometers) away from the actual borgata casino in atlantic city,” police said... the address on the ad is correct, police said, but the location pinned with the ad is actually in the colliers mills wildlife area, police said. image: matt swern / flickr read the rest share / tweet / 28 comments bait and switch / road trips carla sinclair / 8:33 am tue, jan 21, 2020 kfc apologizes for tv ad that shows young boys staring in awe at a woman adjusting her breasts kfc started running this tv and online ad in australia a few weeks ago, but they're now apologizing. the ad shows a young woman adjusting her shorts and breasts while checking out her reflection in a car window, until the window rolls down and reveals two young shocked boys staring at her with their mouths open, along with a disapproving mom. after a few moments of silence, the young woman says, "did someone say kfc?" then we cut to her enjoying kfc's zinger popcorn box with a bunch of friends. the kfc ad was criticized by the collective shout, a group based in australia. spokeswoman melinda liszewski said: “ads like this reinforce the false idea that we can’t expect better from boys. it is another manifestation of the "boys will be boys" trope, hampering our ability to challenge sexist ideas which contribute to harmful behavior towards women and girls...the research is solid: attitudes shape behavior. a growing number of reports show how reinforcing of gender stereotypes – including in advertising – contributes to a lesser view of women, resulting in their mistreatment.” to which kfc responded: “we apologize if anyone was offended by our latest commercial. our intention was not to stereotype women and young boys in a negative light.” source: the guardian read the rest share / tweet / 100 comments boys will be boys / kfc carla sinclair / 11:57 am wed, jan 15, 2020 homeless man seriously injured after a cleanup truck scoops him up, along with his tent a homeless man has undergone surgery and is in serious condition after a city cleanup truck in dublin grabbed and lifted the man's tent with a mechanical claw in the middle of the day – while he was sleeping inside of it. apparently, the city wanted to "tidy up" the canal, and decided to clear the homeless tents alongside it. they supposedly checked inside the tents before snagging them, but even if that's true, they obviously missed this one. according to cnn: the unnamed man was injured when workers from waterways ireland, the body responsible for maintaining ireland's rivers and canals, cleared a walkway along a canal in the irish capital. "a man (age unknown) was sleeping in his tent when it was being removed in an attempt to tidy the canal walk way," local police said in a statement. "the man received injuries during this incident and was removed to st. vincent's hospital where he remains in serious condition but stable." according to dublin city council, the incident happened on tuesday afternoon, when workers "were removing tents that were placed in a precarious and dangerous location." a spokesman for waterways ireland said the body is "cooperating fully" with police investigating the incident, adding that "our thoughts are very much with the individual who was involved." this isn't the first time something like this has happened. in december 2017 a homeless person was nearly killed after being picked up and tossed into a san diego trash truck, as told by the san diego union-tribune. read the rest share / tweet / 9 comments homelessness more posts read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support