products pricing about webinars start your free trial log in resources listen to breaking brand — our new podcast! 🎧 open search form listen to breaking brand — our new podcast! 🎧 may we suggest... buffer news case studies design news and trends online marketing opinion pinterest social media marketing the science of social media case studies case studies 5 marketing lessons from daily harvest’s journey to shipping one million smoothies launched in 2015, daily harvest has become one of the fastest growing direct-to-consumer food brands in the world. read more case studies inside look: how two teams share a social media inbox who should reply to that dm? how marketing and customer support co-exist when engaging with customers on social media read more advertising does vertical video make a difference? we spent $6,000 on tests to find out there has been much discussion recently on industry-leading publications about the effectiveness of video on social media. for example, did you know that video posts... read more case studies nike’s secret to success on instagram: building an engaged community this post is part of our instagram marketing strategy series. the series provides you with actionable insights and lessons on how businesses are using instagram.... read more case studies building an ecommerce business: from zero to $100,000 in revenue from instagram ads this post is part of our instagram marketing strategy series. the series provides you with actionable insights and lessons on how businesses are using instagram.... read more case studies how blenders eyewear creates profitable instagram ad campaigns this post is part of our instagram marketing strategy series. the series provides you with actionable insights and lessons on how businesses are using instagram.... read more case studies how bustle ignited engagement and created new revenue streams using instagram stories this post is part of our instagram marketing strategy series. the series provides you with actionable insights and lessons on how businesses are using instagram.... read more case studies the secret to instagram success: square’s community curation strategy this post is part of our instagram marketing strategy series. the series provides you with actionable insights and lessons on how businesses are using instagram.... read more case studies how turn studio transitioned a side project into a thriving ecommerce business with instagram this post is part of our instagram marketing strategy series. the series provides you with actionable insights and lessons on how businesses are using instagram.... read more case studies how to sell on instagram: a stories strategy that’s generated ‘hundreds of thousands’ in sales kettlebell kings generates 400-600 new leads per week from social media, with half of those leads coming directly from instagram. and ‘hundreds of thousands of... read more case studies behind-the-scenes: how mercy for animals gets millions of social media impressions every week julie cappiello, global content manager at mercy for animals, shares their social media strategy, including how they identify and iterate on their best content and... read more posts navigation 1 2 3 … 5 next about us our team feedback contact us tweet @ us press faq guides & tutorials case studies webinars what is social media marketing? the pro plan buffer for business buffer for nonprofits pricing pablo image creator iphone & ipad app android app browser extension apps & extras © 2020 buffer inc. we're hiring hi there, we use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience and to analyze site traffic. by continuing to use our website, you consent to the use of these cookies. learn more. got it