skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category service workers see all the smashing articles in our service workers category. how to create and deploy angular material application by shubham 31 min read no meows just yet january 9, 2020 — this article will help you get started with a new angular project from just a thought to deployment. 10 more articles vitaly friedman wrote front-end performance checklist 2020 [pdf, apple pages, ms word] 114 min read no meows just yet january 6, 2020 — let’s make 2020… fast! a front-end performance checklist (pdf/apple pages/ms word), with everything you need to know to create fast experiences on the web today. read more… vitaly friedman wrote front-end performance checklist 2019 [pdf, apple pages, ms word] 92 min read no meows just yet january 7, 2019 — let’s make 2019… fast! a front-end performance checklist (pdf/apple pages/ms word), with everything you need to know to create fast experiences today. read more… ahmed bouchefra wrote a complete guide to routing in angular 13 min read no meows just yet november 28, 2018 — throughout this tutorial, ahmed bouchefra introduces angular router and how you can use it to create client-side apps and single page apps with routing and navigation. read more… ankita masand wrote an extensive guide to progressive web applications 26 min read no meows just yet november 27, 2018 — in this article, we’ll look at the pain points of users who are browsing old non-pwa websites and the promise of pwas to make the web great. you’ll learn most of the important technologies that make for cool pwas, like service workers, web push notifications and indexeddb. read more… ahmed bouchefra wrote building a pwa using angular 6 15 min read no meows just yet september 20, 2018 — throughout this tutorial, we’ll be using angular 6 to build a progressive web application, step by step, implementing the core tenets of pwas using angular cli v6. read more… leonardo losoviz wrote how to make a dynamic website become static through a content cdn 26 min read no meows just yet february 2, 2018 — what if we could have a wordpress website in which its dynamic content could be exported as static files? leonardo losoviz explains how you can combine both worlds: switch to a static site generator without having to abandon wordpress. read more… leonardo losoviz wrote implementing a service worker for single-page app wordpress sites 38 min read no meows just yet october 11, 2017 — through service workers, all framework and application code to output the html view can be precached in the browser, thus speeding up both the first meaningful paint and the time to interact. in this article, i will share my experience with implementing service workers for … read more… ada rose edwards wrote the building blocks of progressive web apps 21 min read no meows just yet september 5, 2016 — the common wisdom for most companies that set out to build an app is to build a native android or ios app, as well as a supporting website. although there are some good reasons for that, not enough people know about the major advantages of web apps. web apps can replace all … read more… kevin farrugia wrote a beginner's guide to progressive web apps 18 min read no meows just yet august 11, 2016 — pwas take advantage of the latest technologies to combine the best of web and mobile apps. this articles look into recent advancements in the browser and the opportunities we, as developers, have to build a new generation of web apps. read more… 1 2 next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top