skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category workflow a well established workflow can saves a lot of time and nerves as well as increase your productivity. no matter if you need a better strategy to manage your side projects or a profound deployment workflow, we’ve got a lot of articles to have you covered. related design systems responsive web design productivity how should designers learn to code? git, html/css, engineering principles (part 2) by paul hanaoka 20 min read no meows just yet march 25, 2020 — in part 1, paul explained the basics of the terminal, shared a few productivity hacks to get you started, and how to choose a code editor. in this part, he’ll continue with the topics of version ... read more… 320 more articles paul hanaoka wrote how should designers learn to code? the terminal and text editors (part 1) 13 min read no meows just yet march 18, 2020 — for the purpose of this two-part series of articles, we’re going to assume the answer for “should designers code?” is “it depends.” in this first part of the series, we’ll take a look at getting comfortable with the command line and text editors. read more… dave cunningham wrote how to empower design teams by measuring value 9 min read no meows just yet january 24, 2020 — how do we know if we are truly impactful as a design team? are we seen as a vehicle to deliver a solution that moves a needle? it’s time to empower our design teams and give them one voice to show how and when design really adds value. read more… john foreman wrote the mythical mythical man-month 11 min read no meows just yet january 15, 2020 — how do you move faster when adding folks to a project supposedly slows it down? mailchimp’s cpo takes the reader through some considerations for preserving momentum while scaling up. read more… jason lengstorf wrote adding dynamic and async functionality to jamstack sites 20 min read no meows just yet december 18, 2019 — skipping servers and using the jamstack to build and deliver websites and apps can save time, money, and headache by allowing us to deliver only static assets on a cdn. but the trade-off of ditching traditional server-based deployments means that standard approaches to … read more… matt orley wrote live sketching a site visitor journey to create a sitemap with your client 13 min read no meows just yet december 16, 2019 — the sitemap meeting can be a minefield of multiple stakeholders, multi-dimensional categories, historical analytics, new products and mobile-first demands. using a live illustration of a customer site journey, you can create a meaningful sitemap with which site visitors will … read more… suzanne scacca wrote struggling to get a handle on traffic surges 15 min read no meows just yet december 10, 2019 — traffic surges happen, but rather than let your website become victim to them, this guide will show you how you can set it up to be the victor. read more… konstantinos leimonis wrote how to ease your team’s development workflow with git hooks 7 min read no meows just yet december 2, 2019 — development workflows can easily get out of hand and start causing confusion and friction within teams — especially as they get bigger in size. thanks to git and the hooks it provides, we have a great variety of automation that can make our lives easier. read more… eric olive wrote better design with deep thinking 10 min read no meows just yet november 13, 2019 — task switching is a design killer. find out why switching and interruptions are even more serious than you think and how biology makes it difficult to resist the temptation to just check your email every few minutes. learn how to slay the distraction dragon with five … read more… philip kiely wrote adapting agile for part-time teams 12 min read no meows just yet november 12, 2019 — agile has had a long time to infiltrate software development. while the methodology advocates for “co-located, dedicated teams,” in its ubiquity agile is frequently applied to teams partially or fully composed of part-time workers. while there are lessons to be … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top