skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category smashing podcast smashing podcast is an interview show from your friends here at smashing magazine. join drew mclellan for conversations with experts on design, development, and content, and catch up with the latest articles you might have missed. related smashing events smashing books smashing monthly roundup smashing podcast episode 12 with paul boag: what is conversion optimisation? by drew mclellan 37 min read no meows just yet march 24, 2020 — in this episode of the smashing podcast, we’re talking about the user experience around converting site visitors into customers. drew mclellan talks to conversion optimisation specialist paul boag to ... read more… 11 more articles drew mclellan wrote smashing podcast episode 11 with eduardo bouças: what is sourcebit? 20 min read no meows just yet march 10, 2020 — in this episode of the smashing podcast we’re talking about an interesting open-source tool called sourcebit. how can it help our content workflow with jamstack sites? drew mclellan speaks to developer eduardo bouças to find out. read more… drew mclellan wrote smashing podcast episode 10 with trine falbe and martin michael frederiksen: what is ethical design? 31 min read no meows just yet february 25, 2020 — in this episode of the smashing podcast, we’re talking about ethical design. what does it mean for a design to be ethical, and how do we make improvements in our own projects? drew mclellan speaks to trine falbe and martin michael frederiksen to find out. read more… drew mclellan wrote smashing podcast episode 9 with stéphanie walter: how can i work with ui frameworks? 39 min read no meows just yet february 11, 2020 — in this episode of the smashing podcast, we’re taking a look at ui frameworks. how can the custom needs of a highly usable application be met with a set of off-the-shelf tools? drew mclellan speaks to ux designer stéphanie walter to find out. read more… drew mclellan wrote smashing podcast episode 8 with stephanie stimac and aaron gustafson: what’s new in microsoft edge? 30 min read no meows just yet january 28, 2020 — we’re taking a look at the brand new version of microsoft edge and its chromium-based rendering engine. what does that change mean for web developers, and how does the death of microsoft’s own rendering engine impact the web? drew mclellan talks to microsoft’s aaron … read more… drew mclellan wrote smashing podcast episode 7 with amy hupe: what is a government design system? 32 min read no meows just yet january 14, 2020 — in this episode of the smashing podcast, we’re taking a look at the uk government’s design system. how are design systems used within government? is it any different to how we might work in the commercial sector? drew mclellan talks to design systems advocate amy hupe. read more… drew mclellan wrote smashing podcast episode 6 with luca mezzalira: what are micro-frontends? 28 min read no meows just yet december 31, 2019 — in this episode of the smashing podcast we’re talking about micro-frontends. what is a micro-frontend and how is that different from the sort of approach we might be taking at the moment? read more… drew mclellan wrote smashing podcast episode 5 with jason pamental: what are variable fonts? 33 min read no meows just yet december 17, 2019 — in this episode of the smashing podcast, we’re talking about variable fonts. what are they, how do they differ from regular fonts, and how can they help in the design and performance of our websites? read more… drew mclellan wrote smashing podcast episode 4 with heydon pickering: what are inclusive components? 33 min read no meows just yet december 3, 2019 — in this episode of the smashing podcast, we’re talking about inclusive components. what does it mean to be inclusive, or let alone a component? and what has that got to do with accessibility? drew mclellan talks to smashing author heydon pickering to find out. read more… drew mclellan wrote smashing podcast episode 3 with jina anne: what are design tokens? 23 min read no meows just yet november 19, 2019 — what are design tokens and how are they used? in this episode of the smashing podcast, drew mclellan talks to design systems expert jina anne. read more… 1 2 next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top