skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category accessibility websites aren’t just meant to look good — they are meant to be easy to use for everybody: people who rely on speech, are color-blind or live with dementia. there is no such thing as a normal user, or average user: keeping our content accessible to whatever comes into user’s way is critical for keeping content future-ready. related api techniques html forms accessible svgs: inclusiveness beyond patterns by carie fisher 14 min read no meows just yet march 12, 2020 — we are fortunate to have robust patterns to choose from when optimizing accessibility in svgs — but most people stop there, focusing on code compliance and not actual users and their needs. if ... read more… 43 more articles uri shaked wrote recreating the arduino pushbutton using svg and <lit-element> 17 min read no meows just yet january 20, 2020 — in this article, you’ll learn how to build custom html components that mimic physical objects, such as the arduino pushbutton. read more… tris tolliday wrote creating voice skills for google assistant and amazon alexa 15 min read no meows just yet december 23, 2019 — voice assistants are hopping out of emerging tech and into everyday life. as a front end developer, you already have the skills to build one, so let’s dive into the platforms. read more… vitaly friedman wrote meet “inclusive components”: accessible, bulletproof front-end patterns 10 min read no meows just yet december 3, 2019 — heydon pickering’s new book inclusive components is now shipping worlwide. the book explores accessible and robust solutions for the ui patterns we use every day. read more… vitaly friedman wrote meet “inclusive components”, a new printed book by heydon pickering 8 min read no meows just yet november 7, 2019 — heydon pickering’s new book inclusive components explores more accessible and robust solutions for the ui patterns we author, plug in, and use every day. read more… vitaly friedman wrote inclusive design and accessibility: live stream with heydon pickering 2 min read no meows just yet november 7, 2019 — today, heydon will talk about the relationship between accessibility and design systems, and introduce his brand new book: inclusive components. during the session, he will explore how to create an accessible accordion using progressive enhancement, and answer your questions … read more… barry rueger wrote creating online environments that work well for older users 11 min read no meows just yet november 4, 2019 — a significant part of the internet-using population is aged 50 or older — including the people who invented it. designers need to understand what older users need and why it’s not enough to just say, “i can read it, so what’s the problem?” read more… philip kiely wrote text-to-speech and back again with aws (part 2) 10 min read no meows just yet october 2, 2019 — in this article, we will use speech-to-text to draft transcripts of podcasts and interviews for publication. we’ll also evaluate the overall accuracy of these format-transformation technologies by running a few samples through round-trip transcriptions. read more… philip kiely wrote text-to-speech with aws (part 1) 11 min read no meows just yet august 1, 2019 — text-to-speech can help you create more versatile, accessible content. you could purchase recording equipment and spend hours recording and editing each narration, but if you want most of the benefit for only a couple of minutes and a few pennies per post, consider using aws … read more… aaron pearlman wrote ux optimizations for keyboard-only and assistive technology users 8 min read no meows just yet june 11, 2019 — accessibility forces you to see and think about your application beyond the typical sighted, mouse-based user experience. in this article, we’ll dig into some specific, practical examples. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top