skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category wordpress wordpress is said to run more than a quarter of all websites — and for good reason. it has a loyal user base and scores of dedicated developers who bring better features to the system year round. so here’s how to create a wordpress site, how to migrate an existing website into wordpress, and how to implement an ssl certificate for free. and many more tutorials below. related https nginx servers how to book more appointments and events with a wordpress booking plugin by suzanne scacca 13 min read no meows just yet february 11, 2020 — by using the amelia booking plugin for wordpress, you can create booking widgets that collect more appointments (and revenue) for your clients. this article explains how. 212 more articles sarah drasner & geoff graham wrote how to create a headless wordpress site on the jamstack 18 min read no meows just yet february 4, 2020 — in this post, we’ll set up a demo site and tutorial for headless wordpress, including a starter template! we’ll use the wordpress dashboard for rich content editing, while migrating the front-end architecture to the jamstack. read more… sarah drasner wrote how smashing magazine manages content: migration from wordpress to jamstack 11 min read no meows just yet january 28, 2020 — wordpress adoption is massive. so why would a wordpress site consider moving to jamstack? in this technical case study, we’ll cover what an actual wordpress migration looks like, using smashing magazine itself! we’ll talk through the gains and losses, the things we wish we … read more… manish dudharejia wrote a complete guide to wordpress multisite 16 min read no meows just yet january 23, 2020 — wordpress multisite allows you to run multiple websites on your server using the same wordpress installation. this article will help you understand every facet of this unique wordpress tool. read more… leonardo losoviz wrote abstracting wordpress code to reuse with other cmss: implementation (part 2) 39 min read no meows just yet november 28, 2019 — making our code cms-agnostic, as much as possible, enables us to easily port our application to another cms if the need arises. in this article we will learn how to abstract a wordpress application, making its code readily available for other frameworks or cmss. read more… leonardo losoviz wrote abstracting wordpress code to reuse with other cmss: concepts (part 1) 12 min read no meows just yet november 18, 2019 — making our code cms as agnostic as possible enables us to easily port our application to another cms if the need arises. in this article, we will learn how code abstraction works, why it is a good idea, and the key concepts to achieve it. read more… leonardo losoviz wrote exploring new ways to manage content in wordpress 10 min read no meows just yet november 7, 2019 — gutenberg is reinventing the experience of creating content in wordpress, granting it new powers to create, edit and manage our content. let’s see what these new powers are. read more… leonardo losoviz wrote “create once, publish everywhere” with wordpress 26 min read no meows just yet october 28, 2019 — the term cope (“create once, publish everywhere”) is a methodology for publishing our content to different outputs (website, amp site, email, apps, and so on) by having a single source of truth for all of them. let’s explore how to implement cope using wordpress. read more… leonardo losoviz wrote postmortem of gutenberg the launch, so we can embrace gutenberg the product 16 min read no meows just yet october 17, 2019 — a postmortem of what went wrong with the launch of gutenberg, as to allow ourselves to embrace gutenberg as the product. read more… suzanne scacca wrote should you add wordpress maintenance to your service offering? 15 min read no meows just yet october 15, 2019 — as a web designer, you’re probably all too familiar with feast or famine. or with the dreaded scope creep that robs you of the profits you were so looking forward to pocketing. but that’s what happens when your ability to make money rides on how many hours you can work. … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top