skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category user experience a meaningful experience that lasts. isn’t that what we all want to achieve? below you’ll find the best tips to take not only your ux design process but also the experiences you craft to the next level. related user experience ux design what does a foldable web actually mean? by frederick o'brien 11 min read no meows just yet february 26, 2020 — foldable devices have brought with them talk of a ‘foldable web,’ and the idea that long-standing web conventions may be on the verge of a serious shakeup. is it all hype, or is it time to get ... read more… 289 more articles maitrik kataria wrote how to design mobile apps for one-hand usage 19 min read no meows just yet february 20, 2020 — 90% of the smartphones sold today have >5-inch displays. bigger screen real estate presents newer challenges and opportunities for app makers and designers. let’s look at how designing apps for one-handed usage can solve those challenges. read more… suzanne scacca wrote how to design powerful narratives on mobile 16 min read no meows just yet january 27, 2020 — want to build a website or pwa that attracts a large audience and then converts as much of that audience into paying customers as possible? if that’s the case, what you need to do is use storytelling in your design. read more… shamsi brinn wrote beyond sprint 0: an alternative for integrating teams 16 min read no meows just yet december 24, 2019 — sprint 0, and its close cousin the design sprint, came about to solve real, everyday challenges. but do they deliver real value or just an illusion? in this article, shamsi brinn proposes an alternative first sprint that supports agile teamwork and delivers measurable … read more… tris tolliday wrote creating voice skills for google assistant and amazon alexa 15 min read no meows just yet december 23, 2019 — voice assistants are hopping out of emerging tech and into everyday life. as a front end developer, you already have the skills to build one, so let’s dive into the platforms. read more… yihui liu wrote brand illustration systems: drawing a strong visual identity 8 min read no meows just yet december 9, 2019 — brand illustrations are an adaptable and effective way to build a company’s visual brand. in this article, yihui liu outlines her process for developing a strong brand illustration system. read more… suzanne scacca wrote how to use fomo to increase conversions 15 min read no meows just yet november 21, 2019 — what if we removed “fear” from the “fear of missing out” and put the good parts of this marketing strategy to use in web and app design? this article unpacks four ways you can use (f)omo when designing digital experiences. read more… ben frain wrote make your own expanding and contracting content panels 11 min read no meows just yet november 19, 2019 — in ui/ux, a common pattern that’s needed time and again is that of a simple animated opening and closing panel, or ‘drawer’. you don’t need a library to make these. with some basic html/css and javascript, we’re going to learn how to do it ourselves. read more… suzanne scacca wrote how to stop analysis paralysis with design 12 min read no meows just yet november 11, 2019 — when it comes to putting our visitors on the spot, giving them too many options hurts their decision-making ability along with how they feel about the experience as a whole. read more… suzanne scacca wrote build a seamless spreadsheet import experience with the help of flatfile.io 13 min read no meows just yet november 5, 2019 — in this article, we’re going to look at how flatfile helps you create a better import experience for your users, team and product. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top