skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category javascript love it or hate it, javascript is a powerful fellow. no matter if it’s about the daily nuts and bolts or promising innovations, below js experts reveal their best tips and tricks as well as valuable frameworks. related css react creating secure password flows with nodejs and mysql by darshan somashekar 11 min read no meows just yet march 11, 2020 — with the help of using nodejs and mysql, learn how to successfully create a secure reset password flow so you can avoid these pitfalls. 253 more articles phil smith wrote introducing alpine.js: a tiny javascript framework 9 min read no meows just yet march 5, 2020 — ever built a website and reached for jquery, bootstrap, vue.js or react to acheive some basic user interaction? alpine.js is a fraction of the size of these frameworks because it involves no build steps and provides all of the tools you need to build a basic user interface. read more… deven rathore wrote how to build a music manager with nuxt.js and express.js 22 min read no meows just yet february 27, 2020 — this article introduces how multer streamlines the process of handling file uploads. it also introduces how to use mongoose to interact with our database by building a music manager app using express.js alongside multer for the music upload and nuxt.js (vue framework) for … read more… alfrick opidi wrote how to build a simple cryptocurrency blockchain in node.js 11 min read no meows just yet february 21, 2020 — this tutorial demonstrates how to create a simple cryptocurrency, called smashingcoin, using the concepts of javascript classes and node.js. give it a try — it’s simpler than you think! read more… kelvin omereshone wrote setting up api mocking with mirage js and vue.js 12 min read no meows just yet february 13, 2020 — this article introduces mirage js, an api mocking library that lets you build, test and share a complete working javascript application without having to rely on any backend api or services. you’ll also learn how to set up mirage js with the progressive front-end framework, … read more… shajia abidi wrote how to create maps with react and leaflet 10 min read no meows just yet february 7, 2020 — leaflet is a very powerful tool, and we can create a lot of different kinds of maps. this tutorial will help you understand how to create an advanced map along with the help of react and vanilla js. read more… anna prenzel wrote how to create a card matching game using angular and rxjs 18 min read no meows just yet january 30, 2020 — this article is dedicated to angular developers, who want to harness the concept of reactive programming. this is a programming style that — simply put — deals with the processing of asynchronous data streams. read more… matt maribojoc wrote how to pass data between components in vue.js 11 min read no meows just yet january 22, 2020 — with so many different ways to share data across components, you should know which technique is best for your situation. let’s analyze three of the most common ways to pass data in vuejs. read more… jamie corkhill wrote getting started with an express and es6+ javascript stack 89 min read no meows just yet november 22, 2019 — a basic introduction to the backend web application development process with express — discussing bleeding edge es6+ javascript features, the factory design pattern, mongodb crud operations, servers and ports, and the future with enterprise n-tier architectural … read more… ben frain wrote make your own expanding and contracting content panels 11 min read no meows just yet november 19, 2019 — in ui/ux, a common pattern that’s needed time and again is that of a simple animated opening and closing panel, or ‘drawer’. you don’t need a library to make these. with some basic html/css and javascript, we’re going to learn how to do it ourselves. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top