skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category sketch sketch offers a wealth of tools and features to make it the perfect application for today’s designers. to help you get the most out of this mighty tool, the sketch handbook will show you every aspect of it. also, we’ve got some tips and tricks on how to move from photoshop to sketch. related framer x photoshop interaction design how to build a sketch plugin with javascript, html and css (part 2) by matt curtis 18 min read no meows just yet july 8, 2019 — in this second part of our tutorial on building sketch plugins, we’ll pick up where we left off with the building of our user interface, and then we’ll move on to the key feature of actually ... read more… 25 more articles matt curtis wrote how to build a sketch plugin with javascript, html and css (part 1) 24 min read no meows just yet july 5, 2019 — in this two-part article, you’ll learn how to build your our own sketch plugins from scratch — giving you the skills needed to accomplish tasks much faster, easier, and better. read more… emiliano cicero wrote building a component library using figma 14 min read no meows just yet june 17, 2019 — figma has become a very popular tool for web and product designers, mainly because of its focus on design teams and team libraries. this article aims to help you avoid mistakes and assist you with the building of your own figma component library. read more… martina pérez wrote how to start using sketch and framer x 18 min read no meows just yet june 5, 2019 — when it comes to showing the transition, interaction and animation of elements in the user interface, a prototyping tool like framer x can make a difference in the way you communicate your vision to the team and stakeholders and as a result, boost your efficiency as a … read more… mikołaj dobrucki wrote a practical guide to svg and design tools 33 min read no meows just yet may 3, 2019 — to make the best of svg, it’s useful not only to learn its syntax but also to understand how svg is generated by graphic design software. let’s take a closer look at the process of generating svg with popular design apps and how we can use them to our own advantage. read more… ashish bogawat wrote sketch vs figma, adobe xd, and other ui design applications 28 min read no meows just yet april 19, 2019 — for a while now, sketch has been the de facto application of choice for ux and ui designers. but in the last year or two, we have seen many new contenders for the sketch’s crown. two of them that have made the biggest strides are figma and adobe xd. in this article, i’ll try … read more… paul hanaoka wrote design at scale: one year with figma 15 min read no meows just yet april 15, 2019 — whether you’re a designer or developer, it can be challenging to stay current in this fast-paced world where it feels like new tools are product hunted on a weekly basis. if you’re working in a larger team, and especially if you’re working in an enterprise or b2b … read more… nick babich wrote design system: what it is and how to create one using indigo.design 10 min read no meows just yet april 2, 2019 — design systems have changed the way we design and build applications. they are quickly becoming a cornerstone of an organization’s digital product strategy. indigo.design is a tool that offers a ready-to-use design system that can be adapted to your individual needs. read more… lachezar petkov wrote the new framer x: initial impressions 17 min read no meows just yet october 1, 2018 — the framer team recently changed course with the announcement of a new prototyping tool, framer x. lachezar petkov got to play with it during the beta phase and discusses its brand new features in this article. read more… ahmed sulaiman wrote optimizing sketch files: lessons learned in creating the reduce app (case study) 12 min read no meows just yet january 23, 2018 — there are huge sketch files that exist, and not only do they slow down sketch, but also any designer’s productivity. in this article, ahmed introduces a menu bar application that is bound to help you get rid of this headache. read more… 1 2 3 next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top