skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category design patterns found in user interfaces as well as in ux design, design patterns are very useful to designers. not only are they an important guide to any experienced ui designer, but they’re also unavoidable if we want to create inclusive experiences. related ux design user experience ui what newspapers can teach us about web design by frederick o'brien 17 min read no meows just yet november 8, 2019 — before the home page, there was the front page. from the gutenberg principle to grid systems to above the fold, newspapers teach us much about the foundations of web design. 45 more articles suzanne scacca wrote signs your website feels more like a haunted house than a welcoming home 13 min read no meows just yet october 31, 2019 — what is it that makes a haunted house feel so disturbing? is it the fact that it’s been long abandoned? that it’s riddled with dark and twisty hallways? that it simulates danger? or maybe it’s the low-quality construction that makes people nervous? we’re going to take these … read more… susan weinschenk wrote biometrics and neuro-measurements for user testing 11 min read no meows just yet march 7, 2019 — if you haven’t already researched biometrics for your user testing projects, perhaps it’s something you’d like to check out as an addition to your current testing. read more… susan weinschenk wrote how people make decisions 10 min read no meows just yet february 7, 2019 — it’s important to understand that all decisions involve emotions. in this article, susan weinschenk explains how you can make your users feel confident of their decisions and why it’s a bad idea to provide more than four options to choose from. read more… slava shestopalov wrote how to architect a complex web table 17 min read no meows just yet february 6, 2019 — tables frequently appear on the web but aren’t easy to design and code. this illustrated guide explains the table anatomy and how to build a table, keeping in mind its future elaboration. read more… huijing chen wrote table design patterns on the web 11 min read no meows just yet january 24, 2019 — tables are a design pattern for displaying large amounts of data in rows and columns, and have not yet seemed to fall out of favor, so let’s take a look at how we can create tables on the web in 2019. read more… susan weinschenk wrote grabbing visual attention with the visual cortex 5 min read no meows just yet january 17, 2019 — given the way our brains work, there are things you can do that will grab your user’s visual attention. in this article, susan weinschenk explains how the visual cortex of our brains plays a vital role in controlling our behavior. read more… susan weinschenk wrote the importance of macro and micro-moment design 10 min read no meows just yet december 13, 2018 — it’s not just micro-moment design problems that can cause trouble. macro design issues can result in massive ux problems, too. let’s take a closer look at how to avoid such failures and why they are critical to the ux success of any product. read more… maya benari wrote building a large-scale design system for the u.s. government (case study) 17 min read no meows just yet october 9, 2017 — editor’s note: we’ve been closely working with maya on this article, and we’re happy to see the final result now being published on 18f. we highly encourage more teams to share the lessons they learned when building design systems or pattern libraries, and we’re always … read more… vitaly friedman wrote designing the perfect feature comparison table 58 min read no meows just yet august 15, 2017 — for a price tag that meets a certain threshold or if we are particularly invested in the quality of a product, we want to be absolutely certain that we are making the right choice and are getting a good product for a good price. that’s where a feature comparison table … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top