skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category tools see all the smashing articles in our tools category. how to make life easier when using git by shane hudson 19 min read no meows just yet march 27, 2020 — you don’t need to know your trees from your dangling blobs. if you use git every day and feel like it’s a juggling act, then here are some tricks and tips to help make your life a bit easier. 208 more articles paul hanaoka wrote how should designers learn to code? git, html/css, engineering principles (part 2) 20 min read no meows just yet march 25, 2020 — in part 1, paul explained the basics of the terminal, shared a few productivity hacks to get you started, and how to choose a code editor. in this part, he’ll continue with the topics of version control (git), html and css, semantic code, and a brief introduction to some key … read more… kristofer giltvedt selbekk wrote creating sortable tables with react 9 min read no meows just yet march 20, 2020 — making your tables sortable in react might sound like a daunting task, but it doesn’t have to be too difficult. in this article, we’re going to implement all you need to sort out all of your table sorting needs. read more… adrian bece wrote a practical overview of css houdini 21 min read no meows just yet march 19, 2020 — in this article, we take a look at each part of houdini, its current browser support, and see how they can be used today using progressive enhancement. read more… paul hanaoka wrote how should designers learn to code? the terminal and text editors (part 1) 13 min read no meows just yet march 18, 2020 — for the purpose of this two-part series of articles, we’re going to assume the answer for “should designers code?” is “it depends.” in this first part of the series, we’ll take a look at getting comfortable with the command line and text editors. read more… suzanne scacca wrote how indigo.design usability testing takes the guesswork out of web design 12 min read no meows just yet march 17, 2020 — this article explains the process of usability testing: what it is, when you should use it and how to generate data-backed insights while developing your website using indigo.design. read more… sandamal siripathi wrote avoid keyboard event-related bugs in browser-based transliteration 9 min read no meows just yet march 6, 2020 — transliteration is a popular way to input non-english characters using an english keyboard. this article explains a new method to eliminate such browser-related problems when developing web apps that use transliteration. read more… tony kim wrote when you find a good idea, look for a better one 9 min read no meows just yet march 3, 2020 — prototyping helps to formulate the main trajectory of the design by framing your mind around a continuous pursuit of better concepts. meet protopie. read more… suzanne scacca wrote how to make cross-browser testing more efficient with lambdatest 11 min read no meows just yet february 18, 2020 — whether you’re building a new site or you’re managing a live one, you can’t afford to make any changes without a process for cross-browser testing. read more… adonis raduca wrote quantitative data tools for ux designers 13 min read no meows just yet december 19, 2019 — data analysis, tools and workflow are very helpful for ux designers in a data-driven world, especially for those working on visualizations or data products. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top