skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category inspiration there’s no secret recipe to get your creative juices flowing, but some fresh inspiration can sometimes work wonders. no matter if it’s insights into other designers’ projects and approaches or some good ol’ eye candy, the articles below are bound to cater for some new idea sparks. related showcases movie poster designs to inspire your pwa hero images by suzanne scacca 11 min read no meows just yet august 13, 2019 — you don’t have much time to capture the attention of visitors to your pwa. rather than waste that time with an overcrowded hero image or, even worse, disappoint them with a lackluster design, get ... read more… 357 more articles liz elcoate wrote making peace with the feast or famine of freelancing 17 min read no meows just yet august 2, 2019 — the feast or famine merry-go-round of freelancing can certainly be damaging to our bank accounts but more importantly it can deeply affect our self worth and mental health. i’ve learnt some strategies the hard way this year to combat the quiet times. read more… manuela langella wrote mid-century modern illustration: creating a cover book with illustrator and indesign 16 min read no meows just yet may 10, 2019 — do you have a sketch lying around and want to bring it to life? if you’re inspired by mid-century art as much as manuela langella, you’ll love the process and end result of this tutorial. dig out your sketch and fire up illustrator to get started! read more… suzanne scacca wrote finding inspiration in digital influencers 11 min read no meows just yet may 9, 2019 — does the word “influencer” make you cringe? this article aims to show you some of the tricks most digital influencers use to establish authority through design. read more… ricky onsman wrote which podcasts should web designers and developers be listening to? 13 min read no meows just yet april 18, 2018 — we asked the smashing community what podcasts they listened to, aiming to compile a shortlist of current podcasts for web designers and developers. we had what can only be called a very strong response — both in number and in passion. read more… lucia kolesárová wrote designing for the tactile experience 16 min read no meows just yet april 2, 2018 — have you noticed the alarming lack of touch stimuli in current technologies? with the help of this article, let’s aim to consider using more touch and motor skills when designing your very next product. read more… javier cuello wrote the nomadic designer: tips and tricks to work on the road 21 min read no meows just yet march 23, 2018 — the nomadic lifestyle is not right for everyone, but the only way to know for sure is to try. if you can afford to take the risk, go for it. javier cuello shares his experience and insights from his four years of travel and work. read more… the smashing editorial wrote learn from what you see: it all starts with inspiration 6 min read no meows just yet august 4, 2017 — the world around us is full of little things and experiences that shape us, our way of thinking, but also how we tackle our work. influenced by these encounters, every designer develops their unique style and workflow, and studying their artwork — the compositions, geometry … read more… the smashing editorial wrote challenge yourself more often by creating artwork every day 6 min read no meows just yet july 6, 2017 — whether you’re into good ol’ drawing and painting, or quick editing in photoshop or illustrator, one thing’s for sure: they’re all creativity’s best friends. some draw pictures all day, while others find their inspiration in uncommon sources in … read more… alma hoffmann wrote left-handed brush lettering: how to get started 13 min read no meows just yet june 26, 2017 — lettering and calligraphy are quickly becoming desired skills in a designer’s toolbox. designers such as marian bantjes, jessica hische, sean wes and martina flor, just to name a few, have become not only an inspiration to the rest of us, but also a standard. their … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top