skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category illustrator learning by doing is the best way to sharpen your skills. so let’s get your feet wet! below you’ll find step-by-step tutorials you can follow along to get behind the tricky facets of illustrator as well as actionable takeaways from designing vector illustrations. related sketch gravit designer mid-century modern illustration: creating a cover book with illustrator and indesign by manuela langella 16 min read no meows just yet may 10, 2019 — do you have a sketch lying around and want to bring it to life? if you’re inspired by mid-century art as much as manuela langella, you’ll love the process and end result of this tutorial. dig out your ... read more… 31 more articles manuela langella wrote fixed elements and overlays in xd: incredibly easy and fun methods for your prototypes 9 min read no meows just yet september 18, 2018 — over the summer, adobe xd released two great prototyping features: fixed elements and overlays. when you work with prototypes and want them to be more interactive, functions like these will be very helpful. read more… dorota pankowska wrote illustrating animals with 13 circles: a drawing challenge and tutorial 16 min read no meows just yet january 2, 2017 — have you tried drawing animals from circles? it can be quite a challenge, especially if you can only use a particular amount of circles. dorota explains how she created 13 animals with only 13 circles. read more… cameron mcefee wrote enhancing grid design with guideguide, a plugin for photoshop and illustrator 9 min read no meows just yet november 30, 2016 — almost five years ago, i had the honor of writing a post on smashing magazine about my photoshop panel guideguide. since then it has seen wild success as the most installed third-party photoshop extension, an achievement i’m quite proud. in that time, i’ve added some … read more… igor izhik wrote how to create dramatic vector illustrations 22 min read no meows just yet november 10, 2016 — i have been drawing desktop wallpapers for smashing magazine’s monthly collections for over a year now, and every time it’s a very fun and challenging mission. in this article, i would like to share how i approach all stages of the process and provide general … read more… iris lješnjanin wrote best of halloween: all things spooky 7 min read no meows just yet october 18, 2016 — whether or not you celebrate halloween, there is something magical about that special spooky day, surrounded by mystery, horror, scare and trick-or-treat candies for kids and adults alike. in this post, we celebrate the creative side of halloween with those of you who are … read more… manuela langella wrote how to draw a cartoon in illustrator 12 min read no meows just yet march 23, 2016 — drawing a cartoon is no trivial pursuit. it turns us into a director, writer, narrator. through a cartoon or comic, you tell a story that takes place in a certain time, a certain environment, with certain characters. this is why you will learn here not just how to draw a … read more… manuela langella wrote pen tool vs. live trace: the big comparison 11 min read no meows just yet february 4, 2016 — in this tutorial, i will teach you how to work digitally on an image you draw by hand. you will learn two completely different ways to approach the image: through the live trace tool and the pen tool. two ways, two results. learn how to take the best from both. along the … read more… anna shuvalova wrote smashing book #4: behind the scenes 7 min read no meows just yet february 7, 2014 — if you’re a graphic designer, you will often have to work with off-the-shelf material created by others — for instance, combining ready-to-use fonts with images from a photographer or stock website. also, you’ll often have to follow the branding already developed by someone … read more… chen blume wrote blueprints for web and print: specctr, a free adobe illustrator plugin 10 min read no meows just yet november 16, 2013 — have you ever submitted design files to a development team for production and a few weeks later gotten something back that looks nothing like your original work? many designers and design teams make the mistake of thinking that their work is done once they’ve completed the … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top