skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category usability what works for you as a designer won’t necessarily have to work for your users, too. but what exactly are their needs? and which usability best practices have proven themselves in real-life projects? let’s shed some light into the dark with the articles below. related ux design user experience how indigo.design usability testing takes the guesswork out of web design by suzanne scacca 12 min read no meows just yet march 17, 2020 — this article explains the process of usability testing: what it is, when you should use it and how to generate data-backed insights while developing your website using indigo.design. 145 more articles uri shaked wrote recreating the arduino pushbutton using svg and <lit-element> 17 min read no meows just yet january 20, 2020 — in this article, you’ll learn how to build custom html components that mimic physical objects, such as the arduino pushbutton. read more… be birchall wrote web accessibility in context 14 min read no meows just yet june 7, 2019 — in this article, be birchall explains why it’s so important to prioritize accessibility among teams and why there needs to be more awareness raised among developers. read more… nick babich wrote designing for the future with voice prototypes 14 min read no meows just yet may 2, 2019 — it’s essential to be ready to design for both visual and voice. since prototyping for voice is new for many designers, it may be unclear as to where to start and what process to follow. read more… ben christine wrote how to find and make the most of the unplanned user journey 14 min read no meows just yet march 25, 2019 — feedback is the key to understanding whether what you’ve created is valuable or not. in order to have successful products, we need to understand our users and implement great feedback loops. read more… suzanne scacca wrote block kit: slack’s contribution to building a better collaboration ui 9 min read no meows just yet march 14, 2019 — slack has done a lot to bring teams and partners together online. it’s also done a lot to empower developers to build their own custom apps for it. until recently, however, developers were limited by how much they could do to customize the design of those apps. that’s … read more… vadim makeev wrote when is a button not a button? 9 min read no meows just yet february 25, 2019 — not everything that’s round and stands out is considered to be a button. in this article, vadim explains how you can create a proper interactive button for your users — one that shouldn’t be confused for anything else. read more… susan weinschenk wrote grabbing visual attention with the visual cortex 5 min read no meows just yet january 17, 2019 — given the way our brains work, there are things you can do that will grab your user’s visual attention. in this article, susan weinschenk explains how the visual cortex of our brains plays a vital role in controlling our behavior. read more… mat marquis wrote what we wished for 10 min read no meows just yet december 24, 2018 — an old cliché says that “may you get everything you wish for” makes for a particularly insidious curse. with edge soon making the switch to chrome’s rendering engine — well, for better or worse, a bitter wish is coming true. read more… susan weinschenk wrote the importance of macro and micro-moment design 10 min read no meows just yet december 13, 2018 — it’s not just micro-moment design problems that can cause trouble. macro design issues can result in massive ux problems, too. let’s take a closer look at how to avoid such failures and why they are critical to the ux success of any product. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top