skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category android android’s fragmentation is challenging for designers and developers, so how do you approach the process strategically? below are articles and tutorials to help you get your android apps just right. related mobile ios using cscs scripting language for cross-platform development by vassili kaplan 12 min read no meows just yet january 29, 2020 — in this article, vassili kaplan explains how to use a scripting language to develop cross-platform mobile applications. 43 more articles ryan kay wrote testing made easier via framework minimalism and software architecture 25 min read no meows just yet august 22, 2019 — in this article, we will revisit what testing means by a simple analogy, explore concepts in software architecture, and some arguments as to why you might benefit from an attitude of minimalism for your testing process. read more… matthew soucoup wrote saving grandma’s recipes with xamarin.forms 15 min read no meows just yet october 11, 2018 — when creating mobile apps, you have to create and maintain the user interface and app logic for both ios and android separately: objective-c/swift with xcode and java with android studio. that can quickly turn into a pain. with xamarin.forms, however, the ui and app logic … read more… vivek maskara wrote how to improve test coverage for your android app using mockito and espresso 15 min read no meows just yet july 25, 2018 — frameworks such as espresso and mockito provide easy-to-use apis that make writing tests for various scenarios easier. let’s cover the fundamentals of testing and frameworks which developers can use to write unit tests. read more… ahmed bouchefra wrote building mobile apps with capacitor and vue.js 12 min read no meows just yet july 2, 2018 — in this tutorial, you’ll learn how to use capacitor and cutting-edge web technologies such as vue.js and ionic 4 web components to build cross-platform mobile applications for android and ios. read more… mike bluestein wrote using google’s flutter for truly cross-platform mobile development 14 min read no meows just yet june 21, 2018 — flutter makes building cross-platform mobile applications a breeze. this article introduces flutter, compares it to other mobile development platforms, and shows how to use it to get started building apps. read more… mitch lenton wrote designing for a browserless web 13 min read no meows just yet november 27, 2017 — users couldn’t care less about whether a technology is native, an installed web app or a website. what makes users engage and makes shoppers convert is really the experience itself. in this article, mitch takes a closer look at pwas on android devices and explains how we can … read more… aidan sliney wrote launching an app? make app store optimization your foundation for growth 10 min read no meows just yet august 28, 2017 — most apps developed and released in google’s play store are abandoned by their developers. over half of these apps get fewer than 5000 downloads, and most apps are considered unprofitable. this article is not going to make you the next instagram, but it will hopefully help … read more… alexey perfilov wrote how to set up an automated testing system using android phones (a case study) 19 min read no meows just yet april 4, 2017 — regression testing is one of the most time-consuming tasks when developing a mobile android app. using mymail as a case study, i’d like to share my experience and advice on how to build a flexible and extensible automated testing system for android smartphones — from … read more… chetan giridhar wrote how to simplify networking in android: introducing the volley http library 25 min read no meows just yet march 8, 2017 — volley is a useful library and can save the day for any developer. it’s an integral part of chetan’s toolkit, and it’s a huge win for any development team in any project. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top