skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category apps how do you go about designing an app? well, first things first: since there are so many apps out there already, it would be good to know what the current trends and future prospects of the mobile app market are, right? also, the process behind building an app should not be underestimated — there are a lot of things to keep in mind. don’t worry, we’ve got your back! related mobile ios android avoid keyboard event-related bugs in browser-based transliteration by sandamal siripathi 9 min read no meows just yet march 6, 2020 — transliteration is a popular way to input non-english characters using an english keyboard. this article explains a new method to eliminate such browser-related problems when developing web apps that ... read more… 189 more articles deven rathore wrote how to build a music manager with nuxt.js and express.js 22 min read no meows just yet february 27, 2020 — this article introduces how multer streamlines the process of handling file uploads. it also introduces how to use mongoose to interact with our database by building a music manager app using express.js alongside multer for the music upload and nuxt.js (vue framework) for … read more… philip kiely wrote django highlights: user models and authentication (part 1) 12 min read no meows just yet february 6, 2020 — one major reason to develop a dynamic site is to authenticate users and restrict content. django provides a powerful out-of-the-box user model, and in this article, we’ll walk through the best way to provide secure, intuitive user authentication flows. read more… vassili kaplan wrote using cscs scripting language for cross-platform development 12 min read no meows just yet january 29, 2020 — in this article, vassili kaplan explains how to use a scripting language to develop cross-platform mobile applications. read more… yusuff faruq wrote an introduction to react’s context api 13 min read no meows just yet january 13, 2020 — in this article, you will learn how to use react’s context api which allows you to manage global application states in your react apps without resorting to props drilling. read more… shubham wrote how to create and deploy angular material application 31 min read no meows just yet january 9, 2020 — this article will help you get started with a new angular project from just a thought to deployment. read more… suzanne scacca wrote 5 things to stop doing in mobile app design 17 min read no meows just yet december 30, 2019 — have you ever looked at the design techniques and elements you use to build mobile apps and evaluated whether or not they’re still useful or relevant? if you haven’t done this in a while (or ever), stop what you’re doing and read this. we’re going to look at the 5 things … read more… bryan robinson wrote create a bookmarking application with faunadb, netlify and 11ty 17 min read no meows just yet october 24, 2019 — in this article, we’ll create a personal bookmarking site using faunadb, netlify functions and 11ty data files. read more… shubham wrote animating apps with flutter 14 min read no meows just yet october 14, 2019 — flutter provides great animation support for cross-platform apps. this article explores the new unconventional and an easier way to add animations to apps. read more… robert aboukhalil wrote beyond the browser: getting started with serverless webassembly 7 min read no meows just yet august 28, 2019 — you’ve probably heard of webassembly and why it’s a powerful tool in the browser. in this article, we explore why serverless webassembly might be equally powerful outside the browser, and how to get started using it. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top