skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category animation using animation in design can enhance the user experience if it’s incorporated in the right place at the right time. not only improves it the user experience, it also brings uis to life and makes a fundamental difference on modern websites. related user experience performance performing ios animations on views with uikit and uiview by saravanan v 14 min read no meows just yet november 20, 2019 — this article aims to be a primer on ios animations exhaustively covering different ways of doing so. we start off by understanding the basics of animations, move to the core frameworks building a ... read more… 33 more articles shubham wrote animating apps with flutter 14 min read no meows just yet october 14, 2019 — flutter provides great animation support for cross-platform apps. this article explores the new unconventional and an easier way to add animations to apps. read more… mikołaj dobrucki wrote unleash the power of path animations with svgator 20 min read no meows just yet june 18, 2019 — creating complex svg animations can be a challenging and tedious task — but not anymore. in this article, you will learn how to create path animations for the web using svgator. read more… bryan rasmussen wrote svg circle decomposition to paths 18 min read no meows just yet march 22, 2019 — this article will show you how to turn svg circles into paths which you can use in animation and text paths, as well as how to turn paths into circles. once you’ve figured out how it all works, you’ll be able to achieve some quite practical effects. let’s dig in. read more… val head wrote including animation in your design system 18 min read no meows just yet february 21, 2019 — it’s important to understand how animation can be used (or not used) in your design system. in this article, val head explains how you can help ensure that your brand is using animation consistently and effectively while also helping your team work faster. read more… marina ferreira wrote html5 svg fill animation with css3 and vanilla javascript 12 min read no meows just yet january 4, 2019 — in this article, you can learn how to build the animated note display from the awwwards website. it discusses the html5 svg circle element, its stroke properties, and how to animate them with css variables and vanilla javascript. read more… nick babich wrote practical suggestions to improve usability of landing pages with animation from slides 11 min read no meows just yet october 9, 2018 — good functional animation makes a landing page not just more appealing, but also more usable. when done correctly, animation can turn a landing page from a sequence of sections into a carefully choreographed, memorable experience. meet slides, a framework that will help you … read more… simon schmid wrote introduction to animation and the imessage app store with shruggie 12 min read no meows just yet september 10, 2018 — learn about the basics of animation in after effects by animating one of the most famous type characters and the state of the imessage app store in 2018 when it comes to stickers. read more… the smashing editorial wrote animating svg files with svgator 18 min read no meows just yet july 19, 2018 — we’re pretty excited by tools such as svgator, which really speed up the process when you’re making simple svg animations. here’s how easy it is to use and how you can get a great-looking animation in no time. read more… christopher ng wrote making the transition from after effects to css transitions and keyframes 13 min read no meows just yet december 29, 2017 — as web developers, we need a good foundation to create animations that are both performant and maintainable, which is paramount to the native web app landscape. in this article find out how to go from after effects to css transitions, animations and keyframes. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top