skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category photoshop photoshop is still a favorite among many web designers. so how can you get the most out of it? one of the most important tools to design modules and pages and has some great features such as grid design, designing powerful animations, or just improving your image workflow for retina assets. related sketch ui mid-century modern illustration: creating a cover book with illustrator and indesign by manuela langella 16 min read no meows just yet may 10, 2019 — do you have a sketch lying around and want to bring it to life? if you’re inspired by mid-century art as much as manuela langella, you’ll love the process and end result of this tutorial. dig out your ... read more… 86 more articles manish dudharejia wrote how to convert an infographic into a gifographic using adobe photoshop 15 min read no meows just yet december 13, 2018 — gifographics are the next step in the evolution of infographics. this article will take a closer look at the evolution of infographics and how to make a gifographic by using adobe photoshop. read more… yoanna victorova wrote photoshop workflows and shortcuts for digital artists 23 min read no meows just yet october 16, 2018 — photoshop is what many digital artists, photographers, graphic designers, and even some web developers have in common. what sets us apart is how we use the tool. in this tutorial, yoanna victorova shares her most often used photoshop shortcuts and a few key parts of her … read more… manuela langella wrote how to speed up the wireframing process with photoshop and adobe xd 10 min read no meows just yet june 19, 2018 — (this article is kindly sponsored by adobe.) working with wireframes allows you to get creative without worrying too much about the style or the design of your project. this tutorial will teach you how to create a landing page for an online course website, and offers a … read more… manuela langella wrote prototyping an app’s design from photoshop to adobe xd 7 min read no meows just yet march 21, 2018 — (this article is kindly sponsored by adobe.) there are many ways to design and create an app’s look. learn how to transfer an app’s design from photoshop to xd, continuing to work on it and having fun while prototyping. read more… marc edwards wrote taming advanced color palettes in photoshop, sketch and affinity designer 16 min read no meows just yet july 17, 2017 — creating large, harmonious and uniform color palettes can be a challenge. good intentions and confident plans can be abandoned when things get a little unwieldy. but you can equip yourself with some tools to manage the complexity. with the right techniques, large color … read more… dorota pankowska wrote illustrating animals with 13 circles: a drawing challenge and tutorial 16 min read no meows just yet january 2, 2017 — have you tried drawing animals from circles? it can be quite a challenge, especially if you can only use a particular amount of circles. dorota explains how she created 13 animals with only 13 circles. read more… cameron mcefee wrote enhancing grid design with guideguide, a plugin for photoshop and illustrator 9 min read no meows just yet november 30, 2016 — almost five years ago, i had the honor of writing a post on smashing magazine about my photoshop panel guideguide. since then it has seen wild success as the most installed third-party photoshop extension, an achievement i’m quite proud. in that time, i’ve added some … read more… dan rose wrote photoshop etiquette for responsive web design 6 min read no meows just yet august 17, 2016 — it’s been almost five years since photoshop etiquette launched, which officially makes it a relic on the web. a lot can happen on the web in a few years, and these past five have illustrated that better than most. read more… murdoch carpenter wrote the retina asset workflow you've always wanted for photoshop 14 min read no meows just yet march 22, 2016 — if you’ve dreamed of the day when you could design more than one thing at once in photoshop, the wait is over. you can now have multiple designs right next to each other. design mobile layouts alongside your tablet and desktop layouts. and in this article, we’ll design an … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top