skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category web design the web design industry is evolving at a pace that might feel like the blink of an eye. to make sure you don’t get lost in the bustle, we’ll keep track of it all right here. get ready for new trends and techniques, for perspectives and opinions from the community. related responsive web design ux design what newspapers can teach us about web design by frederick o'brien 17 min read no meows just yet november 8, 2019 — before the home page, there was the front page. from the gutenberg principle to grid systems to above the fold, newspapers teach us much about the foundations of web design. 222 more articles ben seigel wrote a comprehensive website planning guide (part 3) 31 min read no meows just yet march 6, 2018 — planning is essential for most businesses and organizations. unfortunately, when it comes to websites there is often a failure to plan properly or at all. this guide aims to change that. read more… ben seigel wrote a comprehensive website planning guide (part 2) 56 min read no meows just yet february 26, 2018 — planning is essential for most businesses and organizations. unfortunately, when it comes to websites there is often a failure to plan properly or at all. this guide aims to change that. read more… ben seigel wrote a comprehensive website planning guide (part 1) 27 min read no meows just yet february 20, 2018 — planning is essential for most businesses and organizations. unfortunately, when it comes to websites there is often a failure to plan properly or at all. this guide aims to change that. read more… nick babich wrote a comprehensive guide to web design 33 min read no meows just yet november 21, 2017 — in this article, i’ll focus on the main principles, heuristics and approaches that will help you to create a great user experience for your website. i’ll start with global things like the user journey (how to define the “skeleton” of the website) and work down to the … read more… victor yocco wrote connecting with users: incorporating humor in web design 17 min read no meows just yet june 20, 2017 — joan is applying for a small loan on all-online-loanzzz.com. she’s becoming frustrated with the number of financial-disclosure forms she has to fill out. she’s thinking about visiting her local bank to ask for a loan instead. while waiting for a page to load, the … read more… jeremy keith wrote the road to resilient web design 18 min read no meows just yet march 23, 2017 — editor’s note: in the world of web design, we tend to become preoccupied with the here and now. in “resilient web design”, jeremy keith emphasizes the importance of learning from the past in order to better prepare ourselves for the future. so, perhaps we … read more… pierre croft wrote axure 8: a comprehensive review 26 min read no meows just yet july 19, 2016 — behind every great invention lie dozens of sacrificed prototypes. it took michele ferrero almost five years to perfect the spherical wafer within the famous chocolates that bear his name. no great product or invention emerges fully formed, and this applies to great websites … read more… scott lewis wrote 6 easy steps to better icon design 16 min read no meows just yet may 11, 2016 — icon and vector marketplaces like iconfinder (where i work) are making well-designed vector icons an inexpensive and readily available resource for web and print designers. thousands of high-quality premium icon sets and hundreds of great free sets are available. every icon … read more… dave schools wrote product design principles: how does your product stack up? 18 min read no meows just yet december 30, 2015 — a company proves that it has a strong creative process by developing successful products repeatedly. we see this in companies like apple, bmw and google. founders such as steve jobs formed a corporate culture with an intense focus on creativity and design. this culture … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top