skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category css css is the language for styling websites, including their colors, layouts, and typography. with css, you can propagate styles to your html components, ensuring a consistent design across all types of devices, browsers, and operating systems. we highly recommend heydon pickering’s introduction to two key css features on creating consistent designs with minimal effort, in addition to using semantic css with intelligent selectors. related html javascript css grid flexbox a practical overview of css houdini by adrian bece 21 min read no meows just yet march 19, 2020 — in this article, we take a look at each part of houdini, its current browser support, and see how they can be used today using progressive enhancement. 304 more articles barry pollard wrote setting height and width on images is important again 17 min read no meows just yet march 9, 2020 — thanks to some recent changes in browsers, it’s now well worth setting width and height attributes on your images to prevent layout shifts and improve the experience of your site visitors. read more… rachel andrew wrote why are we talking about css4? 14 min read no meows just yet march 4, 2020 — around the web and within the css working group, there has been some discussion about whether we should specify a version of css — perhaps naming it css4. in this article, rachel andrew rounds up some of the pros and cons of doing so, and asks for your feedback on the … read more… blessing krofegha wrote setting up tailwind css in a react project 14 min read no meows just yet february 24, 2020 — this article introduces tailwind css, a css library that gives you all of the building blocks you need to build bespoke designs without opinionated styles. you’ll also learn how to seamlessly set up tailwind css in a react project. read more… rachel andrew wrote understanding css grid: grid template areas 11 min read no meows just yet february 12, 2020 — in a new series, rachel andrew breaks down the css grid layout specification. this time, we take a look at how to use grid-template-areas to place items. read more… dan halliday wrote magic flip cards: solving a common sizing problem 11 min read no meows just yet february 5, 2020 — in this article, dan halliday reviews the standard approach to creating animated flip cards, and introduces an improved method which solves its sizing problem. read more… rachel andrew wrote understanding css grid: grid lines 11 min read no meows just yet january 10, 2020 — in a new series, rachel andrew breaks down the css grid layout specification. this time, we take a look at how to use the grid lines to place items. read more… bruce lawson wrote why you should choose html5 <article> over <section> 8 min read no meows just yet january 7, 2020 — in this article, bruce lawson explains what use we have of <section> and how authors should mark up headings that are hugely important to at users. read more… rachel andrew wrote understanding css grid: creating a grid container 14 min read no meows just yet january 3, 2020 — in a new series, rachel andrew breaks down the css grid layout specification. this time, we take a detailed look at what happens when you create a grid container and the various properties that can be applied to the container to shape your grid. read more… rachel andrew wrote helping browsers optimize with the css contain property 8 min read no meows just yet december 27, 2019 — the css contain property gives you a way to explain your layout to the browser, so performance optimizations can be made. however, it does come with some side effects in terms of your layout. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top