skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category ui (user interfaces) mobile devices have changed the way we design interfaces significantly, and with chatbots and vr taking over, entirely new challenges are upon us. below, ui experts share what’s to keep in mind to make interaction delightful, intuitive and future-proof. related ux design usability interfaces what does a foldable web actually mean? by frederick o'brien 11 min read no meows just yet february 26, 2020 — foldable devices have brought with them talk of a ‘foldable web,’ and the idea that long-standing web conventions may be on the verge of a serious shakeup. is it all hype, or is it time to get ... read more… 79 more articles vitaly friedman wrote meet “the ethical design handbook”: how to leave dark patterns behind 9 min read no meows just yet february 4, 2020 — meet ethical design handbook, our new practical guide on how to influence a positive change in your company and help your business grow sustainably. without dark patterns, with ethics in mind, and ready for gdpr and ccpa. read more… anna prenzel wrote how to create a card matching game using angular and rxjs 18 min read no meows just yet january 30, 2020 — this article is dedicated to angular developers, who want to harness the concept of reactive programming. this is a programming style that — simply put — deals with the processing of asynchronous data streams. read more… tris tolliday wrote creating voice skills for google assistant and amazon alexa 15 min read no meows just yet december 23, 2019 — voice assistants are hopping out of emerging tech and into everyday life. as a front end developer, you already have the skills to build one, so let’s dive into the platforms. read more… alvin wan wrote how to build a real-time multiplayer virtual reality game (part 2) 12 min read no meows just yet december 5, 2019 — in this tutorial, you will write the game mechanics for a virtual reality game, which is closely coupled with the real-time multiplayer elements of the game. read more… tomáš čakloš wrote get started with ui design with these tips to speed up your workflow 11 min read no meows just yet december 4, 2019 — when you are working on a design, do you struggle with all of the possibilities, like whether to make some text block bigger or smaller, or increase (or decrease) the amount of white space around an element. and what about this color: should it be darker, or maybe lighter? … read more… vitaly friedman wrote meet “inclusive components”: accessible, bulletproof front-end patterns 10 min read no meows just yet december 3, 2019 — heydon pickering’s new book inclusive components is now shipping worlwide. the book explores accessible and robust solutions for the ui patterns we use every day. read more… saravanan v wrote performing ios animations on views with uikit and uiview 14 min read no meows just yet november 20, 2019 — this article aims to be a primer on ios animations exhaustively covering different ways of doing so. we start off by understanding the basics of animations, move to the core frameworks building a single example using the different methods offered and finally looking at ways … read more… ben frain wrote make your own expanding and contracting content panels 11 min read no meows just yet november 19, 2019 — in ui/ux, a common pattern that’s needed time and again is that of a simple animated opening and closing panel, or ‘drawer’. you don’t need a library to make these. with some basic html/css and javascript, we’re going to learn how to do it ourselves. read more… vitaly friedman wrote meet “inclusive components”, a new printed book by heydon pickering 8 min read no meows just yet november 7, 2019 — heydon pickering’s new book inclusive components explores more accessible and robust solutions for the ui patterns we author, plug in, and use every day. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top