skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category typography information architects’ oliver reichenstein wrote in 2006 that “web design is 95% typography.” much of the web content we consume every day consists of the written word, and hence delivering and displaying web fonts in a readable and performant manner is one of the key aspects of designing a website._so let’s dive right into the nitty gritty details — from responsive typography to lettering and calligraphy inspiration. related css responsive web design performance get started with ui design with these tips to speed up your workflow by tomáš čakloš 11 min read no meows just yet december 4, 2019 — when you are working on a design, do you struggle with all of the possibilities, like whether to make some text block bigger or smaller, or increase (or decrease) the amount of white space around an ... read more… 127 more articles noemi stauffer wrote 7 gorgeous free and open-source typefaces and when to use them 8 min read no meows just yet july 17, 2019 — if you’re looking for a useful free font with a bit of an edge, look no further than this collection of modern typefaces. these sleek and versatile fonts are perfect for all sorts of designs, from websites to printed material, and they are all completely free for both … read more… carolyn porter wrote designing a font based on old handwriting 18 min read no meows just yet january 10, 2019 — are you considering transforming old cursive handwriting into a modern digital font? in this article, carolyn porter gives advice on what to keep in mind when designing and releasing a new font. read more… suzanne scacca wrote a reference guide for typography in mobile web design 20 min read no meows just yet june 1, 2018 — in terms of how to handle typography in mobile web design, it appears that simpler and safer works best. in this article, we will break down the elements you need to pay attention to in mobile typography and then visit what the research says about how to handle them. read more… françois poizat wrote how new font technologies will improve the web 18 min read no meows just yet september 18, 2017 — words are the primary component of content for the web. however, until a short while ago, all we had at our disposal were but a few system fonts. adding to that, those system typefaces weren’t necessarily coherent from operating system to operating system (os). fortunately, … read more… alma hoffmann wrote left-handed brush lettering: how to get started 13 min read no meows just yet june 26, 2017 — lettering and calligraphy are quickly becoming desired skills in a designer’s toolbox. designers such as marian bantjes, jessica hische, sean wes and martina flor, just to name a few, have become not only an inspiration to the rest of us, but also a standard. their … read more… jake wilson wrote fluid responsive typography with css poly fluid sizing 12 min read no meows just yet may 15, 2017 — fluid layouts have been a normal part of front-end development for years. the idea of fluid typography, however, is relatively new and has yet to be fully explored. up until now, most developers’ idea of fluid typography is simply using viewport units maybe with some … read more… alma hoffmann wrote brush lettering: it only gets better after practice (part 2) 24 min read no meows just yet december 1, 2016 — in the first part of this article, we discussed the resurgence of lettering, we defined the differences between lettering, calligraphy, and typeface design, and we also discussed pens, papers, and other supplies. in this second part, i will share with you how i got started, … read more… alma hoffmann wrote brush lettering: it only gets better after practice (part 1) 30 min read no meows just yet november 25, 2016 — the resurgence of hand lettering, calligraphy, signage, penmanship, or really anything that is graphic and handmade is increasingly difficult to ignore. along with letters drawn in any of the categories just mentioned, drawing, sketching, sketchnoting, and any hybrid style … read more… amber bartek wrote the art of hand lettering 11 min read no meows just yet september 16, 2016 — hand lettering has taken the world by storm. it has become the beautiful connection — a juxtaposition — between design and words. the letter forms in the typography have been broken down into their shapes, flourishes, and textures. hand lettering speaks volumes. this is an … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top