skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category responsive web design responsive web design has become the default of web design. find out how to use smart responsive design patterns on your site and how to implement a more efficient responsive design process within your company. related design systems pattern libraries what does a foldable web actually mean? by frederick o'brien 11 min read no meows just yet february 26, 2020 — foldable devices have brought with them talk of a ‘foldable web,’ and the idea that long-standing web conventions may be on the verge of a serious shakeup. is it all hype, or is it time to get ... read more… 144 more articles suzanne scacca wrote designing complex responsive tables in wordpress 12 min read no meows just yet september 24, 2019 — we don’t have any excuse for creating poor experiences today. here’s what you need to know about designing complex tables for your mobile visitors in wordpress. read more… arturas leonovas wrote bottom navigation pattern on mobile web pages: a better alternative? 11 min read no meows just yet august 29, 2019 — as our phones are getting bigger, we need to adjust how we build and design our websites. is there something to learn from app design and tap bars? can we fix the mobile navigation of our websites to have a lower interaction cost? in this article, we’ll find out. read more… andrew clarke wrote art direction for the web using css shapes 12 min read no meows just yet april 11, 2019 — last year, rachel andrew wrote “take a new look at css shapes” where she reintroduced readers to the basics of using css shapes. in this new tutorial, andy clarke expands on the topic of “art direction for the web” with css shapes to create exciting and inspired new design … read more… bruce lawson wrote meet “art direction for the web,” a new smashing book by andy clarke 7 min read no meows just yet march 26, 2019 — art direction has been part of advertising and print design for over 100 years, but on the web art direction is rare and there have been few meaningful conversations about it. art direction for the web by andy clarke changes that and explains art direction, what it means, … read more… russell bishop wrote building robust layouts with container units 5 min read no meows just yet march 5, 2019 — when inspecting most other grids in devtools, you’ll notice that column widths are dependent on their parent element. this article will help you understand how to overcome these limitations using css variables and how you can start building with container units. read more… tamas piros wrote managing image breakpoints with angular 9 min read no meows just yet february 14, 2019 — a built-in angular feature called breakpoint observer gives us a powerful interface for dealing with responsive images. let’s take a look at a service that allows us to serve, transform and manage images in the cloud. read more… slava shestopalov wrote how to architect a complex web table 17 min read no meows just yet february 6, 2019 — tables frequently appear on the web but aren’t easy to design and code. this illustrated guide explains the table anatomy and how to build a table, keeping in mind its future elaboration. read more… huijing chen wrote table design patterns on the web 11 min read no meows just yet january 24, 2019 — tables are a design pattern for displaying large amounts of data in rows and columns, and have not yet seemed to fall out of favor, so let’s take a look at how we can create tables on the web in 2019. read more… rachel andrew wrote when and how to use css multi-column layout 11 min read no meows just yet january 11, 2019 — the multi-column layout spec is often overlooked as we use grid and flexbox. in this article rachel andrew explains why it is different to other layout methods, and shows some useful patterns and sites which showcase it well. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top