skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category plugins using the right plugins can tremendously improve your workflow or your site’s performance. here come the nitty-gritty details of what you have to keep in mind when building your own plugin and which ones are worth taking a closer look at. related wordpress how to book more appointments and events with a wordpress booking plugin by suzanne scacca 13 min read no meows just yet february 11, 2020 — by using the amelia booking plugin for wordpress, you can create booking widgets that collect more appointments (and revenue) for your clients. this article explains how. 56 more articles andriy haydash wrote developing a custom plugin for october cms 12 min read no meows just yet october 8, 2019 — if you like writing object-oriented and easy-to-read code, then this article is for you. you’ll learn how to write your own plugin and why october may be a good choice for your next project. read more… leonardo losoviz wrote the (upcoming) wordpress renaissance 12 min read no meows just yet august 15, 2019 — since its release 8 months ago, gutenberg has been greatly improved, offering a user experience much richer than anything that was possible in wordpress. let’s take a look at its latest developments, and where it is heading to. read more… andy bell wrote what can be learned from the gutenberg accessibility situation? 8 min read no meows just yet december 7, 2018 — wordpress has a brand new content editor called “gutenberg” that is going to shape wordpress for years to come. in this article, andy bell explains why it’s a movement and not just a new editor. read more… leonardo losoviz wrote caching smartly in the age of gutenberg 13 min read no meows just yet december 5, 2018 — when optimizing the speed of our websites from the server side, caching ranks among the most critical tasks to get just right. in this article, leonardo losoviz examines an architecture based on self-rendering components and ssr, and analyzes how to implement it for … read more… leonardo losoviz wrote implications of thinking in blocks instead of blobs 19 min read no meows just yet november 20, 2018 — what does gutenberg bring to the future of wordpress? in this article, leonardo losoviz shares a number of implications of building sites through a component-based architecture (as the concept) and through gutenberg (as the implementation), including what new functionalities … read more… muhammad muhsin wrote getting started with gutenberg by creating your own block 12 min read no meows just yet october 8, 2018 — gutenberg is the future of wordpress, and it is just around the corner. brace up for it by learning how to build your own custom gutenberg block. read more… jakub mikita wrote how to build a website with the wp page builder plugin 10 min read no meows just yet october 2, 2018 — looking for a way to create your own website without having to hire a developer? search no more: the wp page builder is a free plugin that does most of the heavy lifting for you. read more… manish dudharejia wrote the complete anatomy of the gutenberg wordpress editor 14 min read no meows just yet august 14, 2018 — an in-depth analysis of the new gutenberg editor and its impact on the wordpress web development. in this article, you’ll learn a few hands-on tricks that will prove useful especially if you are using gutenberg for the first time. read more… jakub mikita wrote wordpress notifications made easy 13 min read no meows just yet july 26, 2018 — have you been looking for a way to create a notification system when using wordpress? meet the ‘notification’ plugin, an all-in-one solution for any custom wordpress notification system. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top