skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category mobile the web has spread from clunky desktop screens to our pockets and even wrists. this brings along entirely new challenges for web designers — just think gesture controls, progressive web apps, or managing app data. get things right with the articles below. related android apps ios how to increase mobile conversions with category page design by suzanne scacca 9 min read no meows just yet march 26, 2020 — recent research has found that e-commerce category pages have higher click-through rates in search than individual category pages. so, if your e-commerce site is struggling to attract shoppers and ... read more… 331 more articles vassili kaplan wrote using cscs scripting language for cross-platform development 12 min read no meows just yet january 29, 2020 — in this article, vassili kaplan explains how to use a scripting language to develop cross-platform mobile applications. read more… suzanne scacca wrote how to decide which pwa elements should stick 12 min read no meows just yet january 2, 2020 — are you using sticky elements on your mobile website or pwa? if so, take a moment and ask yourself this question: do you have anything in them besides your logo, hamburger menu or search bar? read more… suzanne scacca wrote 5 things to stop doing in mobile app design 17 min read no meows just yet december 30, 2019 — have you ever looked at the design techniques and elements you use to build mobile apps and evaluated whether or not they’re still useful or relevant? if you haven’t done this in a while (or ever), stop what you’re doing and read this. we’re going to look at the 5 things … read more… suzanne scacca wrote should your portfolio site be a pwa? 10 min read no meows just yet december 12, 2019 — you spend so much time focused on other people’s websites that it’s easy to put yours on the backburner and tell yourself, “i’ll fix it up someday soon.” but do you really want to wait to improve your professional portfolio site? read more… suzanne scacca wrote how to design profitable sales funnels on mobile 16 min read no meows just yet december 6, 2019 — every website or pwa you build should automate as much prospecting and selling as possible. the only thing is that visitors enter websites with various mindsets, depending on which part of the buying stage they’re at. this means that you can’t just take every person who … read more… saravanan v wrote performing ios animations on views with uikit and uiview 14 min read no meows just yet november 20, 2019 — this article aims to be a primer on ios animations exhaustively covering different ways of doing so. we start off by understanding the basics of animations, move to the core frameworks building a single example using the different methods offered and finally looking at ways … read more… suzanne scacca wrote how to use breadcrumbs on a pwa 17 min read no meows just yet october 9, 2019 — pwas are supposed to provide visitors with a better experience than a mobile website. but just because pwas will use sticky navigation the way that native apps do, that doesn’t make them as easy to get around. if you’re worried that your pwa is going to be difficult to … read more… arturas leonovas wrote bottom navigation pattern on mobile web pages: a better alternative? 11 min read no meows just yet august 29, 2019 — as our phones are getting bigger, we need to adjust how we build and design our websites. is there something to learn from app design and tap bars? can we fix the mobile navigation of our websites to have a lower interaction cost? in this article, we’ll find out. read more… ahmed bouchefra wrote building mobile apps with ionic and react 9 min read no meows just yet august 7, 2019 — react developers can get the advantages of ionic to build hybrid mobile apps and progressive web apps. in this tutorial, we’ll be using ionic and react to build a mobile app from scratch. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top