skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category e-commerce nearly 68% of online shopping carts are abandoned. reducing the number of abandoned carts would lead to higher store revenue — the goal of every online retailer. so, how can we design a better checkout experience? read on how to design better feature comparison tables, accordions, or date pickers. related forms product strategy how to use fomo to increase conversions by suzanne scacca 15 min read no meows just yet november 21, 2019 — what if we removed “fear” from the “fear of missing out” and put the good parts of this marketing strategy to use in web and app design? this article unpacks four ways you can use (f)omo when ... read more… 56 more articles matt zand wrote creating a shopping cart with html5 web storage 12 min read no meows just yet august 26, 2019 — this tutorial will show you how to harness the power of html5 web storage by creating a shopping cart step-by-step. what you learn from this tutorial can easily be applied to other site features that may not require database storage and more. read more… suzanne scacca wrote get your mobile site ready for the 2018 holiday season 19 min read no meows just yet september 3, 2018 — the 2017 holiday season proved — once again — that e-commerce has become a major part of consumers’ shopping habits. this guide will take a closer look at the role mobile websites played in sales from that time period and how to use that data to prepare your … read more… nick babich wrote best practices for mobile form design 33 min read no meows just yet august 28, 2018 — users can be hesitant to fill out forms. that is why it is our goal as designers to make the process of filling out a form as easy as possible. in this article, i’ll share a number of practical techniques that are bound to help you design effective forms. read more… suzanne scacca wrote what you need to know to increase mobile checkout conversions 21 min read no meows just yet april 20, 2018 — data tells us that there are more mobile than desktop web visits. however, mobile conversion rates are still lagging behind those on desktop. this article will dig into why your mobile visitors are willing to ditch their purchases altogether. read more… christine logan wrote offboarding in the online world 14 min read no meows just yet january 29, 2018 — offboarding is something users come into contact with every time they complete an online transaction. learn about the benefits offboarding can bring to your company and how to apply it in such a way that it is a good experience for all users. read more… peter o'shaughnessy wrote introducing web payments: easier online purchases with the payment request api 9 min read no meows just yet january 2, 2018 — the w3c working group has been busy developing new standards to help make online payments much easier. in this article, peter o’shaughnessy provides you with the latest updates and explores the api with a basic example. read more… vitaly friedman wrote designing the perfect feature comparison table 58 min read no meows just yet august 15, 2017 — for a price tag that meets a certain threshold or if we are particularly invested in the quality of a product, we want to be absolutely certain that we are making the right choice and are getting a good product for a good price. that’s where a feature comparison table … read more… anya pratskevich wrote reaching the millennials: mobile marketing trends and techniques 7 min read no meows just yet june 19, 2017 — the average american spends at least five hours per day on their smartphone. so, why is it so hard to make mobile ads work? marketers toil over clicks and conversions on highly targeted ads, but users, tired of intrusive banners, keep installing ad blockers. with $100 … read more… steve benjamins wrote an overview of e-commerce platforms 27 min read no meows just yet april 6, 2017 — did you know that bandwidth overage charges are (still) a problem and most users prefer not to rely on a developer? well, i talked to 917 (real-life) users and created a guide to help others find the e-commerce software that suits them best. i completed this guide by … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top