skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category pattern libraries see all the smashing articles in our pattern libraries category. pattern library first: an approach for managing css by rachel andrew 19 min read no meows just yet july 9, 2018 — css can be hard to manage across a project, especially when you need to include media queries for various breakpoints and fallbacks for older browsers. in this article, we will take a look at using ... read more… 7 more articles vitaly friedman wrote meet “design systems”, a new smashing book 7 min read no meows just yet october 10, 2017 — what are the key qualities of a well-functioning, enduring design system? throughout the book, alla will share an approach that will help you every day with your work. read more… maya benari wrote building a large-scale design system for the u.s. government (case study) 17 min read no meows just yet october 9, 2017 — editor’s note: we’ve been closely working with maya on this article, and we’re happy to see the final result now being published on 18f. we highly encourage more teams to share the lessons they learned when building design systems or pattern libraries, and we’re always … read more… heydon pickering wrote building pattern libraries with shadow dom in markdown 14 min read no meows just yet july 11, 2017 — some people hate writing documentation, and others just hate writing. i happen to love writing; otherwise, you wouldn’t be reading this. it helps that i love writing because, as a design consultant offering professional guidance, writing is a big part of what i do. but … read more… brad frost wrote the atomic workflow — people, process, and making design systems happen 54 min read no meows just yet december 6, 2016 — editor’s note: _we are all trying to figure it out: how do we design flexible and future-proof responsive websites without reinventing the wheel every time a new requirement comes in? you’ve heard of atomic design, but how do we actually make it applicable in …read more… vitaly friedman wrote taking the pattern library to the next level 45 min read no meows just yet october 13, 2016 — finding the right way to architect a lasting pattern library is difficult. this article highlights some practical techniques and strategies to establish a pattern library that will be actively and consistently used by the entire team. read more… brad frost, dave olsen and brian muenzenmeyer wrote how to make and maintain atomic design systems with pattern lab 2 30 min read no meows just yet july 13, 2016 — the benefits of ui design systems are now well known. they lead to more cohesive, consistent user experiences. they speed up your team’s workflow, allowing you to launch more stuff while saving huge amounts of time and money in the process. they establish a common vocabulary … read more… varya stepanova & juuso backman wrote how to automate style guide-driven development 26 min read no meows just yet march 5, 2015 — style guides come in many forms and shapes, but in this article we’ll concentrate on style guides that are generated directly from the style definition sources — i.e. css and its modern variants. read more… no need to be sad! there are no more articles in this category, but you can subscribe to our newsletter to not miss the next one. your (smashing) email subscribe → useful tips for web designers. sent 2× a month. you can unsubscribe any time — obviously. browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top