skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category html whether your web page is a static site or a single-page app, it is unavoidably a document. html is the foundation of all websites. that’s why we should keep our css separated from html and why using semantic html matters most when building websites. related css how to use the html drag-and-drop api in react by chidi orji 9 min read no meows just yet february 19, 2020 — in this tutorial, we’ll learn about the html drag-and-drop api and how to use the usereducer hook for managing state in a react functional component. 68 more articles uri shaked wrote recreating the arduino pushbutton using svg and <lit-element> 17 min read no meows just yet january 20, 2020 — in this article, you’ll learn how to build custom html components that mimic physical objects, such as the arduino pushbutton. read more… bruce lawson wrote why you should choose html5 <article> over <section> 8 min read no meows just yet january 7, 2020 — in this article, bruce lawson explains what use we have of <section> and how authors should mark up headings that are hugely important to at users. read more… ben frain wrote make your own expanding and contracting content panels 11 min read no meows just yet november 19, 2019 — in ui/ux, a common pattern that’s needed time and again is that of a simple animated opening and closing panel, or ‘drawer’. you don’t need a library to make these. with some basic html/css and javascript, we’re going to learn how to do it ourselves. read more… matt curtis wrote how to build a sketch plugin with javascript, html and css (part 2) 18 min read no meows just yet july 8, 2019 — in this second part of our tutorial on building sketch plugins, we’ll pick up where we left off with the building of our user interface, and then we’ll move on to the key feature of actually generating our layer mosaics and optimizing the final plugin code. read more… matt curtis wrote how to build a sketch plugin with javascript, html and css (part 1) 24 min read no meows just yet july 5, 2019 — in this two-part article, you’ll learn how to build your our own sketch plugins from scratch — giving you the skills needed to accomplish tasks much faster, easier, and better. read more… sameer borate wrote building a node.js express api to convert markdown to html 13 min read no meows just yet april 23, 2019 — learn how to use node.js and the express framework in order to create an api endpoint — in the context of building an application that converts markdown syntax to html. read more… leonardo losoviz wrote caching smartly in the age of gutenberg 13 min read no meows just yet december 5, 2018 — when optimizing the speed of our websites from the server side, caching ranks among the most critical tasks to get just right. in this article, leonardo losoviz examines an architecture based on self-rendering components and ssr, and analyzes how to implement it for … read more… leonardo losoviz wrote avoiding the pitfalls of automatically inlined code 17 min read no meows just yet november 26, 2018 — overusing inline css or js code, as opposed to serving code through static resources, can harm the site’s performance. in this article, we will learn how to load dynamic code through static files instead, avoiding the drawbacks of too much inline code. read more… leonardo losoviz wrote implications of thinking in blocks instead of blobs 19 min read no meows just yet november 20, 2018 — what does gutenberg bring to the future of wordpress? in this article, leonardo losoviz shares a number of implications of building sites through a component-based architecture (as the concept) and through gutenberg (as the implementation), including what new functionalities … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top