skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category freebies this section contains dozens of freely available resources that were released on smashing magazine over the last years. you will find many icons, brushes, templates, psds, vector kits and tools that you can use without any restrictions whatsoever in your private and commercial projects. related icons 7 gorgeous free and open-source typefaces and when to use them by noemi stauffer 8 min read no meows just yet july 17, 2019 — if you’re looking for a useful free font with a bit of an edge, look no further than this collection of modern typefaces. these sleek and versatile fonts are perfect for all sorts of designs, from ... read more… 185 more articles the smashing editorial wrote the future is here! augmented and virtual reality icon set 3 min read no meows just yet may 18, 2018 — looking for an icon set that’ll take you on a journey through ar and vr technology? we’ve got your back with these funky icons and illustrations brought to you by the vexels team. read more… cosima mielke wrote free adobe xd icon sets made by legendary designers 3 min read no meows just yet february 9, 2018 — (this article is kindly sponsored by adobe.) three world-renowned designers — lance wyman, anton & irene, and büro destruct — created three ux-themed icon kits that you can download and use for free in adobe xd. read more… cosima mielke wrote 77 hand-drawn space icons that’ll take you into unexplored territories (freebie) 3 min read no meows just yet february 8, 2018 — a free icon set with everything related to space: rockets, space shuttles, meteors, stars, and everything else you might come across on a space mission. available in svg, eps, ai, png. read more… cosima mielke wrote 32 free and friendly office icons 2 min read no meows just yet december 20, 2017 — a free icon set created by the creative folks at vexels. 32 office motifs, four formats (ai, eps, svg, and tiff). read more… cosima mielke wrote 60 travel icons to awaken your wanderlust (freebie) 2 min read no meows just yet september 26, 2017 — summer might be over, but the memories of the places you’ve visited and the people you’ve met remain. no matter if you explored an exotic country, packed your car for a road trip or took out the hiking boots to discover the nature around you — traveling is a great … read more… cosima mielke wrote free business icons for the startup world (28 icons, 5 formats) 2 min read no meows just yet july 4, 2017 — what comes to your mind when you hear the word “business”? white collars, cubicle offices, and encrusted habits? not when you ask the folks at vexels. their business concept icon set manages to break free from the conceptions that are stuck in our heads and paints a fresh … read more… iris lješnjanin wrote free icon set: happy 4th of july (20 icons, png, eps, ai, svg) 2 min read no meows just yet june 21, 2017 — every once in a while, we publish freebies related to different occasions and themes. today, we’d like to share an icon set dedicated to a well-known upcoming american holiday. read more… cosima mielke wrote free geometric ui icons with a fresh and futuristic twist (100 icons, 6 formats) 2 min read no meows just yet may 26, 2017 — how about an icon set that gives your ui designs just that finishing touch they need? one that stands out while keeping the design clear and legible? vincent le moign spent two years on designing such a set, and we are very happy to feature part of it as a freebie today. the … read more… cosima mielke wrote free sparkly icons to (literally) make your designs shine (30 icons, eps, svg) 2 min read no meows just yet march 10, 2017 — what would life be without surprises? pretty plain, wouldn’t you agree? today, we are happy to announce a freebie that bubbles over with its friendly optimistic spirit, bound to sprinkle some unexpected sparks of delight into your projects: ballicons 3. if that name rings a … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top