skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category wallpapers isn’t it great to have a lovely new calendar as your desktop wallpaper each month anew? we thought so, too! in this category, you’ll find nine years of unique wallpapers. created by the design community with love. related freebies embrace the possibilities (march 2020 wallpapers) by cosima mielke 11 min read no meows just yet february 29, 2020 — do you need a little inspiration boost? well, then our new batch of wallpapers is for you. designed by artists and designers from across the globe, they come in versions with and without a calendar ... read more… 126 more articles cosima mielke wrote 29 days of february (2020 wallpapers edition) 10 min read no meows just yet january 31, 2020 — artists and designers from across the globe once again got out their favorite tools and created unique and inspiring wallpapers to welcome the new month. the wallpapers are available with and without a calendar for february 2020 and can be downloaded for free. read more… cosima mielke wrote new adventures ahead! (january 2020 wallpapers) 13 min read no meows just yet december 31, 2019 — happy 2020! let’s welcome the new year with wallpapers created by the community for the community. available with and without a calendar for january, they’ll help guide you through your first adventures of 2020. read more… cosima mielke wrote beating the end of the year rush (december 2019 wallpapers edition) 13 min read no meows just yet november 30, 2019 — december is here and with it a new collection of desktop wallpapers to celebrate the beginning of the month. designed by creatives from all across the globe and available in versions with and without a calendar. read more… cosima mielke wrote creativity sparks shining through the fog (november 2019 wallpapers edition) 10 min read no meows just yet october 31, 2019 — in many parts of the world, november is a rather gray month, so what better way could there be to start it off as with some colorful inspiration? read more… cosima mielke wrote beneath the autumn leaves (october 2019 wallpapers edition) 13 min read no meows just yet september 30, 2019 — get ready for october and the upcoming halloween season with a fresh batch of wallpapers. created with love by the community for the community. read more… cosima mielke wrote blissful thoughts and embracing change (september 2019 wallpapers edition) 11 min read no meows just yet august 31, 2019 — let’s welcome september with a fresh desktop wallpaper. designed by artists and designers from across the globe and available with and without a calendar. read more… cosima mielke wrote adventures in august (2019 wallpapers edition) 10 min read no meows just yet july 31, 2019 — do you need a little inspiration boost? well, then our new batch of wallpapers is for you. designed with love by the community for the community, the wallpapers come in versions with and without a calendar for august 2019. read more… cosima mielke wrote the joys of july (2019 wallpapers edition) 12 min read no meows just yet june 30, 2019 — what could be a better way to welcome the new month than with a fresh wallpaper? well, we might have something for you: wallpapers created with love by the community for the community — all available with and without a calendar for july 2019. read more… cosima mielke wrote inspiring wallpapers for a colorful june (2019 edition) 9 min read no meows just yet may 31, 2019 — let’s kick off june with some fresh inspiration! artists and designers from across the globe once again tickled their creativity to cater for beautiful and unique wallpapers. available with and without a calendar for the month. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top