skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category techniques see all the smashing articles in our techniques category. how to make life easier when using git by shane hudson 19 min read no meows just yet march 27, 2020 — you don’t need to know your trees from your dangling blobs. if you use git every day and feel like it’s a juggling act, then here are some tricks and tips to help make your life a bit easier. 232 more articles kristofer giltvedt selbekk wrote creating sortable tables with react 9 min read no meows just yet march 20, 2020 — making your tables sortable in react might sound like a daunting task, but it doesn’t have to be too difficult. in this article, we’re going to implement all you need to sort out all of your table sorting needs. read more… konstantinos leimonis wrote how to ease your team’s development workflow with git hooks 7 min read no meows just yet december 2, 2019 — development workflows can easily get out of hand and start causing confusion and friction within teams — especially as they get bigger in size. thanks to git and the hooks it provides, we have a great variety of automation that can make our lives easier. read more… ryan kay wrote mastering oop: a practical guide to inheritance, interfaces, and abstract classes 27 min read no meows just yet november 27, 2019 — arguably the worst way to teach the fundamentals of programming, is to describe what something is, without mention of how or when to use it. in this article, ryan m. kay discusses three core concepts in oop. read more… faraz kelhini wrote the essential guide to javascript’s newest data type: bigint 8 min read no meows just yet july 22, 2019 — in javascript, the number type cannot safely represent integer values larger than 2⁵³. this limitation has forced developers to use inefficient workarounds and third-party libraries. bigint is a new data type intended to fix that. read more… jorge ferreiro wrote yarn workspaces: organize your project’s codebase like a pro 8 min read no meows just yet july 18, 2019 — in this article, jorge explains why they’re a great tool and how to create your first monorepo using yarn with basic npm scripts, and add the required dependencies for each app. read more… miriam suzanne wrote css custom properties in the cascade 17 min read no meows just yet july 1, 2019 — in this article, miriam takes a deeper dive into the ‘css custom properties for cascading variables’ specification to ask, “why are they called custom properties, how do they work in the cascade, and what else can we do with them?” read more… jad joubran wrote build a pwa with webpack and workbox 11 min read no meows just yet june 27, 2019 — this tutorial will help you transform an app that doesn’t work offline into a pwa that works offline and shows an update available icon. you’ll also learn how to precache assets with workbox, handle dynamic caching as well as handle updates to your pwa. read more… cory shaw wrote using slack to monitor your app 11 min read no meows just yet february 15, 2019 — for the past few months, i’ve been building a software-as-a-service (saas) application, and throughout the development process i’ve realized what a powerful tool slack (or team chat in general) can be to monitor user and application behavior. after a bit of integration, it’s … read more… ayo isaiah wrote improve animated gif performance with html5 video 10 min read no meows just yet november 5, 2018 — animated gifs are popular on the web for good reason. they provide more engagement than an ordinary image, while remaining more digestible compared to a typical video. however gifs are a terrible format for storing video and are often huge in size leading to slow page load … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top