skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category design this category features articles on general design principles, web design, typography, user interface design and related topics. it also presents design showcases and practical pieces on the business side of design. curated by alma hoffmann. related typography ux design how to increase mobile conversions with category page design by suzanne scacca 9 min read no meows just yet march 26, 2020 — recent research has found that e-commerce category pages have higher click-through rates in search than individual category pages. so, if your e-commerce site is struggling to attract shoppers and ... read more… 431 more articles paul hanaoka wrote how should designers learn to code? git, html/css, engineering principles (part 2) 20 min read no meows just yet march 25, 2020 — in part 1, paul explained the basics of the terminal, shared a few productivity hacks to get you started, and how to choose a code editor. in this part, he’ll continue with the topics of version control (git), html and css, semantic code, and a brief introduction to some key … read more… andrew clarke wrote inspired design decisions with otto storch: when idea, copy, art and typography became inseparable 24 min read no meows just yet march 23, 2020 — in this seventh instalment of inspired design decisions, andy clarke will explore how american art director and graphic designer otto storch inspires his designs for the web. read more… paul hanaoka wrote how should designers learn to code? the terminal and text editors (part 1) 13 min read no meows just yet march 18, 2020 — for the purpose of this two-part series of articles, we’re going to assume the answer for “should designers code?” is “it depends.” in this first part of the series, we’ll take a look at getting comfortable with the command line and text editors. read more… tony kim wrote when you find a good idea, look for a better one 9 min read no meows just yet march 3, 2020 — prototyping helps to formulate the main trajectory of the design by framing your mind around a continuous pursuit of better concepts. meet protopie. read more… andrew clarke wrote inspired design decisions: neville brody design cannot remain neutral 30 min read no meows just yet march 2, 2020 — how do we use blend modes to add depth to our designs, vertical text for impact and clipping paths to bring in character and energy to a design? in this article, we’ll explore just that. read more… maitrik kataria wrote how to design mobile apps for one-hand usage 19 min read no meows just yet february 20, 2020 — 90% of the smartphones sold today have >5-inch displays. bigger screen real estate presents newer challenges and opportunities for app makers and designers. let’s look at how designing apps for one-handed usage can solve those challenges. read more… dave cunningham wrote how to empower design teams by measuring value 9 min read no meows just yet january 24, 2020 — how do we know if we are truly impactful as a design team? are we seen as a vehicle to deliver a solution that moves a needle? it’s time to empower our design teams and give them one voice to show how and when design really adds value. read more… frederick o'brien wrote the split personality of brutalist web development 12 min read no meows just yet january 8, 2020 — no frills, or flashing neon frills with sprinklers attached? ‘brutalist’ websites have flourished in recent years, but their guiding philosophy remains unclear. read more… shamsi brinn wrote beyond sprint 0: an alternative for integrating teams 16 min read no meows just yet december 24, 2019 — sprint 0, and its close cousin the design sprint, came about to solve real, everyday challenges. but do they deliver real value or just an illusion? in this article, shamsi brinn proposes an alternative first sprint that supports agile teamwork and delivers measurable … read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top