skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category design systems as the web continuously becomes more complex, designing static pages has become untenable, so that many of us have started to approach design in a modular way. make sure to check out our design sytems book → related pattern libraries style guides design systems are about relationships by ryan debeasi 12 min read no meows just yet october 7, 2019 — design systems can improve usability, but they can also limit creativity or fall out of sync with actual products. in this article, we’ll explore how designers and developers can create more robust ... read more… 24 more articles nick babich wrote how to ensure your design system helps to achieve the purpose of your product 14 min read no meows just yet october 1, 2019 — design is increasingly becoming more complex. design processes require having a tight cross-functional collaboration between all teams involved in the creation of the product. having a shared design language empowers teams to collaborate more effectively. that’s why many … read more… buzz usborne wrote moving from sketch to figma: a case study of migrating design systems 10 min read no meows just yet september 2, 2019 — switching tools isn’t a decision to be taken lightly. here’s a nuts-and-bolts and behind-the-scenes look at how help scout migrated design systems from sketch to figma — why we made the switch, a step-by-step walkthrough of what it entailed, and what we got out of it … read more… ajay ns wrote styling in modern web apps 15 min read no meows just yet june 10, 2019 — in this article, we welcome you to take a detailed dive into the different ways of organizing styling in modern applications which often have complex interfaces and design patterns. read more… nick babich wrote tips for managing design systems 16 min read no meows just yet may 28, 2019 — a successful design system needs to become part of an organization’s dna that help your team produce more consistent user experiences, and it also builds bridges between design and development, and help you improve your design process without exposing your orgchart. read more… nick babich wrote design system: what it is and how to create one using indigo.design 10 min read no meows just yet april 2, 2019 — design systems have changed the way we design and build applications. they are quickly becoming a cornerstone of an organization’s digital product strategy. indigo.design is a tool that offers a ready-to-use design system that can be adapted to your individual needs. read more… val head wrote including animation in your design system 18 min read no meows just yet february 21, 2019 — it’s important to understand how animation can be used (or not used) in your design system. in this article, val head explains how you can help ensure that your brand is using animation consistently and effectively while also helping your team work faster. read more… knut melvær wrote strategies for headless projects with structured content management systems 29 min read no meows just yet november 29, 2018 — using a structured content management system (scms) can be a great way to free your content from a paradigm that begins to feel its age. in this article, knut melvær suggests some overarching strategies, with some concrete real-world examples on how to think about working … read more… amy thibodeau wrote beyond tools: how building a design system can improve how you work 12 min read no meows just yet march 2, 2018 — this article includes practical advice that will be useful to anyone who is thinking about creating a design system to enable harmonious, integrated, and fundamentally successful product development. read more… cosima mielke wrote free online event on building and maintaining design systems 3 min read no meows just yet january 16, 2018 — 13 live webinars. four days. that’s the design systems virtual summit which our friends at uxpin are hosting from february 13th to 16th. join free from anywhere, and learn from experienced practitioners how to build and maintain a design system efficiently. read more… 1 2 3 next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top