skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category performance performance matters. not only from a technical perspective but also when it comes to how your users perceive your website. here’s everything you need to know to cater for fast response times and smooth experiences. related user experience amp https service workers inspired design decisions with otto storch: when idea, copy, art and typography became inseparable by andrew clarke 24 min read no meows just yet march 23, 2020 — in this seventh instalment of inspired design decisions, andy clarke will explore how american art director and graphic designer otto storch inspires his designs for the web. 118 more articles chidi orji wrote implementing infinite scroll and image lazy loading in react 15 min read no meows just yet march 16, 2020 — in this tutorial, we’re going to learn how to use the html intersection observer api to implement infinite scrolling and image lazy loading in a react functional component. in the process, we’ll learn how to use some of react’s hooks and how to create custom hooks. read more… barry pollard wrote setting height and width on images is important again 17 min read no meows just yet march 9, 2020 — thanks to some recent changes in browsers, it’s now well worth setting width and height attributes on your images to prevent layout shifts and improve the experience of your site visitors. read more… andrew clarke wrote inspired design decisions: neville brody design cannot remain neutral 30 min read no meows just yet march 2, 2020 — how do we use blend modes to add depth to our designs, vertical text for impact and clipping paths to bring in character and energy to a design? in this article, we’ll explore just that. read more… vitaly friedman wrote front-end performance checklist 2020 [pdf, apple pages, ms word] 114 min read no meows just yet january 6, 2020 — let’s make 2020… fast! a front-end performance checklist (pdf/apple pages/ms word), with everything you need to know to create fast experiences on the web today. read more… suzanne scacca wrote build a seamless spreadsheet import experience with the help of flatfile.io 13 min read no meows just yet november 5, 2019 — in this article, we’re going to look at how flatfile helps you create a better import experience for your users, team and product. read more… suzanne scacca wrote speed up your website with webp 14 min read no meows just yet october 29, 2019 — images are a big part of the web and, yet, they can cause a lot of challenges for the user experience if not properly optimized or delivered. it’s been almost a decade since google introduced the world to webp as a solution to this problem. as more of our browsers, devices … read more… suzanne scacca wrote a guide to optimizing images for mobile 14 min read no meows just yet october 22, 2019 — you want to build a mobile website or pwa that converts visitors into leads or customers. but with google and consumers alike becoming ever more demanding when it comes to loading speeds, what more can you do? imagekit, a digital image optimization service, might have the … read more… andrew clarke wrote inspired design decisions: bea feitler, an unstoppable creative force 30 min read no meows just yet october 3, 2019 — in this fifth installment of inspired design decisions, andy clarke will teach you about bea feitler, who directed harper’s bazaar throughout the 1960s and has been described as “the pioneering female art director you’ve never heard of.” andy will teach you about feitler’s … read more… denys mishunov wrote frankenstein migration: framework-agnostic approach (part 2) 42 min read no meows just yet september 27, 2019 — before reading, you might want to first get back to part 1 because it will help you to follow along in this second part of the article. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top