skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category graphics articles and tutorials on designing in photoshop, indesign, illustrator and fireworks. free icons, textures, psds and other similar resources are featured here, as well as showcases of photography and video. this is also the place that hosts our regular desktop wallpaper calendar series. related sketch photoshop gravit designer figma tips to kick-start your design workflow by philippe hong 11 min read no meows just yet august 27, 2019 — in this article, let’s take a closer look at what figma really has to offer. here are 20 tips on how to work faster and better with this well-known and collaborative interface design tool. 354 more articles emiliano cicero wrote building a component library using figma 14 min read no meows just yet june 17, 2019 — figma has become a very popular tool for web and product designers, mainly because of its focus on design teams and team libraries. this article aims to help you avoid mistakes and assist you with the building of your own figma component library. read more… paul hanaoka wrote design at scale: one year with figma 15 min read no meows just yet april 15, 2019 — whether you’re a designer or developer, it can be challenging to stay current in this fast-paced world where it feels like new tools are product hunted on a weekly basis. if you’re working in a larger team, and especially if you’re working in an enterprise or b2b … read more… lachezar petkov wrote the new framer x: initial impressions 17 min read no meows just yet october 1, 2018 — the framer team recently changed course with the announcement of a new prototyping tool, framer x. lachezar petkov got to play with it during the beta phase and discusses its brand new features in this article. read more… isabel aracama wrote how to create a flat vector illustration in affinity designer 34 min read no meows just yet july 11, 2018 — as of today, july 11, affinity designer is also available for the ipad. this tutorial introduces some of its very user-friendly main tools and features and shows you how you can create a nice flat vector illustration of a volkswagen beetle. read more… cosima mielke wrote think less, embrace more: inspiring desktop wallpapers for february 2018 8 min read no meows just yet january 31, 2018 — unique and inspiring desktop wallpapers that celebrate the month of love, chinese new year, and the small things that make us happy. created by artists from across the globe and available with and without a calendar for february 2018. read more… cosima mielke wrote inspiring desktop wallpapers to welcome 2018 (january edition) 7 min read no meows just yet december 31, 2017 — to welcome 2018, artists and designers from across the globe created unique desktop wallpapers for you to indulge in — with and without a calendar for january. time to give your desktop a makeover and start the new year off freshly inspired. read more… cosima mielke wrote cheerful wallpapers to deck your december desktop (2017 edition) 12 min read no meows just yet november 30, 2017 — slowly but surely, 2017 is coming to an end. and what better way could there be to celebrate the last few weeks and the upcoming holiday season as with some cheerful wallpapers? read more… cosima mielke wrote cheerful wallpapers to deck your december desktop (2017 edition) 12 min read no meows just yet november 20, 2017 — slowly but surely, 2017 is coming to an end. time for some end-of-the-year wallpapers! read more… cosima mielke wrote inspiring desktop wallpapers to make november even more colorful (2017 edition) 11 min read no meows just yet october 31, 2017 — november is a rather gray month in many parts of the world, so what could be better as some colorful inspiration to start it off with the right foot? read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top