skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow category ios you want to ship your own ios app? we’ve got you covered! learn how to build for ios, sneak a peek into how others tackle the app design process, and gain insights into app store successes and failures — all right below. related android mobile using cscs scripting language for cross-platform development by vassili kaplan 12 min read no meows just yet january 29, 2020 — in this article, vassili kaplan explains how to use a scripting language to develop cross-platform mobile applications. 65 more articles saravanan v wrote performing ios animations on views with uikit and uiview 14 min read no meows just yet november 20, 2019 — this article aims to be a primer on ios animations exhaustively covering different ways of doing so. we start off by understanding the basics of animations, move to the core frameworks building a single example using the different methods offered and finally looking at ways … read more… axel kee wrote ios performance tricks to make your app feel more performant 15 min read no meows just yet february 5, 2019 — good performance is critical to delivering a good user experience, and ios users often have high expectations of their apps. a slow and unresponsive app might make users give up on using your app or, worse, leave a bad rating. read more… matthew soucoup wrote saving grandma’s recipes with xamarin.forms 15 min read no meows just yet october 11, 2018 — when creating mobile apps, you have to create and maintain the user interface and app logic for both ios and android separately: objective-c/swift with xcode and java with android studio. that can quickly turn into a pain. with xamarin.forms, however, the ui and app logic … read more… kaya thomas wrote preparing your app for ios 12 notifications 14 min read no meows just yet september 5, 2018 — with the launch of ios 12, there are several new notification features such as new authorization options, dynamic quick actions and user interaction within notifications. learn more about how to implement these features and if they are right for your app. read more… ahmed bouchefra wrote building mobile apps with capacitor and vue.js 12 min read no meows just yet july 2, 2018 — in this tutorial, you’ll learn how to use capacitor and cutting-edge web technologies such as vue.js and ionic 4 web components to build cross-platform mobile applications for android and ios. read more… mike bluestein wrote using google’s flutter for truly cross-platform mobile development 14 min read no meows just yet june 21, 2018 — flutter makes building cross-platform mobile applications a breeze. this article introduces flutter, compares it to other mobile development platforms, and shows how to use it to get started building apps. read more… lou franco wrote wwdc 2018 diary of an ios developer 19 min read no meows just yet june 14, 2018 — since 1987, the apple worldwide developers conference (wwdc) has been taking place annually and keeping ios developers on their toes. lou franco watched this year’s event and shares his notes and references in case you missed out. read more… lou franco wrote will sirikit’s intents fit your app? if so, here’s how to use them 25 min read no meows just yet april 11, 2018 — since last year, it has been possible to add siri support to an app if it fits into one of apple’s pre-defined use cases. find out if sirikit will work for you and how to use it. read more… nataliia kharchenko and illia chemolosov wrote mobile app with facial recognition feature: how to make it real 12 min read no meows just yet february 6, 2018 — given that facial recognition is gaining in popularity but the process of implementation is rather vague, nataliia and illia decided to share their experience of dealing with facial recognition algorithms and engines and things they’ve learned. read more… 1 2 3 ... next browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top