skip to main content research events publications commentary store support about cato blog our experts our centers facebook twitter crafting policy in an extraordinary crisis what should governments at the federal, state, and local level be doing to combat the spread of the coronavirus? cato institute president & ceo peter goettler has reached out to the white house, congress, and state‐level policymakers recommending they approach this pandemic head on, with calm and humility. cato offers these principles to help policymakers meet this challenge in a manner that saves human lives, preserves human dignity and gets our economy moving again as soon as the health crisis is under control. “a letter to policymakers,” by peter goettler “covid-19 response: critical guidelines for policymakers,” from the cato institute additional cato commentary on covid-19 does tying up air travel make us less safe? the 737 max crashes have made for sensational headlines at a time when air fatalities among major commercial airlines have become exceedingly rare. while the ongoing investigation may indicate that changes are warranted, federal authorities are likely to reflexively overregulate air safety. in the new issue of regulation, dennis l. weisman and peter van doren argue that overregulation can increase transportation fatalities as compliance costs drive up airfares and cause consumers to substitute higher‐risk highway travel for air travel. spring 2020 issue of regulation h‑2a visas for agriculture: the complex process for farmers to hire agricultural guest workers congress created the h‑2a program in 1986 to allow legal foreign workers to temporarily work for u.s. farmers who were unable to hire qualified americans. in a new brief, cato scholar david bier explains how the h‑2a visa program works, and suggests that congress could expand on this successful program by making h‑2a visas available to year‐round industries and streamlining its rules and regulations. “h‑2a visas for agriculture: the complex process for farmers to hire agricultural guest workers,” by david bier an end to our longest war? the trump administration has signed an interim deal with the taliban to withdraw its military forces from afghanistan. after nearly 20 years, $2 trillion, and an immense loss of life, this deal provides a glimmer of hope that the united states may soon be able to exit its longest war. “a full and expeditious withdrawal of all remaining u.s. military personnel from afghanistan,” says cato scholar christopher a. preble, “will allow the people there, who have been suffering under the scourge of war for over four decades, to fashion a durable political settlement, and allow americans to focus on urgent problems here at home.” “ending the war in afghanistan vs exiting it,” by john glaser “an end to our longest war?,” podcast featuring christopher a. preble, john glaser, and caleb o. brown “overcoming inertia: why it’s time to end the war in afghanistan,” by john glaser and john mueller featured commentary a letter to policymakers by peter goettler. we at the cato institute face this challenge with both trepidation and a firm belief in the creative capacities of human beings. we urge policymakers in the united states and around the world not to let fear and hubris lead them to prescribe cures that are worse than the disease. commentary covid-19 response: critical guidelines for policymakers policymakers must approach this pandemic head on, with calm and humility. blog keep emergency legislation narrow and focused by david boaz. lobbyists and activists are trying to slip unrelated measures into the coronavirus emergency bill. congress should resist those pressures and keep the bill narrow and focused. commentary a war of words with china helps nobody by doug bandow. foreign policy. this is no time for either beijing or washington to point fingers. blog government policy and the covid-19 pandemic by jeffrey miron and erin partin. the covid-19 outbreak is serious and scary. but it should not become an excuse to ignore costs relative to benefits when thinking about government policy. commentary liberty and the coronavirus: not an either/or proposition by ted galen carpenter. the american conservative. governments have always exploited crises to expand their powers. commentary big government has hurt our ability to deal with this crisis by michael d. tanner. national review (online). but now it’s time for the government to get involved. multimedia podcasts cato audio videos more download episode | listen on: spotify • apple podcasts • google play evaluating federal reserve moves amid coronavirus outbreak featuring george selgin and caleb o. brown. march 27, 2020. kerry mcdonald discusses homeschooling during covid-19 on abc7 la featuring kerry mcdonald. march 27, 2020. homeschooling during covid-19 featuring cato institute and kerry mcdonald. march 26, 2020. emergency powers and civil liberties during a pandemic featuring patrick g. eddington and caleb o. brown. march 26, 2020. more multimedia research areas constitution, the law, and the courts covid-19 criminal law and civil liberties education and child policy energy and environment finance, banking & monetary policy foreign policy and national security government and politics health care international economics, development & immigration political philosophy poverty & social welfare regulatory studies social security tax and budget policy telecom, internet & information policy trade policy upcoming events past events conference crisis: housing and homelessness in california april 17, 2020 9:00 am to 3:45 pm pdt special event milton friedman prize for advancing liberty and the 32nd annual benefactor summit may 20, 2020 to may 21, 2020, new york city for more information, please contact sophia coyne‐kosnak at (202) 216‑1490 / sck@cato.org. conference abandon ship: 10 decades of jones act failure june 4, 2020 cato institute, 1000 massachusetts ave, nw, washington, dc conference sphere summit: teaching civic culture together july 12, 2020 3:30 pm edt to july 16, 2020 10:00 am edt cato institute, 1000 massachusetts ave, nw, washington, dc more upcoming events sign up receive periodic updates on cato research, events, and publications. see our full list of email newsletters social media facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss also from cato internships and student programs project sphere libertarianism.org humanprogress.org downsizinggovernment.org cato unbound unlawful shield freedom in the 50 states overlawyered elcato.org alt-m cato institute 1000 massachusetts ave, nw washington, dc 20001-5403 phone (202) 842 0200 privacy policy contact us media contact