editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. editors' blog news muckraker cafe podcast send comments and tips ccpa notice tpm and our advertising partners collect personal information (such as the cookies stored on your browser, the advertising identifier on your mobile device, or the ip address of your device) when you visit our site. we, and our partners, use this information to tailor and deliver ads to you on our site, or to help tailor ads to you when you visit other sites. for example, we might use these cookies or device identifiers to limit how many times you see a specific advertisement. the ad networks we work with may use cookies to show you ads based on products you have viewed before on other websites. to be clear, we do not and will not sell or share personally identifiable information such as but not limited to your name, email address or other such information submitted to us for membership purposes. to learn more about the information we collect and use for advertising purposes, please see our [link]privacy policy. if you do not wish for us or our partners to sell your personal information to third parties for advertising purposes, select the applicable control from the “do not sell my personal information” link provided. note that although we will not sell your personal information after you click that button, we will continue to share some personal information with our partners (who will function as our service providers in such instance) to help us perform advertising- related functions such as, but not limited to, measuring the effectiveness of our ads, managing how many times you may see an ad, reporting on the performance of our ads, ensuring services are working correctly and securely, providing aggregate statistics and analytics, improving when and where you may see ads and/or reducing ad fraud. if you access this site from other devices or browsers, visit the link below from those devices or browsers to ensure your choice applies to the data collected when you use those devices or browsers. additionally, although clicking the “do not sell my personal information” link will opt you out of the sale of your personal information for advertising purposes, it will not opt you out of the use of previously collected and sold personal information (except for personal information sold within 90 days prior to your exercising your right to opt out) or all interest-based advertising. if you would like more information about how to opt out of interest-based advertising in desktop and mobile browsers on a particular device, please visit http://optout.aboutads.info/#/ and http://optout.networkadvertising.org/#.f you may download the appchoices app at http://www.aboutads.info/appchoices to opt out in connection with mobile apps, or use the platform controls on your mobile device to opt out. do not sell my personal data masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy