got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos music minute featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... celebrate mariah carey’s 50th birthday with her 5 most iconic music videos! home › mariah carey › celebrate mariah carey’s 50th birthday with her 5 most iconic music videos! all hail queen mimi! amidst the all of this coronavirus craziness, we can’t forget to celebrate a very special occasion: the 50th birthday of the elusive chanteuse herself, mariah carey. in the past year, she was honored as icon of the year at the billboard music awards, reigned supreme as queen of the meme, and made history as her classic all i want for christmas hit #1 for the first time 25 years after its original release. related: ariana grande, katy perry & more celebrate anniversary of ‘all i want for christmas’ not too shabby at all — and we expect her to keep giving us life in the coming year, as well! throughout her illustrious career, the superstar has blessed us with many moments that were glamorous, shady, dramatic, diva-licious, and always iconic. still, we don’t just love her for her amazing personality — lolz! in honor of the hitmaker’s 50th, we’re bringing it back to where it all began: the music. we’ve picked 5 of mariah’s most iconic music videos to revisit. ch-ch-check out our list (below): always be my baby (1995) fantasy (1995) honey (1997) heartbreaker (1999) all i want for christmas is you (1994) what do u think, perezcious readers?! did we miss your fave? sound off with your picks in the comments (below)! [image via youtube/mariah carey] related posts kobe bryant’s death: more celeb tributes come pouring in for the late nba star how celebs spent new year’s eve! ariana grande, katy perry, kim kardashian & more pay tribute to mariah carey in ‘all i want for christmas’ anniversary video — watch! mariah carey shines in new ‘all i want for christmas is you’ music video with two special guests!! click click click next article next article mar 27, 2020 11:09am pdt share this categories mariah carey music minute nostalgia view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy