got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos celeb kidz featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... home › celeb kidz 'i spent 10 years preaching no screens' nicole richie talks at-home schooling during coronavirus pandemic 03/27/20 1:57pm pdt click for details lol not sorry, mom! mason disick goes live on tiktok after kourtney kardashian kicks him off instagram 03/27/20 7:23am pdt click for details no mercy! kim kardashian asks for kid-friendly quarantine tips -- but gets epicly trolled by taylor swift fans! 03/26/20 9:54am pdt click for details momma's got it covered! kelly clarkson had to use her son's potty amid plumbing issues while social distancing! 03/23/20 10:40am pdt click for details can you relate? jennifer garner's parents won't stay home to self-isolate amid coronavirus & it's driving her crazy! 03/20/20 7:33am pdt click for details family over everything vanessa bryant wants kobe's trust amended to include youngest daughter capri 03/20/20 6:59am pdt click for details 'i'm truly sorry' tori spelling apologizes for 8-year-old daughter's controversial 'mcquisha' dress-up pic 03/19/20 10:28am pdt click for details tom hanks' hot son returns! chet hanks updates fans on his parents following their coronavirus diagnosis! 03/17/20 4:39pm pdt click for details hand sanitizer, pillows, & plenty of comfort! north west made the cutest quarantine house for her kim kardashian and kanye west dolls! 03/14/20 2:30pm pdt click for details 'they're not tripping' tom hanks' wife rita wilson pokes fun at their coronavirus diagnosis as their sons update fans! 03/12/20 7:07am pdt click for details click for more news hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy