u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost entertainment. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition celebrity meghan markle kim kardashian rihanna queer eye country singer joe diffie tests positive for covid-19 "we want to remind the public and all my fans to be vigilant, cautious and careful during this pandemic,” the singer said in a statement. by kristin m. hall, ap bindi irwin and chandler powell got married without wedding guests “this was a very difficult decision but important to keep everyone safe,” said bindi irwin, wildlife conservationist and daughter of the late steve irwin. by kelsey borresen in 'more,' indie pop singer kris kelly wrestles with 7 deadly sins personified the video, from the 2019 album "runaways," is about those who escape themselves "through drugs, alcohol, boys [and] sex,” he said. by curtis m. wong trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad 'contagion' stars reunite for covid-19 psa winslet says in her psa: “wash your hands like your life depends on it. because right now, in particular, it just might.” by ap bob dylan responds to coronavirus with song about jfk assassination the new tune, "murder most foul," also references the beatles, stevie nicks, nat king cole, queen and so many more artists. by david moye newsletter sign up entertainment don't miss a beat. your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. blake shelton is rocking a 'quarantine mullet' as a 'symbol of hope' now the country singer-songwriter's new 'do is drawing comparisons to joe exotic, the subject of netflix's "tiger king." by curtis m. wong anthony fauci hits younger people with a stark coronavirus reality check the infectious diseases expert dispelled a key myth about the covid-19 infections. by ed mazza prince george, prince louis and princess charlotte made the cutest video for health workers the video was shared on prince william and kate middleton's instagram page. by carly ledbetter evangeline lilly apologizes for previously dismissing covid-19 warnings the actress said on instagram that she was sorry for remarks she made about the coronavirus that were "dismissive, arrogant and cryptic." by david moye with 'lady like,' ingrid andress delivers music befitting our self-isolating times the country artist follows up her 2019 hit "more hearts than mine" with an album reflecting the stages of heartbreak — and the confines of gender norms. by curtis m. wong meghan markle, prince harry officially move to los angeles: report the duke and duchess of sussex moved back to meghan's hometown, according to people. by carly ledbetter harlem globetrotters legend curly neal dead at 77 neal played for the globetrotters from 1963-85, appearing in more than 6,000 games in 97 countries. by john marshall, ap prince albert responds to claims he gave prince charles coronavirus the leader of monaco and prince of wales attended the same event on march 10. by carly ledbetter pink uses quarantine time to give herself a haircut after drinking the pop superstar jokingly compared herself with alyssa milano and charlize theron after revealing a fresh, if amateur-looking, buzz cut. by curtis m. wong jussie smollett marks 'quarantine day 421' with cryptic instagram video the former "empire" star sang a stevie wonder hit while alluding to the date he claimed to have been attacked in a racist and anti-lgbtq hate crime. by curtis m. wong kim kardashian asks fans for quarantine tips and it goes south quickly never underestimate the wrath of angry taylor swift fans. by cole delbyck courteney cox is watching 'friends' for the first time, remembers nothing cox purchased all of the seasons herself on amazon prime. by carly ledbetter meghan markle is teaming up with disney for her first post-royal project you can stream the duchess of sussex's new movie on april 3. by carly ledbetter uganda's pop star politician releases the perfect anthem for coronavirus bobi wine's tune is catchy and filled with sound advice for the age of covid-19. by ed mazza michael rapaport drops 24 f-bombs in angry rant against coronavirus revelers "this nice guy s**t? it’s done," the actor warned in his own take on a coronavirus pandemic psa. by ed mazza newsletter sign up entertainment don't miss a beat. your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost entertainment. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.