home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. we and the color home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style home photography central park infrared/aerochrome photos photography central park infrared/aerochrome photos reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email infrared nyc, a series of infrared/aerochrome photos by paolo pettigiani showing the famous central park in a ‘slightly’ different view. this is already our fifth feature of one of paolo pettigiani‘s versatile projects. the italian graphic designer and photographer has graduated in visual design and communication from politecnico di torino. today he works as freelance designer and photographer on a wide range of projects with clients from around the world. in addition to the commissioned work, he likes to work on personal projects – at least whenever he finds the time. read more about his recent photo series ‘infrared nyc’ below the first image. infrared new york city, a photo series by paolo pettigiani. his recent series of infrared/aerochrome photographs shows manhattan’s popular central park in a quite different point of view. armed with a professional equipment consisting of a canon 24-70mm f/2.8, canon eos 5d mark iii, and a canon 35mm 1.4, paolo pettigiani took several shots of different spots. he captured the peaceful atmosphere in the park with new york’s skyline behind. but in contrast to conventional pictures, each photo shows the famous central park in dreamlike infrared/aerochrome colors. his purpose was to highlight the majesty of nature with the distinctive contrast to the skyscrapers behind. check out some examples below. more of the infrared nyc series can be found in paolo pettigiani’s portfolio on behance. you can also follow him on instagram or check out more of his professional work on his website. enjoy it! the graphic designer and photographer has taken numerous infrared/aerochrome photos of the famous central park. a small path between overgrown trees seems to lead directly to manhattan’s skyscrapers. the infrared effect turns the park into a surreal setting. infrared nyc is a series that shows the famous central park in otherworldly pink and blue colors. no ratings yet. please rate this article. rate here: tags aerochrome aerochrome photos central park infrared infrared photography new york city nyc paolo pettigiani reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email dirk petzold of course, we are on instagram: @weandthecolor :) related articlesmore from author photography infrared photoshop action: cherry fields photography infrared photoshop actions photography aerochrome/infrared photography by zak van biljon photography experimental landscape photography by zakaria wakrim photography atmospheric photography by david keochkerian leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. current ye@r * leave this field empty email by continuing, you accept the privacy policy editor picks 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 top graphic designers on instagram to follow for creative inspiration popular posts central park infrared/aerochrome photos i am an actor by franck bohbot lane coder – underwater photography popular category design4038 graphic design2565 recommendations1479 branding1427 illustration1384 fonts895 photography892 art880 templates548 about us we and the color is a web magazine for your daily art and design inspiration. we feature outstanding projects of various creative fields. in addition, you can find trendy graphics, templates, and fonts for download. read more here. contact us: meandyou@weandthecolor.com follow us legal information privacy advertisement © copyright 2019 we and the color – all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. by continuing, you are agreeing to our terms of use.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled