home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads the soul of an octopus: how one of earth’s most alien creatures illuminates the wonders of consciousness what makes the octopus and its consciousness so extraordinary the otherworldly beauty of jellyfish: how ernst haeckel turned personal tragedy into transcendent art in the world’s first encyclopedia of medusae labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks cephalopod atlas: stunning, sensual illustrations from the world’s first encyclopedia of octopus and squid wonders from the ocean depths ravishing otherworldly wonders of the cosmos beneath the surface, from the first expedition to prove that life exists in the depths. by maria popova “while stroking an octopus, it is easy to fall into reverie,” naturalist sy montgomery wrote in her breathtaking inquiry into how earth’s most alien creature illuminates the wonders of consciousness. “to share such a moment of deep tranquility with another being, especially one as different from us as the octopus, is a humbling privilege… an uplink to universal consciousness.” a century before her, and decades before the great marine biologist, conservation pioneer, and poetic science writer rachel carson invited the popular imagination undersea for the first time through the valve of science — the fathoming that gave rise to the environmental movement — the german marine biologist carl chun (october 1, 1852–april 11, 1914) led a pioneering deep-sea expedition that upended, with the most spectacular findings, the long-held belief that life could not exist below 300 fathoms. velodona togata. available as a print. velodona togata. available as a print. in the summer of 1898, chun and his team embarked on what became known as the valdivia expedition, plunging below 500 fathoms — depths the british-led challenger expedition, which had laid the foundation of oceanography sixteen years earlier, had failed to reach — and emerging eight months later with marvels beyond the wildest human imaginings and the most daring scientific speculations, creatures too strange and otherworldly even for jules verne’s fantastical worlds: cosmoses of bioluminescent fish, swimmers navigating the inky blackness of the depths with senses other than sight, fleshy pulsating supernovae of crimson, gilled and frilled and tentacled wonders that seemed to belong to the “other spheres” whitman imagined when he contemplated “the world below the brine.” polypus levishoyle, male. available as a print. chun spent the remainder of his life bringing the world’s awed attention to the unfathomed wonderland he had discovered, in twenty-four rigorously detailed volumes, some featuring arresting, almost erotic illustrations by the artist friedrich wilhelm winter — none more arresting than those found in the 1910 treasure cephalopod atlas, a surviving copy of which has been digitized by the wonderful biodiversity library. vampyroteothis infernalis. available as a print. among winter’s stunning, sensual illustrations — which i have restored and made available as prints, benefiting greenpeace and their inspired endeavor to protect the increasingly human-savaged habitats of these living wonders — is one of a creature chun was the first to describe: a small, black cephalopod with branchial hearts and a light gonad that appears to shine just above its stomach. he named it vampyroteuthis infernalis, “vampire squid from hell.” abraliopsis morisii. available as a print. abraliopsis morisii vér. male and juvenile stages. available as a print. abraliopsis morisii vér. available as a print. pyroteuthis margaritifera vér. available as a print. bolitaena diaphana steenstr. available as a print. rossia mastigophora. available as a print. organs of pterygioteuthis. available as a print. thaumatolampas diadema. available as a print. organs of thaumatolampas diadema. available as a print. calitheuthis, histiotheuthis. available as a print. histiotheuthis, calitheuthis. available as a print. mastigoteuthis glaukopis. available as a print. chiroteuthis. available as a print. cirruthauma murrayi chun. available as a print. opisthoteuthis verrill. available as a print. opisthoteuthis verrill. available as a print. benthoteuthis megalops verrill. available as a print. eledonella pygmaea verr. available as a print. complement with an animated primer on what makes the octopus consciousness so extraordinary and a little boy’s disarming case against eating octopuses (i’ll take the psa opportunity here to remind folks that “octopus” comes from greek, not from latin; the correct plural is therefore “octopuses,” not “octopi”), then revisit british artist sarah stone’s trailblazing natural history paintings of exotic and endangered species from the previous century, french artist paul sougy’s vintage scientific diagrams of plants and animals from the following century, and sy montgomery’s lovely contemporary meditation on how to be a good creature. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published march 3, 2020 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2020/03/03/cephalopod-atlas-carl-chun/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under artcultureillustrationscience view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.