skip to primary navigation skip to content copyblogger start here blog podcast training certified writers my account login my.copyblogger search type in your keyword and press enter to search copyblogger.com:close search copyblogger... copyblogger certified content marketers demand for qualified digital content creators is at an all-time high. and yet, clients are constantly disappointed by applicants with mediocre writing portfolios and a lack of marketing savvy. our certified content marketer designation solves the quality problem. only writers who have solid fundamental writing skills, an engaging voice, and a demonstrated understanding of content marketing strategy are added to our list of recommended writers. writers: interested in becoming a certified content marketer? click here for details. hire one of our certified content marketers: listed below are the writers who have earned our “certified content marketer” designation. that means they’ve completed advanced coursework, as well as passing a detailed review of their work by a member of the copyblogger editorial team. use the search field and category filters below to look for specific areas of expertise. writers listed as “master level” achieved almost-perfect scores during the certification review process. writers listed as “limited availability” aren’t taking new clients right now. trouble using this page? click to let us know. sort by name sort by category'; b2bcase studiescontent curationcontent marketingcontent strategycopywritingebook writingebookseditingemail marketingghostwriting or white label copyinbound marketinglanding page writinglead generationlimited availabilitymaster levelpublic relationsresults analysissales copysocial media marketingspeechwritingwebinar or video writingwhite paper writing reset filters kate addicott drow, inc. i like to keep things clear and simple. let's talk about how to tell your story and make your brand more memorable. specialties include: brand strategy and voice, website and email marketing copy for lead generation and conversion, ux content strategy and product copy that connects with people by addressing their wants and needs. (also: tech clients are my favorite!) master level limited availability through march 2018 drow, inc. kate@drowinc.com twitter linkedin lacy boggs the content direction agency stop blogging into the void and start creating content that leads to more sales. i specialize in content marketing strategy focused on generating more leads and sales for online business owners of all stripes. once you have the strategy in place, my team and i can implement as much as you want us to take over including regular blog posts, emails, social media updates and more - all in your voice, so that your audience need never know. visit http://lacyboggs.com/undercover for more information and to book a free discovery call. the content direction agency hilacy@lacyboggs.com facebook alaura weaver wordweaver freelance as a go-to content marketing strategist for b2b saas statups, i help you pinpoint your target customer's persona and story, define the role your brand plays within that narrative, and come up with a roadmap for how to inspire your customer to take action. what you'll get: powerful landing pages, delightful onboarding email sequences, and relationship-driven inbound content that turns leads into devoted fans. wanna hear more? let's connect. master level wordweaver freelance alaura@wordweaverfreelance.com facebook twitter linkedin amy butcher amy butcher i help nonprofits, small businesses and authors who want to change the world craft killer content so that they can get more donations and more sales. my content services include web writing, content marketing and book editing. amy butcher amybcontent@gmail.com twitter linkedin maggie patterson scoop studios i'm a specialist in case studies and helping you tell your customer stories. with over 15 years of experience in interviewing and crafting compelling customer case studies, when you work with me, you'll get high-quality content to convert leads and close sales. i work primarily with small to mid-sized b2b companies across multiple industries. in addition to case studies, i offer a full range of content marketing services including blogging, ghostwriting, whitepapers, email marketing and more. you can learn more at www.scoopstudios.co and i'd love to chat with you about your content marketing needs. master level scoop studios maggie@scoopindustries.com linkedin amy rogers, md amy rogers md a physician turned medical writer, i work with medical practices whose physicians understand the value of extending the short time they have with patients. they extend that connection through year-round, evidence-based medical content via websites, podcasts, newsletters, and other formats. i also work with small businesses whose clients benefit from healthcare related content. the implications of client health are important across many industries, and insightful entrepreneurs recognize the value of providing health content in an evidence-based context. amy rogers md amy@amyrogersmd.com twitter google+ linkedin jeff yeager storyteller beyond simple wordsmithing, i focus on content marketing and customer journey mapping through relevant storytelling. with more than a decade of marketing experience (5 years agency) i'm capable and flexible enough to cover a wide range of subject matters, styles (b2b and b2c), and industries including: healthcare, publishing, it, and more. my experience has given me the chance to work in various marketing channels and mediums like: print and digital, marketing websites, brochures, blogs, social media campaigns, email marketing, tradeshow collateral, video scripts, landing pages, and more. ready to help you tell your story and connect with your audience. i look forward to hearing from you! jeff yeager jeffy2727@yahoo.com twitter linkedin nicole verardi nicole verardi i love to give people a reason to cheer through storytelling and strong calls to action. a marketer with 10+ years in the non-profit and tech industries, i can help you build and engage your community. limited availability linkedin jelle annaars supercontent i'm a content marketing coach. i coach content professionals to excellence, both employees within a business and consultants that look to develop their content marketing business. next to that, i help businesses write their content marketing strategy. limited availability supercontent jelle@supercontent.pro twitter google+ linkedin yael grauer yael writes making challenging content accessible. yael writes about world-changing tech startups, strategic content marketing, and cutting-edge fitness and nutrition research. she also works as an editor for publishers, agencies, and brands. master level yael writes yael@yaelwrites.com twitter google+ linkedin jennifer logullo corecubed website content and blogs for the home care/aging care/elderly care market. corecubed info@corecubed.com facebook twitter google+ linkedin celeste allen cba content charting meaningful audience journeys one business at a time. from marketing plans to blog posts, newsletters to copywriting, i create engaging content that connects companies with their unique audience, increasing brand awareness, site traffic and sales. businesses i have worked with are in the real estate, tech, wildlife and nature, art, fashion and e-commerce sectors. the best thing about content marketing, however, is that it holds a solution for every business in every industry. let's find your one-of-a-kind solution together and chart an enchanting journey for your audience. cba content celeste@cbacontent.com facebook twitter linkedin daniel stouffer daniel stouffer "awai verified" your “swiss army knife” for marketing strategy, product creation & launch, agile development, and direct-response copywriting. i specialize in interactive training, email autoresponders, landing & sales pages, vsl videos, ebooks, web copy, and articles. i'm your certified trainer, creator, and copy coach. daniel stouffer daniel.stouffer@gmail.com sean flanagan sean flanagan struggling to find the right words to generate leads and sales? i can help you connect with your target audience and get them to understand why they need your offers. i specialize in facebook advertising and copywriting for coaches and businesses in health/fitness/wellness (both b2b and b2c). more conversions at lower costs - fewer headaches from tasks you'd rather not be doing in the first place. services include (but are not limited to): all-inclusive facebook advertising services (so you never have to log into your ads manager... unless you really want to) opt-in and sales page writing email sequence strategy and writing reviews and edits for existing page/campaigns preselling content strategy basic and intermediate tasks inside clickfunnels (such as creating opt-in pages or setting up split tests) interested? send me a private message on facebook (or email me at the address below.) seanflanaganwellness@gmail.com facebook andrew dietz creative influence i deliver sales-enabled content that grows relationships and revenue for b2b companies. my clients sell complicated stuff that requires long, non-linear sales cycles. content shortens the cycle. first, i help you target better prospects with crisper stories that showcase your claim-to-fame. next, i create content campaigns that generate more of the right conversations with more of the right executives. then, i help you sell without selling: equipping you with content tools that open relationships and close deals. contact me with a challenge and fifteen minutes by phone. i’ll demonstrate how sales-enabled content can make the difference for you. creative influence andrew@creativeinfluence.io twitter linkedin danny margulies high conversion sales writing as a sales writer, i work with one single, solitary mission: to prompt your prospects and customers to sign up for your email list and buy your product or service. to that end, i focus on direct response copywriting, backed up with copyblogger certified content marketing strategy to help drive traffic and increase your authority. limited availability danny margulies pat menchan novumarketing want more clients? i help business services and professional services firms get more sales with engaging content that positions them as industry thought leaders. i cut my teeth in the client service divisions of merrill lynch, mckinsey, and egon zehnder. with a deep understanding of service businesses, i craft strategy and content that connects with their clients’ needs and desires. contact me today for a no-obligation strategy session, and let’s create a blueprint for your marketing success. organizations: american writers & artists, professional writers alliance, nawbo, hubspot inbound certified specialty: b2b service providers (including accounting, consulting, financial services, law, technology) novumarketing pat@novumarketing.com facebook twitter google+ linkedin mel wicks the craft of copywriting i'm a seasoned copywriter and marketing strategist who puts the "wow-sign-me-up!' spark into your online and print communications, so you can grow your business the way you'd always imagined. but here's the thing: knowing how to write compelling content isn't enough. knowing who you are trying to connect with, why they should care, and how your business solves their problems. . .that's the secret sauce. helping you find the answers to these questions is where i come in. crafting the words to attract and convert strangers into loyal customers, is what i do. i'm your marketing problem solver. the craft of copywriting mel@thecraftofcopywriting.com twitter google+ ryan erisman local blogger i've been building local blogs since 2010 and was even invited by brian clark himself to be on a panel about local blogging at copyblogger's very first conference (agentpress) back in 2013. in addition to writing for my own sites, i also write local content for a variety of clients around the web. local blogger linkedin lauren pawell bixa media i work with entrepreneurs to create killer website and email marketing copy. the goal? content that converts website visitors into leads, leads into customers, and customers into repeat customers. bixa media lauren@bixamedia.com facebook twitter samantha schlemm samantha schlemm you know your brand, i know how to build and maintain your brand voice. as a copywriter, i can help you create and execute brand guidelines, uncover the right strategy, and tell your "why" in a relatable way through: blog posts emails videos print and digital ads promotional materials website copy by understanding your target audience's psychology, we can create intentional and authentic content that attracts and engages them on a more emotional level, generating leads, and ultimately converting prospects into customers. you have a story, let's tell it together. samantha schlemm samanthaschlemmwrites@gmail.com twitter linkedin christie osborne mountainside media i help small and local businesses in the wedding and travel industries attract and book their ideal clients. i specialize in authentic content creation, millennial marketing, lead generation and nurturing, social media marketing and campaign set up and roi tracking. mountainside media christie@mountainside-media.com facebook twitter steven sparling two forward communications writing that clarifies your brand story, positions you in your market and communicates your unique brand attributes, to your target market, through storytelling and content marketing (that people actually want to read). based in the uk. limited availability two forward communications mail@twoforwardcommunications.com twitter google+ jen theuriet content by jen have you gotten off track from reaching your business goals because you can't seem to reach your customers? you've honed your skills to isolate muscle groups or design the perfect legging to go from the gym to brunch. my craft is to write just the right message to reach the health, fitness, and lifestyle consumer. i am a results-oriented professional dedicated to putting my journalism training and sales success to work for you with freelance writing and content marketing. i’m an expert at both content creation and curation, and i excel in building and implementing long-term communication strategy. i have a strong track record in sales and marketing and experience leading and mentoring large, diverse teams. let me put my strong communication skills to work to help you reach new audiences. content by jen jtheuriet@contentbyjen.com twitter linkedin alison lueders great green content helping you tell compelling stories about the "green" or "sustainable" business space. educate your customers through blog posts, web pages, ebooks and more. i've won awards for clients, and boosted event attendance. what can i do for you? great green content alison@alueders.com twitter linkedin natalia gomez green studio mx hello! i am a content marketing strategist passionate about helping people and the planet! i'll tell your brand story incorporating your values so that your voice can be heard sending a positive message in an annual blog post strategy, e-books, or corporate reports! every piece of content i create is seo friendly and designed to get shares, downloads or leads! i focus on sustainability, minimalism, healthy lifestyle, ethical fashion, clean beauty, and eco travel. i have the corporate mindset to write compelling content apart from my main niche and can also cover advance digital marketing, financial marketing, and social media topics. i can also create content for you in spanish if needed. check out my digital agency for all my content marketing services: https://www.green-studiomx.com/ i am also the blogger behind one of the top sustainable fashion blogs: https://marmagcreation.com/ green studio mx greenstudiomex@gmail.com linkedin louisa chan your trusted advisor trainers, coaches and teachers who want to venture into offering online courses need to be informed of content marketing strategies suitable for their unique situations. louisa is an experienced international trainer and certified coach who uses content marketing to build a strong online presence that generate leads for her offline training seminars and video-based online courses. she can also help you convert your curriculum into video-based training for on-demand elearning. your trusted advisor louisa@louisachan.com twitter google+ linkedin greg reid scribblingmadly i write engaging, easy-to-read content for saas providers and marketing pros who don't have the time or interest to create effective blogs, lead magnets and ebooks. my content builds authority, drives action and grows audiences. it speaks to your ideal customer in a confident voice, a conversational tone and with a promise that reading it is time well spent. there is immense persuasive power in small words, short sentences and concise copy blocks. let's use that power to satisfy your audience's wants and needs. and let's use it to grow your business. scribblingmadly.com greg@scribblingmadly.com rose crompton rose crompton let’s turn your mish-mashed words into useful business content that defines your differences. whether you’re a b2c, a b2b or searching for a professional copywriter at the eleventh deadline hour, i can deliver: website copy that’s makes you stand out. blog articles that move people to action. emails that build relationships (and lead to sales). companies use my inquisitive journo skills, copywriting expertise and seo know-how because they want to say “see ya” to run-of-the-mill content. hire me for on-brand, personality-driven copy you’re proud of. and enjoy an easier business life. interested? see my portfolio and client feedback at rosemcrompton.com rose crompton rosemcrompton@gmail.com linkedin jen baxter jen baxter i specialize in copywriting and content strategy for companies that market to photographers. we'll create a strategy and a library of content that improves customer engagement, retention and sparks creativity. i help companies develop a brand voice that resonates with their customers through: blogs that inspire people to take action case studies that profile how customers use your product or service q&a style interviews with influencers in your industry about pages that tell your story succinctly website copy that speaks directly to your ideal client jen baxter instagram @jenbaxtersf baxterjen@gmail.com linkedin trudi roth it’s the trustory i create killer, eyeball-grabbing digital content that converts passive bystanders into active, engaged fans (read: customers) of your business or brand. from site copy to blogs, video (i write and produce) and social media strategy, i’ll help you tell your unique story in the most awesome and authentic way possible. it’s the trustory linkedin kristi hines kristi hines kristi hines is a freelance writer, ghostwriter, and copywriter in phoenix, az who develops blog content, ebooks, emails, lead magnets, and website copy for marketing agencies, b2b, and saas. her writing has appeared in over 50 online publications including content marketing institute, moz, salesforce, search engine journal, search engine watch, and social media examiner. in addition to her previous work experience in digital marketing, she is a certified specialist in content marketing, customer acquisition, google analytics, inbound marketing, search engine marketing, and social media marketing. kristi hines info@kristihines.com twitter google+ linkedin mirella deboni mirella deboni i'm an international best-selling author on amazon in 5 categories, business & book writing coach & content marketer for serviced-based businesses. i coach people just like you to write an expert best-selling book, become a published author and create persuasive content designed to sell your services online. see my website below for more information on how i can help you. mirelle deboni author profile mirella@mirelladeboni.com facebook linkedin amelia ostroff words that fly work with a down-to-earth copywriter who will give your marketing a lift. whether you need help with a standalone project or an integrated marketing campaign, i'll provide you with creative solutions, engaging storytelling, and persuasive copy that connect with your customer. my award-winning work in advertising, design, and direct response is steeped in the strategic discipline of a marketing management degree from syracuse university. i offer a unique blend of experience to help you stand out in a highly competitive world. now, what can i do to elevate your brand or business? words that fly ameliaostroff@gmail.com twitter google+ linkedin melissa suzuno melissa suzuno i’m a professional writer, editor, and content marketer. i love to help people and companies tell their stories in clear, compelling, and creative ways. i tend to focus on the intersection of people and work, and the majority of my clients are b2b hr tech companies. but even if that doesn’t sound like you, feel free to get in touch if you like my style and we can see if working together would be a good fit. master level melissa suzuno melissa@melissasuzuno.com twitter linkedin aaron wrixon aaron wrixon aaron wrixon is a b2b and b2c web content strategist and copywriter working with agencies and their clients. wrixon delivers content marketing strategy, website copywriting, conversion copy, email marketing, seo copywriting and more. with content services and content strategy from aaron, businesses define their category of one, build market-leading brands, command higher prices, and make the competition irrelevant. aaron does more than simply write words on a page-he delivers measurable results. aaron wrixon aaron@wrixon.com facebook twitter linkedin beth hayden beth hayden if you’re looking for conversational, persuasive content that converts, i can help. my specialties are email marketing campaigns, sales pages, and ghostblogging, but i can help with a large variety of content and copywriting projects. i’ve been a freelance writer and content marketing coach since 2008, and i’m a regular contributor to copyblogger.com. drop me a line at the email address below to set up a time to discuss your project. master level beth hayden beth@bethhayden.com hans hageman hans hageman i provide content marketing, copywriting, and storytelling services for small businesses that have the triple bottom line of people, planet, and profit. my specialties are food production, wellness/fitness, sustainability, and bioproducts. hans hageman hans@hanshageman.com twitter linkedin leigh green leigh green copywriting realtors & real estate developers use marketing content to: increase visibility establish authority & credibility improve seo generate leads convert leads to sales i provide compelling, on-brand original copy and content marketing strategy for realtors and developers at all stages of the game. website copy | email marketing | blogs | social media | video scripts | listing descriptions + photos leigh green copywriting leighgreencopywriting@gmail.com facebook twitter linkedin austin mullins conversion creatives are you a saas company or online publisher looking to grow your traffic, leads, and revenue? if so, you’ll need a partner that has a clear process and proven track record of driving positive outcomes with world-class content marketing & seo. that’s where conversion creatives comes in. drop us a line when you’re ready to work with a growth agency that understands your industry and customer base. conversion creatives austin@conversioncreatives.com linkedin sharlyn lauby hr bartender human resources content marketing, including white papers, case studies, ebooks, webinars and guest posts. focused on strategic campaigns to increase engagement and lead generation. hr content marketer and publisher of the blog hr bartender. master level hr bartender cheers@hrbartender.com facebook twitter linkedin megan williams, mba locutus health communications i have created content and contributed to strategy for companies including samsung, cintas, and business solutions magazine. i create case studies, thought leadership articles, blogs and social posts, as well as newsletters and other forms of online content. i have a practical background in startup healthcare, an mba, and a deep understanding of the importance of online content in modern communication environments. specialty: b2b healthcare locutus health communications growth@locutushealth.com linkedin cindy dashnaw cindy dashnaw your nonprofit’s audience wants to change a corner of the world. your content must persuade them to do so through you. as a skilled copywriter with an innate talent for interviewing and research, i can craft stories and messaging that reach people at their core and prompt them to act. i’ve worked almost exclusively for or with nonprofits for many years, crafting web copy, fundraising materials, progressive emails, feature articles, social ad copy, white papers and special reports. i'm dependable and easy to work with. let’s talk about creating effective content for all your channels. cindy dashnaw cdashnaw@indyice.net linkedin lindsay hotmire lindsay hotmire i empower women to find and use their voice. i specialize in brand strategy and conversion copywriting for women entrepreneurs (e.g., email marketing, launch copy, web and landing page copy, course content, etc.), and i help women sort through their passions to find their paths. lindsay hotmire lhotmire@gmail.com twitter linkedin susan patterson fresh mix communications you bring the ingredients, i'll make the meal. you and your team have expertise and ideas. all you need is someone who knows how to organize that knowledge and turn it into good content: blogs, emails, newsletters, ebooks, tutorials, and website copy. i help with content planning and implementation so you can focus on the quality of your ideas instead of worrying about how to communicate them. fresh mix communications sue@freshmixwords.ca twitter google+ linkedin pam neely pam neely i’m a content creation powerhouse – part writer, part marketer with a background in publishing and a master’s degree in direct and interactive marketing from new york university. i specialize in writing long-form blog posts about content marketing, email marketing, seo and social media for companies like act-on software and scoop.it. i also ghostwrite columns on forbes and entrepreneur. in 2016 i won a gold hermes award for blog writing and was named one of the top 20 most influential content marketers by scribblelive. master level pam neely pamneely@gmail.com twitter linkedin becky tumidolsky, mapw words in effect you invest in b2b content marketing and copywriting to expand your reach, influence, and revenues. i'm invested in delivering those results. i bring a head for business, concern for audiences, and creative energy to every writing project. from top of funnel to after the sale - blog posts, case studies, white papers, ebooks, editorials, web copy, emails, and more - i will capture your brand voice and values and go bold to generate interest, leads, and repeat sales. industries/sectors served: corporate consulting, energy, financial services, industrial supply, legal, logistics, marketing, saas, and more. words in effect becky@wordsineffect.com twitter linkedin steve mirsky direct hotel booking solutions learn how to develop and execute your very own content strategy boosting direct bookings on your own hotel, inn, or b&b website. the power is in your hands! i take you step-by-step towards your ultimate goal of a perpetually full guest list by first offering you a free content analysis. based on your findings, you can then build a content strategy that best connects with existing and potential guests. and when it comes to creating the content needed to fulfill your strategy, i stand at the ready to ease your burden when needed. let’s get started! direct hotel booking solutions steve@directhotelbookingsolutions.com twitter linkedin darren dematas, mba selfstartr content marketing strategy for ecommerce and saas. i help start-ups change the competitive landscape through pr, seo and link building. limited availability selfstartr darren@selfstartr.com matt bloom matthew c. bloom copywriting services you're here because you're hurting. i'm here to help you with the kind of pain only a fellow marketing professional understands. i know there are stories that are bursting to come out of your mouth. stories about your business or not-for-profit organization that will show prospective customers or donors why you matter. you can't get them out. and it hurts. they don't come out because you hate writing; because you don't know how to demonstrate roi; or, maybe because you're too busy doing your job. whatever the cause of the problem, i'm here to help fix it. email me to find out more. matt@matthewcbloom.com joe nattress you have a mission for your social enterprise, b-corporation, or nonprofit. to accomplish your mission, you need to raise awareness of how your organization solves pressing problems. i’m a copywriter and content marketing strategist with a passion for helping organizations do good in the world. my strengths include empathy, relationship building, storytelling, persuasion, research, and explaining complex ideas in clear language. i specialize in customer and donor acquisition and retention using in-depth articles, blog posts, e-books, landing pages, email autoresponders, webpages, and sales copy. let’s chat to see how we can work together to accomplish your mission. joe nattress joe@joenattress.com linkedin eric kleist website copywriter "excellent! email funnel was high quality and drove great revenue!" "email sequence is rocking! open rate doubled and sales are flowing!" it's all i do. email sales copy. instead of generalizing and taking on anything… i approach writing in a unique way. with passion. that means, i only accept gigs that wrap me up with positive passion. like… stuff that makes a difference. changes lives. inspires people. to take that next step. if you want a writer who loves more than just the art of selling… "eric was great in every way… he absolutely is the man for the job." website copywriter eric@websitecopywriter.com facebook twitter google+ linkedin crystal sykes simply playful fare, llc are you looking for someone who can tell your story with creativity and personality? i'll write your content so you don't have to. i love to help small businesses increase their traffic and sales through fun and informative content. part grammar nerd/part actual nerd; i specialize in food, wine, pets, legal, and jewelry. if you like my style, but your topic doesn't fit these niches, don't be afraid to email me to see if i have experience in your topic. i'm an awai verified copywriter with a ba in english, emphasis in creative writing. services: blog posts, articles, copywriting, emails, content strategy, e-books, online courses, recipe development, custom food photography. email me today to see how i can help you! cs creative content crystal@cscreativecontent.com twitter linkedin lindsay pevny lindsay pevny your shortcut to finding (and amplifying!) your brand's voice let's kick off a winning content strategy that attracts your audience and builds authority so customers trust you enough to click "buy now!" with a strong background in pet health and dog training, i've worked with corporations and solopreneurs, and many in between. i also work with ecommerce companies who are looking to boost sales with powerful product descriptions and newsworthy press releases. whether you're selling cbd, fitness, nutrition or home and garden products, i'm here to bring your online presence to the next level. that product description writer lindsay.pevny@gmail.com twitter linkedin thomas clifford thomas clifford hi, i'm tom, a former multi-award-winning documentary filmmaker turned b2b copywriter. my niche is ghostwriting for the professional service and marketing technology industries. most of my clients are ceos, business owners, consultants or coaches. i studied copywriting and article writing under sean d’souza and i continue to use his principles in my writing. how do i work? i use strategic outlines, interviews, and collaborative writing to create copy that seamlessly weaves your expert knowledge with just the right amount of persuasion to motivate your audience to take the next step in your sales cycle. why work with me? simple: my clients hardly ever rewrite. that's because my 5-step publish-ready system creates content that clients can use right away without much fiddling (and without supervising several rounds of rewrites). track record: • always on time • always on budget • 80+ linkedin recommendations blog post series results (from a large, international data analytics company): • 81.89% reduced bounce rate • 55.6% increase in sessions per user stop by my website to discover more reasons why collaborating with me on your projects makes the most sense. you can also contact me for my 16-page information kit that answers many faqs you might have. thomas clifford thomasclifford@me.com linkedin hannah eisenberg 3p creative group content marketing for inbound marketing (hubspot certified partner agency), premium content offers including ebooks and white papers, as well as landing pages and blog posts. 3p creative group twitter google+ linkedin brent peterson, pmp, ms, mba graceful resources certified project management professional (pmp) specializing in web design and online lead generation strategies. i'm really good at outlining strategic next steps for businesses, and then taking ownership of the technical side of things. i'm also crazy fun passionate about really cool lead magnets and online forms. graceful resources twitter linkedin melissa garcia little red writing hood combining 30 years of copywriting and marketing experience, i help businesses like yours develop content strategies that align with specific business goals and drive measurable and profitable results. a few results i've delivered: created a b2b ebook that generated 100,000 downloads in 6 months wrote and produced a low budget, consumer tip video that generated 15k views created a social media, video consumer awareness campaign that generated 20k views its first week helped client triple their website traffic in one month created several landing pages that generated between 24 to 70 percent lead-conversion rates (national average is between 2.5 and 11 percent) helped business acquire high quality leads with a 35 percent sales conversion, increasing their roi by 250 percent. my areas of expertise include: inbound and outbound marketing strategies traditional and digital content creation sales enablement sales copy (banner ads, advertisements, billboards, etc) e-books, reports, webinars, and other lead capture tools seo copywriting social media marketing brand messaging digital marketing copyediting content writing (blogs, brand storytelling, etc) marketing plans & strategies contact me anytime to set up a free 30-minute consultation. i'm excited to meet you! little red writing hood melissa@littleredwritinghood.me twitter linkedin ben sternke lifesize digital i help small businesses and nonprofits to develop a fully integrated content marketing strategy, which includes copywriting, social media, and landing page / web design. i focus on helping clients create helpful, educational, and inspiring content that looks beautiful and builds a relationship with an audience over time. as this audience becomes a "blue ocean" of people who are eager to hear from you and buy the products and services you offer, i also help you write sales copy that's direct, authentic, and doesn't sound "salesy." lifesize digital ben@lifesizedigital.com twitter linkedin lucy damasceno content creator | journalist | copywriter looking for result-driven content? let's chat about your business. i will work on your content marketing strategy and create website content, articles, blog posts, or landing pages that will delight your audience and increase your sales. tell me what you are struggling with, so i can find a solution for you. my skill set includes journalism, data analysis, digital marketing, seo, user experience, and public relations. and when you contact me, please mention you’ve found me on copyblogger. i’ll have a special deal for you. lucy damasceno itisme@lucydamasceno.com twitter linkedin dustin walker messaging & content strategy content strategy + copywriting that delivers measurable results. here's what makes me different: i dig deep to really understand who your customers are and the problems they need to solve. then i use a mix of persuasion science & marketing strategy to create content that actually grows your business. landing page optimization, email marketing and messaging are the core services i offer. check out my website below for more details. master level messaging & content strategy dustjwalk@gmail.com twitter linkedin mark crosling strategic content i create brilliant content marketing strategies that take your prospective customer from maybe not even knowing you, through to wanting to buy from you. that’s extremely powerful and achieved with well-purposed compelling content. it can be in any format, such as articles and blogs, a podcast series, webinars, online courses, or super high converting emails. oh, and a killer landing page is a must for whatever strategy. strategic content twitter google+ linkedin jennifer myers creative communication my words help entrepreneurs with personality-driven brands connect with their dream clients. i offer website copy, blogging, sales page copy, and more. creative communication jennifer@jennifermyers.net twitter sonia thompson try business school put your expertise on a stage where it belongs. i help brands get their ideal clients to flock to them with an integrated content strategy. i also help with execution elements such as blog posts, ebooks, email marketing, podcasts, virtual summits, media pitches, and other creative content approaches. try business school sonia@mytrybusiness.com twitter google+ wintress odom the writers for hire, inc. wintress founded the writers for hire, inc., over a decade ago. since then, she has overseen, edited, proofread, or written copy for over 200 clients, including several fortune 500 companies. wintress has a gift for organizing large projects, including thought leadership campaigns, corporate websites, research-intensive editorial, and non-fiction books. she graduated cum laude from rice university in 2000. master level the writers for hire, inc. wintress@thewritersforhire.com facebook twitter google+ linkedin ahmad munawar boutique growth i help professional services and consulting firms drive growth. are you looking to generate more leads for your services? close bigger deals and work with better clients? if so, we should talk. http://boutiquegrowth.com/about/ twitter linkedin benny christen grandahl webtextshop content marketing strategy and digital commerce strategy that archives your online business objectives, copywriting, tech writing, localizing sites for danish, scandinavian, and european markets and building digital online products. webtextshop info@webtextshop.dk google+ rc victorino rc victorino helping brands and entrepreneurs attract and connect to their audiences through the power of content marketing (including blogging, social media, email marketing, web design/management, inbound marketing, and more). i design and manage digital campaigns that disrupt the marketplace and help my clients reach and exceed their goals. rc victorino hello@rcvictorino.com facebook twitter linkedin anna bolton conversion copy co. hi there, i'm the founder and chief conversion copywriter at conversion copy co. i help clients generate more revenue by creating copy that attracts and converts more leads. for example, my clients have enjoyed: 75k in sales within 24-hours of sending a promo email a 500% increase in e-commerce sales after a website rewrite an 8-figure investment after my help on a pitch deck if you're looking for direct response copywriting powered by the tools of conversion optimization, i can help. let's talk about how i can help you grow opt-ins, get warmer leads, more buyers and repeat customers with higher lifetime value. conversion copy co. anna@conversioncopyco.com chris wilson chris j wilson did you find yourself overwhelmed by all the different writers and options on this page? that's what it's like on many websites, even the websites of good writers. i'm here because i know how to avoid that problem and many other copywriting mistakes. if you need convincing, but not manipulative sales materials (email opt-in pages, email sequences, and sales pages) then contact me for a no pressure consultation. we'll have a chat and work out if we're the right fit for each other. if not, then check out one of the other writers on this page. chris j wilson chris@chrisjwilson.net denise damron, phd new moon marketing communications denise damron offers a wide range of content creation services backed by more than thirty years in the marketing and advertising industry. using a rigorous research process, denise crafts content that is focused, motivating, and on-target to meet your objectives. new moon marketing communications denisedamron@newmoonmarcom.com twitter linkedin kimberly crossland the savvy copywriter whether it's ghostwriting a blog post or article, or putting together a landing page that converts visitors into buyers, i have the copywriting and online marketing experience to deliver. niche expertise includes saas, fitness, real estate, travel, and any business wanting to reach a specific geographic region the savvy copywriter kimberly@savvycopywriters.com twitter google+ vinay koshy sproutworth gain visibility and authority with a unique mix of content strategy and copywriting. i seek to understand your customers and the problems they need to solve. then i use persuasion science and marketing strategy to create one of a kind content that rapidly drives traffic and builds authority. actionable blog content, lead magnets, ebooks, landing page optimization, email marketing and messaging are the core services i offer. sproutworth vinay.k@sproutworth.com twitter linkedin carin kilby clark carin kilby clark works with clients to create conversational copy and content that demonstrates authentic thought leadership and builds authority. specializes in brand journalism, audience engagement, and content marketing strategy. carin kilby clark carin@clueconsultingllc.net twitter google+ jane schwartz the artful messenger does your brand story feel disjointed? let me help you create a compelling website with the right words and gorgeous design. i also write scripts for marketing videos that will make your business shine. i'm jane-the artful messenger-a copywriter and website designer. i'll help you tell your story. working together, we'll connect with your audience and inspire them to buy. and you'll have a brand story you can be proud of. the artful messenger janeschwartz@theartfulmessenger.com linkedin leigh-ann heuer corecubed i am a content creator with experience in writing for the home health and aging care industry. i specialize in content strategy, website copy, blog content, email marketing campaigns, brochures, and social media, and am well versed in seo. limited availability corecubed facebook diane m. gribschaw dmg marketing i’m a story-teller and playwright with a long-time interest in the art and science of persuasion and have studied copywriting, advertising and marketing for nearly two decades. specialities include: email marketing campaigns, website copy, landing pages, course creation for self-improvement. there’s a special place in my heart and client list for the arts and non-profits, science, new technology and start-up businesses. limited availability dmg marketing twitter linkedin chris nesbitt strategic business directs our firm helps you maximize all the elements of your business through small business optimization. as it relates to content marketing, we specialize in developing content and inbound marketing strategies specific to your individual business that increase sales, websites that assist in creating leads and sales, training you and/or your team how to execute the strategy, and/or assisting in the implementation (doing the work for you). we work with small to mid-sized companies in many industries and specialize in professional service firms (including legal, accounting, construction, service contractors, manufacturing, etc.). strategic business directs chris@strategicbusinessdirects.com linkedin katie tibbetts storybrand certified guide ever said, "ooh, i wish someone would just do that for me" when it comes to clarifying your message and crafting copy that hooks people by the heartstrings? i’m glad you’re here! because that's kind of my jam. i'm a storybrand certified guide who helps small businesses and personal brands inspire action and g.r.o.w. with the right story and strategy. and i've got a secret weapon to help you kick confusion to the curb--storybrand. it's a powerful framework that's helped thousands of companies make millions of dollars. we’re talking websites that wow and win business. emails that connect and convert. ready to make like jackson pollock and turn your “meh” marketing into a masterpiece--without staying in the lines? i thought so. swing by my virtual office and let’s chat: katie tibbetts katie@katietibbetts.com christine laureano ba6 content marketing if you make a product, i'll help you market it! content strategy and copywriting for uniquely crafted product manufacturers and creative entrepreneurs. my mission is to help you identify with your ideal clients and create marketing content that will help you grow your ecommerce business. landing pages, product descriptions, web copy, email marketing, product catalogs, direct marketing. ba6 content marketing christine@ba6marketing.com facebook twitter google+ erin harris erin harris want more clicks, calls, customers? your copy is your online salesperson. if it's not doing its job for you, i can help you get results. my words will help you: get more leads nurture your prospects turn your prospects into buyers turn your buyers into raving fans i do this by getting inside your ideal customer's head, connecting what they want with what you have. if you need powerful website copy... supercharged lead magnets... persuasive landing pages... convincing sales pages... or awesome emails that are fun to read (!) and get clicks, contact me for a free discovery call. erin harris linkedin cheryl tan cheryl tan media i help business owners and nonprofit organizations create a clear message, communicate it effectively through video and connect with a mass number of people. how? through video marketing and media outreach. i am a former tv news journalist who is passionate about helping people connect with their audience. my goal is to take my clients step by step through my standout marketing system to increase their visibility and tell their stories in a bigger way. cheryl tan media cheryl@cheryltanmedia.com morgan dix morgan dix copywriter and content marketer for inspired entrepreneurs who want to turn fans into customers through podcasting, copywriting, email marketing, lead nurture funnels, landing pages, product launches, and social media. morgan dix twitter google+ linkedin brandon davis the copy rocker i offer content marketing, copywriting and web design services. i love helping others succeed. i have worked with all kinds of businesses and products: law firms, medical groups, hot water heater repair, dog food, and yes even underwear! i can help you find your voice, communicate your message, build your reputation, increase revenue and best of all – we’ll have a blast doing it. master level the copy rocker digital skyrocket info@thecopyrocker.com linkedin brian ventrudo mintaka marketing communications white papers, case studies, e-courses and educational material, as well as direct-response email marketing for sales lead generation. brian has our “master content marketer” certification. master level mintaka marketing communications brian@mintakamarcom.com gregory lynn tell stories make sales as soon as your potential customers encounter a problem you can solve, they start on a journey like the hero’s journey in every story ever written. when they go looking for a solution, you have an opportunity to educate them about their problem and your solution. they’re the hero. you’re the mentor. i’m the guy that makes the introduction. i’ll work with you to develop and execute a content strategy that will attract attention from your ideal customers, develop an affinity with your audience, and convert that audience into paying customers. tell stories make sales greg@tellstoriesmakesales.com linkedin david pederson i write for saas companies who want to improve their customer experience. the university of toronto taught me how to use data. ucla, awai, and copyblogger taught me the art of narrative and persuasion. 20 years of experience let me help my clients use data and deep customer analysis to drive their content strategy. video content, case studies, white papers, email, seo, and analytics are my specialties. i can help you turn free trials into paying customers who want to tell their friends about you. to learn more, click on the link below david pederson david@davidpederson.com linkedin sally wood wordly all your copywriting, content marketing, communications, public relations, editing and digital strategy needs. specialising in practical communications and copywriting solutions, sally is focused on creativity, conviction, cut-through and, above all, functionality—she understands how important it is to have copy that sells, compels and converts. copy that really speaks to your audience. that’s why she takes the time to understand not only your objectives, but the wants and needs of your audience. wordly sally@wordly.com.au facebook twitter google+ linkedin janice sakata-schultze schultze travel communications i create winning content marketing campaigns and strategies and for travel, tourism and hospitality industries, as well as luxury lifestyle, home design and real estate brands. my specialties are copywriting, ghost writing, email marketing, landing pages, sales copy and white papers. in addition, i am travel writer, blogger and photographer. schultze travel communications info@schultzetravelcommunications.com twitter google+ linkedin mike albert mike the writer when you're launching a startup, you need a writer who can clearly explain the world-changing benefits of your product quickly and easily. that's where i come in. i'm mike the writer - copywriting for startups. #writelean i've got no time for buzzwords, jargon, or marketing-speak. just great content delivered consistently. if you'd like to know more, i'd love to chat. mike the writer mike@mikethewriter.co.uk linkedin douglas paton paton content marketing your story is important. telling your story helps you connect with your customers on a more personal level. your story helps build trust and authority. it connects you with potential customers and keeps past customers coming back for more. i help you tell your story, your way. i specialize in blog posts, white papers, ebooks and email campaigns that will enhance your business and build your authority. i work with small-to-medium sized companies in technical industries (everything from manufacturing to software) and the outdoors industry. i use storytelling to help you connect and analytics to help you tell the stories that matter most. contact me today and let's tell your story. paton content marketing dgpaton80@gmail.com twitter linkedin get free access to proven marketing training. notice: javascript is required for this content. copyright © 2006–2020 copyblogger media llc contact comment policy privacy policy cookie policy refund policy terms