menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login category “change & challenges” stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy by sandy woznicki “health is not just about what you’re eating. it’s also about what you’re thinking and saying.” a virus is spreading across the globe. schools are shut down. people are out of work. grocery stores are empty. weddings, graduations, vacations, a … trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing by casey hersch “our bodies contain our histories—every chapter, line, and verse of every event and relationship in our lives.” ~caroline myss i could hear my teacher talking, but i wasn’t listening. staring at the math homework in front of me, i couldn’t … how i overcame my anger to be better for my family by stephanie weiderstrand “where there is anger, there is always pain underneath.” ~eckhart tolle as a special-needs parent, it feels that i am in constant anger and fight mode. i am fighting with my children on the home front. i am fighting for … how to stay mindful and safe amid the coronavirus outbreak by yurika vu “we cannot always control everything that happens to us in this life, but we can control how we respond.” ~lionel kendrick the coronavirus is no longer isolated to just china. it’s here, affecting over ninety countries, and it continues to … how to know if hidden low self-esteem is holding you back in life by carly ann “forgive yourself for not knowing better at the time. forgive yourself for giving away your power. forgive yourself for past behaviors. forgive yourself for the survival patterns and traits you picked up while enduring trauma. forgive yourself for being who … how to end the cycle of addiction in your family by ashley surma “you could have grown cold, but you grew courageous instead. you could have given up, but you kept on going. you could have seen obstacles, but you called them adventures. you could have called them weeds, but instead you called … what to do when you’re stressed, distressed, or overwhelmed by linda carroll “picture a pattern of upright dominoes that have been positioned just far enough away from one other to highlight the gap between them, but just close enough to hit each other if one of them tips over. hit a single … how anxiety became my guide, not my enemy by madeleine eames “you are not a mess. you are a feeling person in a messy world.” ~glennon doyle melton i have suffered with some type of anxiety for as long as i can remember. the stomach aches at age five. trips to … radical gratitude: how to turn your pain into peace by deborah perdue my journey to living in gratitude began in 2010. and let me say that up until that time, until i was age forty-five, i was a complainer, griper, and a whiner, with absolutely no reason to complain! luckily, i was … the skills you need to survive stress when it hits by rosemary bointon “the greatest weapon against stress is our ability to choose one thought over another.” ~william james have you ever been in a situation where you felt your world was ending? when the stress was overwhelming and you were so miserable, … how i healed from gaslighting and found self-love after the abuse by hayley brooks “i smile because i have survived everything the world has thrown at me. i smile because when i was knocked down, i got back up.” ~unknown had you asked me only two years ago i wouldn’t have even been able … why an internal focus is the solution to all of your problems by marlena tillhon-haslam “the moment you take personal responsibility for everything in your life is the moment you can change anything in your life.” ~hal elrod i’m an introspective person, and at this point in my life don’t have any problems with taking … growing up with a narcissist: how i’m healing from the abuse by victoria grande “you could have grown cold, but you grew courageous instead. you could have given up, but you kept on going. you could have seen obstacles, but you called them adventures. you could have called them weeds, but instead you called … embodied trauma conference: a free online event, feb 3-8 by lori deschene would you say you’ve experienced trauma in your lifetime? perhaps it’s an obvious yes—if you’ve fought in a war, you’ve been abused, or you’ve survived a tragic accident or natural disaster. but odds are, even if you haven’t experienced these … growth isn’t always linear: two steps forward, one step back by lori deschene “if you are going through a time of discouragement, there is a time of great personal growth ahead.” ~oswald chambers if i were to look back at my life thus far, as i often do, i’d notice a pattern of … 20 life-changing tools, 95% off—one week, starting today by lori deschene first things first, happy 2020! it’s a new year, filled with promise and possibility. if last year was tough for you, it’s now in the rearview mirror. if it was full of blessings and opportunities, you’re likely excited to see … why this will be the year i stop running from pain by maureen cooper “one has to accept pain as a condition of existence.” ~morris west this may seem sounds counter-intuitive, but this year i want to let go of trying to avoid suffering. it doesn’t mean that i am a masochist and plan … 20 powerful quotes to help minimize conflict and drama by lori deschene the holidays can be a lot of fun, but let’s face it, they can sometimes be stressful, particularly if you spend them with family. surrounded by multiple generations of people, many with different perspectives and beliefs, it’s easy to feel … compassion is the key to overcoming hardship (and insomnia) by elizabeth bryan-jacobs “you can never know how many lives you’ve touched, so just know it’s far more than you think. even the tiniest acts of love, kindness, and compassion can have a massive ripple effect. you have made the world a better … the boundaries that helped me stop being a doormat by suzanne falter “boundaries are a part of self-care. they are healthy, normal, and necessary.” ~doreen virtue i’m really nice. too nice actually. i’ve even been something of a doormat in my life. but what can i say? i was trained that way.… page 1 of 5912345...102030...»last » translate free download: buddha desktop wallpaper recent forum topics abandonment issues & experiencing love? breakup, cheating, bad fight, just looking for advice? heartbroken lost lonely _ how move on emotional learning journey what should i do? have i tried hard enough? not feeling motivated lately need some inspiration! maintaining self in relationships please guys, i really need your advice. break up and third party situation my girlfriend said she has a soulmate but it isn't me fun & inspiring don’t let social distance lead to emotional distance get more fun & inspiring images & videos. latest posts 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be if you think people-pleasing is being kind… stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing 3 approaches to the coronavirus (and which is smartest) disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top