charlie on travel blog green travel green travel guides sustainable travel vegetarian travel house sitting destinations africa morocco asia indonesia malaysia philippines sri lanka taiwan thailand vietnam central america belize costa rica guatemala mexico nicaragua panama europe bulgaria czechia germany iceland macedonia malta norway poland spain uk south america colombia ecuador travel resources about about charlie press work with charlie on travel need a house sitter? contact charlie on travel blog green travel green travel guides sustainable travel vegetarian travel house sitting destinations africa morocco asia indonesia malaysia philippines sri lanka taiwan thailand vietnam central america belize costa rica guatemala mexico nicaragua panama europe bulgaria czechia germany iceland macedonia malta norway poland spain uk south america colombia ecuador travel resources about about charlie press work with charlie on travel need a house sitter? contact i'm charlie uk travel blogger and eco-conscious digital nomad read my blog i'm charlie uk travel blogger and eco-conscious digital nomad read my blog as seen on previous next uk travel bloggers we’re charlie and luke — uk travel bloggers and digital nomads who write about sustainable travel. we want to make responsible travel choices and help you do the same. the kind of travel we love includes responsible wildlife and community tourism, staying in eco-friendly accommodation and house sitting, eating local food, and being conscious of our impact. our story follow on social media facebook twitter instagram linkedin youtube sustainable travel sustainable travel means considering your impact on the planet and its people. let’s make mindful choices to support local communities, eat local food, and offset our carbon emissions. let’s learn to travel more sustainably together. what is sustainable travel? sustainable travel means finding a way that tourism can be maintained long-term through minimising negative impacts on natural and cultural environments. read more how to carbon offset your flights we've been worried about the negative environmental impact of flying. we looked into how to carbon offset flights and we share the best offset schemes. read more why you should eat local eating and buying seasonal, locally grown food is much better for the environment. local food is also part of local culture and your travel experience. read more looking for somewhere? travel guides is your next travel adventure calling? our travel guides offer authentic experiences and the best local gems we found on our travels. here are some of our most loved adventures. sri lanka travel guide sri lanka is an island of bustling cities, secluded tea fields, national parks with wild elephants and sandy beaches. in this sri lanka travel guide, find the best places to visit in the country. read more morocco travel guide morocco was unlike anywhere else i’ve been. i share our travel route of south morocco including the best riads in marrakech, hiking the highest mountain in north africa and taking a trip to the sahara desert. read more barcelona travel guide barcelona is an ideal slow travel destination. from cycling around the city gazing at architecture and lazy afternoons on the beach to roaming the market and drinking catalonian wine in the city’s outdoor squares. read more planning an adventure? let's go uk travel the uk is where we call home, though we’re most at home on the road. we love taking weekend jaunts around the uk’s best cities and getting out into the green countryside. explore our home country with us. london travel guide & best things to do the closest city to my hometown, london has a special place in my heart. the uk‘s capital city has blossomed into a melting pot of culture, art and cuisine. read more a weekend guide to brighton as brighton locals, we know the city like the back of our hands. we share our favourite things to do in brighton if you're down for a weekend break by the sea. read more best independent coffee shops in brighton brighton’s independent coffee scene is buzzing. forget starbucks, costa and those other chain coffee shops. you can get your caffeine fix and support local brighton cafes. read more subscribe to get travel gems first first name email i accept the privacy policy slow travel experiences we’re slow travellers. we like to spend a long time in each place we go. we don’t try to rush around all the tourist sights and cram our travel days. instead, we try to get to know local life. these are some of our favourite slow travel experiences. what is slow travel? and why we love it we made a conscious decision to put a stop to fast travel. rushing around famous sights and landmarks, and jumping to the next country was exhausting and unsatisfying. read more living and teaching in taiwan we moved to taiwan to teach english for a year. our experience living and teaching in taiwan dramatically changed our lifestyle. taiwan holds a special place in our hearts. read more guatemalan peanut butter workshop ever wanted to learn to make your own peanut butter? we met lidia, a local guatemalan who makes her own peanut butter from scratch. read more follow our adventure facebook twitter instagram work with me charlie on travel works with brands and organisations that share our values. find more information and enquire about opportunities and collaborations here. affiliates & copyright charlie on travel may use affiliate links to recommend products or services. clicking on these links will never cause you to pay an additional fee. © copyright charlie on travel. photography or text cannot be used without permission. privacy policy.