editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. news latest 36 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 37 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 40 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime gop governor shoots down trump’s plan to end social distancing by easter: ‘yeah, no’ massachusetts gov. charlie baker (r) at the formal governor's office at the state house in boston, massachusetts on april 15, 2015. (photo by john blanding/the boston globe via getty images) by cristina cabrera | march 27, 2020 3:57 p.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. getting all of america to ignore the covid-19 pandemic and stop self-quarantining by easter? keep dreaming, says massachusetts gov. charlie baker (r). on friday, the republican governor threw cold water on president donald trump’s hopes of having americans back at work by easter (which falls on april 12) despite the fact that coronavirus outbreak has shown no sign of stopping. as baker was holding a presser on the coronavirus in boston, a reporter brought up how trump has been lobbying for the end of social distancing measures by that deadline. “do you see any hope of that in massachusetts?” the journalist asked. the republican governor had a fairly blunt response. “the information we’re getting from public health experts and from health care providers here in massachusetts is that…yeah, no,” baker said, shaking his head. “we’re not going to be up and running by easter, no.” watch the governor below: cristina cabrera (@crismcabrera) is a newswriter at tpm based in new york. she previously worked for vocativ, usa today and ny1 news. have a tip? send it here! includes: charlie bakercovid-19donald trumpmassachusetts more in news 36 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 37 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 40 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy