skip to content living in croatia balkans croatian recipes contact contact about write for us search for: albania bih bulgaria croatia greece kosovo macedonia montenegro romania serbia slovenia turkey beyond caucasus eastern europe albania bih bulgaria croatia greece kosovo macedonia montenegro romania serbia slovenia turkey beyond caucasus eastern europe balkans & croatia travel blog: chasing the donkey welcome to chasing the donkey all the information you need to travel to croatia, the balkans & beyond. let us help you find what you need. where are you headed? these comprehensive travel guides will help you save time travel planning & travel like a local. croatia explore slovenia explore bosnia-hergegovina explore bulgaria explore albania explore romania explore russia explore serbia explore georgia explore azerbaijan explore slovenia explore macedonia explore croatia explore albania explorepreviousnext sj’s musings from croatia see all coronavirus in croatia & the balkans sj begonjamarch 25, 2020 coronavirus. a word that has been in the media for a few months. lots of worrying reports, many good news stories about the healed cases coronavirus (covid-2019) cases. but, no denying it continues to spread globally, now including into the balkans. continue reading diary of (self imposed) coronavirus lockdown in croatia sj begonjamarch 18, 2020 so, today it begins. life behind closed doors…well, maybe not all the way closed. let’s see. but certainly, there will be no traveling, which will hit me the hardest. and, no parties or socializing are in our future. continue reading croatian cooking recipes see all how to make oblatne s čokoladnom karamel kremom (tort wafers cake) vedran boškovićmarch 14, 2020 here is how to make croatian oblatne – tasty wafers that are filled chocolate dulce de leche filling. nothing like your baka makes. these ones are better!! read more croatian easter bread recipe (sirnica or pinca) vedran boškovićfebruary 16, 2020 sirnica is a traditional croatian easter bread – here is an easy to follow recipe to make it at home. read more bosnia-herzegovina travel see all tipping in bosnia & herzegovina: how to tip in bosnia-herzegovina ana horvatfebruary 11, 2020 headed to bosnia-herzegovina? then you’ll need to know how to tip. here in this tipping in bosnia-herzegovina guide, we cover hotels, restaurants, tours and taxi drivers. read more national parks in bosnia and herzegovina guide sj begonjafebruary 5, 2020 there are three beautiful national parks in bosnia and herzegovina: sutjeska national park, kozara national park and una national park. read more slovenia travel see all slovenia travel blog: best castles in slovenia sj begonjafebruary 17, 2020 wanna be a princess or a prince for the day? true castle lovers should definitely head one (or all) of these magnificent castles in slovenia. continue reading how to get from ljubljana to lake bled, slovenia ana horvatfebruary 11, 2020 this is your comprehensive guide on how to get from ljubljana to lake bled. bus train and car – all covered for you. continue reading travel gear best packing cubes best shoes for travel travel compression socks what to wear on long flight anti theft backpacks for travel driving the balkans driving in croatia driving in kosovo driving in albania driving in bulgaria driving in bosnia-herzegovina getting around croatia croatia airport private transfers how to get from split to zadar how to get from zagreb to split how to get from split to dubrovnik how to get from zagreb to ljubljana travel with kids travel strollers portable high chairs family travel wallets kids hotels in croatia kids noise cancelling headphones balkans accommodation where to stay in sofia where to stay in kotor where to stay in serbia where to stay in tirana where to stay in sarajevo croatia accommodation where to stay in hvar where to stay in split where to stay in dubrovnik all inclusive hotels in croatia croatia family resorts & hotels chasing the donkey – croatia & balkan travel blog we blog about the best travel destinations in croatia, albania, bosnia-herzegovina, bulgaria, montenegro, slovenia, azerbaijan, georgia, nth. macedonia, romania, russia and serbia. we travel all over seeking out food, accommodation and the best things to do in the balkans so you’ll save time travel planning & travel like a local. let's get social we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. © chasing the donkey 2020. all rights reserved. error: no. sorry.