billionaires all billionaires world’s billionaires forbes 400 america’s richest self-made women china’s richest india’s richest indonesia’s richest korea’s richest thailand’s richest japan’s richest australia’s richest taiwan’s richest singapore’s richest philippines’ richest hong kong’s richest malaysia’s richest money & politics 2020 money innovation all innovation 5g ai big data cio network cloud cloud 100 consumer tech cybersecurity enterprise tech everbridge brandvoice | paid program games green tech healthcare ibm brandvoice | paid program oracle brandvoice | paid program sap brandvoice | paid program science servicenow brandvoice | paid program social media t-mobile for business brandvoice | paid program venture capital leadership all leadership careers cfo network cmo network deloitte brandvoice | paid program diversity & inclusion education forbeswomen google cloud brandvoice | paid program leadership strategy under 30 money all money banking & insurance crypto & blockchain etfs & mutual funds fintech hedge funds & private equity investing markets personal finance premium investing newsletters retirement taxes wealth management business all business aerospace & defense energy food & drink hollywood & entertainment manufacturing media mitsubishi heavy industries brandvoice | paid program policy real estate retail sportsmoney transportation small business all small business entrepreneurs franchises small business strategy lifestyle all lifestyle amway brandvoice | paid program arts boats & planes cars & bikes dining forbeslife forbes travel guide spirits travel vices watches lists advisor all advisor the best credit cards of 2020 best travel credit cards best business credit cards best credit card sign up bonuses best rewards credit cards best student credit cards best cash back credit cards best balance transfer credit cards best hotel credit cards best airline credit cards best first credit cards best credit cards for bad credit chase sapphire preferred card citi double cash card the platinum card from american express ink business preferred credit card bank of america premium rewards credit card chase sapphire reserve card best tax software of 2020 best travel insurance companies featured 5 innovations changing the future of food 30 under 30 2020 aarp brandvoice | paid program abb brandvoice | paid program chase home lending brandvoice | paid program cole haan brandvoice | paid program dna of success forbes analytics plus with teradata | paid program forbes insights with arm treasure data investor forecast: 5 key trends shaping your financial future money 2020 set up for success: launch your small business from scratch set up for success: scale your small business forbes insights with vertiv | paid program voices of success well earned: the world’s wealthiest celebrate new milestones breaking all breaking coronavirus more forbes daily cover stories forbes editors’ picks daily dozen briefing crypto confidential newsletters forbes shopping forbes coupons forbes 8 forbes video dark capital forbes magazine investing digest free issue of forbes chase sapphire reserve® apply now on chase's secure website advisor credit cards chase sapphire reserve review advertiser disclosure chase sapphire reserve travel card review sebastian obando contributor i advisor updated: mar 4, 2020, 1:49pm i cover personal finance related topics. editorial note: forbes may earn a commission on sales made from partner links on this page, but that doesn't affect our editors' opinions or evaluations. our verdict the chase sapphire reserve® offers some of the best travel rewards available today. a combination of the welcome bonus, ongoing rewards, 50% chase ultimate rewards travel bonus, and travel credits make it well worth the annual fee for those who travel regularly. for those who don’t travel regularly, however, there are better reward card options. pros $300 annual travel credit point transfers to airline and hotel partner programs up to 3x rewards welcome bonus cons high regular apr high annual fee of $550, not waived in first year no intro apr offer requires excellent credit highlights earn 50,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that’s $750 toward travel when you redeem through chase ultimate rewards® $300 annual travel credit as reimbursement for travel purchases charged to your card each account anniversary year 3x points on travel immediately after earning your $300 travel credit. 3x points on dining at restaurants & 1 point per $1 spent on all other purchases. $0 foreign transaction fees. get 50% more value when you redeem your points for travel through chase ultimate rewards. for example, 50,000 points are worth $750 toward travel 1:1 point transfer to leading airline and hotel loyalty programs access to 1,000+ airport lounges worldwide after an easy, one-time enrollment in priority pass™ select up to $100 application fee credit for global entry or tsa pre✓® one year complimentary lyft pink ($199 minimum value). complimentary dashpass subscription from doordash after activating by 12/31/21. more highlights chase sapphire reserve® apply now → apply now on chase's secure website regular apr 18.49% - 25.49% variable annual fee $550 welcome bonus 50,000 bonus points credit score excellent credit table of contents at a glance rewards transferring points rewards potential introductory apr other card benefits the fine print pros & cons is this the card for you? at a glance the chase sapphire reserve credit card is one of the most premium rewards cards on the market. the card boasts a rich signup bonus, travel rewards and dining rewards. the card will also grant access to the chase ultimate rewards portal, a popular tool among frequent travelers. the card does charge a $550 annual fee. this fee, however, is offset in part by a $300 annual travel credit. for frequent travelers, the travel benefits are well worth the cost of the card. earn 50,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that's $750 toward travel when you redeem through chase ultimate rewards® receive up to $300 in statement credits as reimbursement for travel purchases charged to your account each anniversary year earn 3x points on travel after earning the travel credit, 3x points on dining and 1x point for all other purchases receive a 50% bonus when you redeem points for travel through chase ultimate rewards no foreign transaction fees transfer points 1:1 to partner airline and hotel programs trip cancellation/interruption insurance purchase and return protection rewards the chase sapphire reserve is best known for its travel rewards. those rewards have earned it a place on the forbes advisor’s lists of the the 10 best travel reward credit cards and the 10 best credit cards of 2020. earning rewards the chase sapphire reserve offers four levels of rewards: 50,000 bonus points 3x points on travel and dining 1x for all other purchases travel and other credits 50,000 bonus points: new cardmembers can earn 50,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that's $750 toward travel when you redeem through chase ultimate rewards®. the bonus points are worth $750 when redeemed through chase ultimate rewards for airfare, hotels, car rentals, or cruises. note that the bonus is available only to those who do not have any sapphire card and have not received a new cardmember bonus for any sapphire card in the past 48 months. 3x points: earning rewards with the chase sapphire reserve is very straightforward. you’ll earn 3x points on travel and dining purchases. keep in mind, although purchases on travel earn 3x points, this does not include the purchases that the $300 travel credit reimburses. 1x points: all other purchases earn 1x point per $1 spent. travel credits: cardmembers receive a $300 credit each card anniversary to be used toward travel. this credit is applied as a statement credit for travel purchases automatically. the card also offers a $100 statement credit every four years toward the global entry or tsa pre✓® fee. redeeming rewards there are a number of ways to redeem points accumulated on your chase sapphire reserve. after logging in to the chase ultimate rewards portal, users can choose to redeem points for travel, statement credits, amazon credits, direct deposits, or gift cards, among others. however, keep in mind, you will maximize value by redeeming for travel through chase ultimate rewards or through points transfers to partner airlines or hotels. (more about transfers below.). points are worth 1.5 cents each when you factor in the 50% bonus for redeeming for travel through the ultimate rewards portal. here is an estimate of point values based on redemption strategies: travel booked through chase ultimate rewards (1.5 cents per point) statement credit (1 cent per point) direct deposit (1 cent per point) gift cards (1 cent per point) amazon purchases (0.8 cent per point) transferring points transferring points with the chase sapphire reserve can be extremely beneficial. chase allows users to transfer points on a 1 to 1 ratio to the following airline and travel partners: aer lingus aerclub british airways executive club air france/klm flying blue jetblue trueblue singapore airlines krisflyer southwest airlines rapid rewards united mileageplus virgin atlantic flying club iberia plus hyatt gold passport ihg rewards club marriott bonvoy since some airlines’ rewards are worth more than 1.5 cents per point, you can potentially stretch your points’ value using this method. rewards potential to assess the reward potential, let’s assume someone charges the following to the card in an average month: travel: $300 (900 points) restaurants: $250 (750 points) groceries: $600 (600 points) utilities: $500 (500 points) other shopping: $500 (500 points) with this budget as an example, this user would earn 3,250 points monthly, or 39,000 points annually. keep in mind, this spending would also earn the card’s 50,000 bonus points, so this cardholder would earn 89,000 points in the first year. if all these points were used toward travel, this would translate to around $1,335 in the first year. introductory apr the chase sapphire reserve offers no intro apr. other card benefits purchase and fraud protection zero liability protection on unauthorized charges $300 annual travel credit no foreign transaction fee complimentary airport lounge access access to chase ultimate rewards portal extends the time period of the u.s. manufacturer’s warranty by an additional year on eligible warranties of three years or less the fine print interest rates apr: 18.49% - 25.49% variable apr for cash advance: 26.49% fees annual fee: $550 balance transfer fee: either $5 or 5% of the amount of each balance transfer, whichever is greater cash advance: either $10 or 5% of the amount of each transaction, whichever is greater. foreign purchase transaction fee: $0 late penalty: up to $39 returned payment: up to $39 pros & cons what we like transfer points to long list of airline partners to maximize points’ value 3x points on travel and dining access to chase ultimate rewards portal points don’t expire no foreign transaction fee signup bonus 50% bonus when points are used for travel through chase ultimate rewards $300 annual travel credit what could be better high annual fee best used for travel redemption is this the card for you? the chase sapphire reserve is an excellent credit card for those looking for great travel perks, access to the ultimate rewards portal and high dining rewards. the card appeals to frequent travelers who frequent restaurants and aren’t put off by the card’s high $550 annual fee. if used correctly, the card’s perks and rewards should well make up for this fee. keep in mind, users will need to have excellent credit in order to qualify for this card. if the above sounds like you, then the chase sapphire reserve credit card can become one of your favorite cards in your wallet. next up in credit cards chase sapphire preferred card review (our best overall travel card) best travel credit cards best credit cards for excellent credit chase sapphire preferred vs. chase sapphire reserve the 5/24 rule: how opening and closing credit cards can backfire haven't found the right card yet? check out these popular alternatives: ink business preferred® credit card learn more learn more ink business preferred® credit card new offer! earn 100k bonus points after you spend $15,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that’s $1,250 toward travel when redeemed through chase ultimate rewards® earn 3 points per $1 on the first $150,000 spent on travel and select business categories each account anniversary year earn 1 point per $1 on all other purchases – with no limit to the amount you can earn points are worth 25% more when you redeem for travel through chase ultimate rewards redeem points for travel, cash back, gift cards and more – your points don’t expire as long as your account is open no foreign transaction fees employee cards at no additional cost $95 annual fee more info chase sapphire preferred® card learn more learn more chase sapphire preferred® card earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that’s $750 toward travel when you redeem through chase ultimate rewards® 2x points on travel and dining at restaurants worldwide & 1 point per dollar spent on all other purchases. get 25% more value when you redeem for airfare, hotels, car rentals and cruises through chase ultimate rewards. for example, 60,000 points are worth $750 toward travel get unlimited deliveries with a $0 delivery fee and reduced service fees on orders over $12 for a minimum of one year on qualifying food purchases with dashpass, doordash’s subscription service. activate by 12/31/21. earn 5x points on lyft rides through march 2022. that’s 3x points in addition to the 2x points you already earn on travel. more info you may also like the 6 best chase credit cards of march 2020 best credit cards for road trips in march 2020 ihg rewards credit cards: which one is better? chase freedom review chase slate credit card review best credit cards for united flyers in march 2020 forbes adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. to the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. the opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved, or otherwise endorsed by our partners. sebastian obando contributor based in new york city and previously washington d.c., i cover personal finance related topics.#bio_separator_here#... read more first published: aug 29, 2019, 7:00am find the best credit card find the best credit card the best credit cards of 2020 best hotel credit cards best credit card sign up bonuses best airline credit cards best visa credit cards trending credit card reviews ink business preferred review bank of america premium rewards review platinum card from american express review blue cash preferred card from american express capital one ventureone rewards card review credit card 101 the forbes guide to credit cards what is a good credit score a forbes guide to choosing a cash back credit card credit score ranges are based on fico® credit scoring. this is just one scoring method and a credit card issuer may use another method when considering your application. these are provided as guidelines only and approval is not guaranteed. earn 50,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that's $750 toward travel when you redeem through chase ultimate rewards® © 2020 forbes media llc. all rights reserved. adchoices adchoices privacy statement terms and conditions contact us send us feedback jobs at forbes reprints & permissions forbes press room forbes quote of the day advertise the forbes advisor editorial team is independent and objective. to help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the forbes advisor site. this compensation comes from two main sources. first, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. the compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. this site does not include all companies or products available within the market. second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. the compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on forbes advisor. while we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, forbes advisor does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. here is a list of our partners who offer products that we have affiliate links for. lorem are you sure you want to rest your choices? cancel ok