skip to main content a community of independent local bookstores search for books search enter the terms you wish to search for. toggle navigation menu main navigation locate an independent, local bookstore indie bestsellers indie next list reading group indie next list kids indie next list find indies selling ebooks the impact of amazon's growth chasing vermeer (scholastic gold) (paperback) by brett helquist (illustrator), blue balliett scholastic paperbacks, 9780439372978, 304pp. publication date: may 1, 2005 list price: 7.99* * individual store prices may vary. description this bewitching first novel is a puzzle, wrapped in a mystery, disguised as an adventure, and delivered as a work of art. chasing vermeer joins the scholastic gold line, which features award-winning and beloved novels. includes exclusive bonus content! when a book of unexplainable occurences brings petra and calder together, strange things start to happen: seemingly unrelated events connect; an eccentric old woman seeks their company; an invaluable vermeer painting disappears. before they know it, the two find themselves at the center of an international art scandal, where no one is spared from suspicion. as petra and calder are drawn clue by clue into a mysterious labyrinth, they must draw on their powers of intuition, their problem solving skills, and their knowledge of vermeer. can they decipher a crime that has stumped even the fbi? about the author blue balliett is the author of several bestselling, acclaimed mystery novels, including hold fast, chasing vermeer (a book sense book of the year and an edgar award winner), the wright 3, the calder game, and the danger box. she writes in the laundry room of her home in chicago, illinois, and you can find her online at blueballiettbooks.com. brett helquist was born in ganado, arizona, and grew up in orem, utah. he entered brigham young university as an engineering major, but soon realized this was not the right choice for him. having decided to take time off from college, he headed to taiwan where he stumbled into a job illustrating english textbooks, which he enjoyed. there, a friend introduced him to an illustration student, also from brigham young university. this introduction inspired brett to eventually switch majors. after spending a year in taiwan, he went back to byu and transferred to the illustration department. in 1993 he received a fine arts degree in illustration. buy at local store enter your zip code below to purchase from an indie close to you. search online and in-store stock may differ. please call before going to store. or buy here amazon's true cost: lost jobs, storefronts, & revenue locate stores:by name|by zip why shop indie indie next list indie bestsellers indies first link to indiebound affiliate program sign in|create account get help|security & privacy|terms of use copyright © 2020 american booksellers association