{"/api/v1/ncpl/currencies/getall":{"body":[{"name":"u.s. dollar","code":"usd","symbol":"$","separator":".","culture":"en-us"},{"name":"euro","code":"eur","symbol":"€","separator":",","culture":"en-us"},{"name":"british pound","code":"gbp","symbol":"£","separator":".","culture":"en-us"},{"name":"canadian dollars","code":"cad","symbol":"c$","separator":".","culture":"en-us"},{"name":"australian dollars","code":"aud","symbol":"a$","separator":".","culture":"en-us"},{"name":"indian rupees","code":"inr","symbol":"rs","separator":".","culture":"en-us"},{"name":"china yuan rmb","code":"cny","symbol":"¥","separator":".","culture":"en-us"}],"status":200,"statustext":"ok"},"/api/v1/ncpl/usermanagement/uiuser/getheaderuserinfo:\"{\\\"hidesupportpin\\\":true}\"":{"body":{"__ctxid":"012d1b52aa6b4c8dbf3138113dca2860","__iserror":true,"__errortype":"nc.platform.abstractions.unauthorizedexception","http_www_authenticate":"bearer","statuscode":"unauthorized","loglevel":3,"message":"","innerexception":null,"helplink":null,"source":"nc.security.middleware"},"status":401,"statustext":"unauthorized"},"/api/v1/ncpl/cart/user/getshoppingcartsummary:\"{\\\"finaltotalonly\\\":true}\"":{"body":null,"status":200,"statustext":"ok"}} support support centerstatus updatesknowledgebasesubmit ticketlive chatreport abuse sign in sign in forgot your password?sign upsign up your cart subtotal $0.00view cart usd u.s. dollareurobritish poundcanadian dollarsaustralian dollarsindian rupeeschina yuan rmbmore info → search domains domain name searchtransfernew tldspersonal domainmarketplacewhois lookuppremiumdnsfreedns hosting shared hostingwordpress hostingupdatereseller hostingvps hostingdedicated serversprivate email hostingmigrate to namecheapwebsite builder wordpressupdate managed wordpressupdateshared hostingmigrate wordpress appsnew marketplacecdnnewlogo makerbusiness card makernewid validationnewsubscriptions securitynew ssl certificateswhoisguardpremiumdnscdnnewvpnupdatedid validationnew2fapublic dns transfer to ustry me transfer domainsmigrate hostingmigrate wordpressmigrate email how to resource centerknowledgebaseblog account dashboardexpiring soondomain listproduct listprofile namecheap web hosting powering over 1.5 million websites of every size and budget namecheap believes in your right to put your ideas online. absolutely no hidden fees free hosting migrations 24/7 chat with experts explore more benefits online beginners start small and spend less. ideal for setting up your personal website, wordpress blog or business landing page, these hosting plans are simple and affordable. shared hosting plans: stellar stellar plus wordpress hosting plans: easywp starter email hosting plans: universal view plans small businesses get more power and control. ideal if you’re a solopreneur, e-commerce specialist, or web developer looking to add more power and speed to your company website or online business. shared hosting plans: stellar business reseller hosting plans: nebula wordpress hosting plans: easywp turbo email hosting plans: amplified view plans large businesses invest in maximum power. perfect for websites that demand the highest performance, enjoy all the flexibility and security with sole access to every resource. wordpress hosting plans: easywp supersonic vps hosting plans: quasar dedicated hosting plans: xeon e3-1230 v5 view plans choose your plan whether it’s for personal or business use, you need a web hosting service like namecheap's to get your ideas online. no matter which plan you choose, you can count on us for reliability, security, and a stress-free experience. shared hosting → all you need to build your online presence, the easy and affordable way. reseller hosting → be your own boss by reselling hosting plans to your clients. wordpress hosting → set up your website in less than 2 minutes with easywp. email hosting → promote your personal or professional brand with every email you send. vps hosting → virtual servers provide control and flexibility when your business needs it. dedicated hosting → top-tier performance to take your business to the next level. still not sure what to choose? follow our helpful guide to find exactly what you're looking for. find your hosting featured hosting plans meet the offers you can’t refuse. featured online beginners small businesses large businesses 50% off stellar shared hosting $ 1 .44 /mo $2.88 on first year get started host up to 3 websites with the cms of your choice. includes a free website builder and email solution. go to shared hosting → 50% off stellar business shared hosting $ 4 .44 /mo $8.88 on first year get started cloud power your business with unmetered bandwidth and free automatic backups. pci compliant to suit a variety of e-commerce solutions. go to shared hosting → 74% off easywp starter wordpress hosting $ 1 /mo $3.88 on first month get started powered by namecheap’s cloud platform, host your wordpress website with up to 50k visitors/mo and enjoy 10 gb storage. go to wordpress hosting → 100% off universal email hosting $ 0 /mo $11.88/yr on first 2 months get started domain-based email at a price that can’t be beat. includes all the tools you need to maximize your productivity. go to email hosting → 20% off quasar vps hosting $ 19 .88 /mo $24.88 up to 20% off get started linux-based virtual servers include full root access, giving you all the flexibility to run your business. go to vps hosting → 21% off xeon e3-1230 v5 dedicated hosting $ 48 .88 /mo $61.88 on first month get started invest in a physical server that’s 100% yours. includes full root access and all the customization possibilities. go to dedicated hosting → namecheap web hosting benefits never pay for hosting migration already have hosting and want to change your hosting provider? from start to finish, namecheap migration is free, fast, and easy. no surprises along the way. go easy on your wallet enjoy top-notch service at a fraction of the price you’d pay with competitors. with us you get all the hosting bells and whistles, without breaking the bank. expect & receive 24/7 support need some help? our dedicated team of hosting experts is standing by, ready to help via live chat. whether you’re just starting out or there’s an issue that needs fixing, we’re here for you—every step of the way. sit back & relax when you decide to host with us, you’re in the very best of hands. rest assured that your needs come first and trust that any changes made will benefit you (think top-tier security measures, stable backups, and uptime guarantees). sharedresellermanaged wordpressemailvpsdedicated servers featured why namecheap? privacy and security your online security and privacy come first at namecheap, and we will always support the rights of individuals and consumers online. it’s our mission to keep the internet open, free, and safe for everyone. your business online boost your business with industry-premium products and services, at prices that won’t break your budget. if it doesn’t provide you with a better internet experience, we simply don’t offer it. customer service you’re covered by a support team that’s renowned for being one of the most knowledgeable, friendly, and professional in the business. real people are ready to assist you with any issue, any time, 24/7. frequently asked questions what is web hosting? in order for your website to be seen online, you need a web hosting service. web hosting services differ by how the servers are set up (i.e. the space allocated) and the type of access that people (aka hosting customers) have to them. every website you’ve ever visited is hosted on a server. the main types of hosting are shared, dedicated, vps and reseller. learn more about web hosting → what is shared hosting? shared hosting is a type of web hosting where a single physical server hosts multiple websites. many users utilize the resources on a single server, which keeps the costs low. users each get a section of that server where they can host their website files. shared servers can host hundreds of users. each customer who uses the shared hosting server has access to such features as databases, monthly traffic reports, disk space, email accounts, ftp accounts, and other add-ons offered by the hosting provider. system resources are shared on-demand by users on the server, where each one gets a percentage of everything from ram and cpu as well as the single mysql, apache, and mail servers. what is wordpress hosting? managed wordpress hosting simply means that all technical aspects of running a wordpress website are taken care of (i.e. managed) by the hosting provider. namecheap’s managed wordpress hosting, easywp, also features a user-friendly dashboard that allows you to update, manage, and back up all of your future installations. this means that you don’t have to figure out how to use a control panel (cpanel or plesk) to manage your website. (as a friendly reminder, cpanel is a dashboard that is used to control your hosting environment.) what is vps hosting? vps hosting is a type of hosting that’s suited for those who have outgrown shared hosting. since multiple websites reside on a single web server with shared hosting, with no guarantee of resources, vps hosting allows for fewer users to share allocated resources of hard drive space, memory, and processor power. each user on a vps server has access to a virtual machine that runs on its own copy of an operating system (os). this lets vps hosting customers experience similar capabilities and performance levels of a dedicated server for their websites. what is reseller hosting? reseller hosting is a form of web hosting where the account owner has the ability to use their allotted hard drive space and bandwidth to host websites on behalf of third parties. in other words, the reseller purchases the hosting provider’s wholesale services and then sells them to their clients/customers for a profit. want more info? check out namecheap's “getting started” guide for reseller hosting. why should i use email hosting from namecheap? although some hosting providers offer free email, there’s often very few features and little-to-no support included. private email hosting from namecheap, however, features a premium interface with way more flexibility and cloud power to manage all your communication—both personal and professional. learn more about what we offer → what is your money-back guarantee? first-time easywp, vps, reseller and shared hosting customers are eligible for our 30-day money-back guarantee. dedicated server customers have a 7 days of refundable period. addons for hosting services and private email hosting are non-refundable. read more about our guarantee → does namecheap provide an uptime guarantee for hosting? whenever you purchase hosting from us, we offer you a monthly uptime guarantee. if for some reason we don’t deliver on this guarantee, which is determined by namecheap, you’ll be eligible for a prolonged service cycle—depending on your chosen hosting plan. learn more → what else is included with my namecheap hosting plan? your annual shared hosting plan comes with one domain name on offer. you have a wide range of top-level domain names (tlds) available with discounts up to 100% for the first year. you may check the offers here. for our reseller and vps hosting customers, we provide a free .website domain name for one year. (shared hosting also customers receive 50 free ssl certificates and free automatic backups.) for our vps and dedicated server customers, your server setup is completely taken care of. if you’re looking to build your website, our shared and reseller hosting customers are encouraged to take advantage of our free website builder tool as well as a control panel (cpanel). for private email hosting, you can enjoy a two-month trial for free. what namecheap hosting plans are suitable for my wordpress website? all of our hosting services, besides email hosting, work with your website. if you’re a beginner and you’re looking for the simplest way to host, we recommend easywp, which takes care of all the technical aspects, or shared hosting, which also features the free website builder tool. if you’re looking for hosting that scales to your business needs, a vps or dedicated server is the perfect choice. learn more about the types of web hosting → disclaimers our stellar plus plan offers unmetered disk space, intended only for your website. this space must be used in accordance with our acceptable use policy (aup), in particular paragraph 10, disk usage provision. only first-time shared hosting customers and vps hosting customers are eligible for our 30-day money-back guarantee. for example, if you previously created an account with namecheap, subsequently canceled and signed up again, unfortunately you are ineligible for a refund. the same scenario applies to those who have already opened a second namecheap account. please be aware that the sales of dedicated servers are only refundable within 7 days (not including addons and licenses). namecheap will provide a free domain name (first year only) with purchase of any annual shared hosting, new reseller hosting or vps hosting plan, as long as the domain name is not considered "premium." learn more about premium domain names → cloud storage is only available with stellar business plans with us datacenters. on your easywp website, you’ll be able to install all the plugins available for wordpress, with a few exceptions. since the easywp plugin already handles three different layers of advanced caching, you don’t need to install any caching plugins. please note that some untrusted plugins can’t be activated. check the full list. recommended visitor and page view limits are subject to our hosting acceptable use policy. universal plan customers are eligible to receive a 60-day free trial subscription (please note this only applies to one domain name). for amplified and absolute plans, the trial subscription counts only once for the namecheap account. trial subscriptions are considered a regular purchase so no introductory offers may be used for renewals after the trial period ends. depending on the server management plan, additional software and resources chosen for vps and dedicated servers may incur a higher fee. namecheap does not charge an additional fee to transfer an existing website and/or a dedicated server or vps. please note that a cpanel to cpanel transfer is fully supported while other transfer options may need to be checked by our technical team. our 50% discount for stellar plans only applies to first-year purchases of yearly plans. this discount offer does not apply to renewal purchases. related articles what is web hosting? → the types of namecheap web hosting → how to host your website → how to connect your domain name to web hosting → how to build your first website → {} need help? we're always here for you. chat with a live person {} we make registering, hosting, and managing domains for yourself or others easy and affordable, because the internet needs people. learn more about namecheap read our blog join our newsletter & marketing communication we'll send you news and offers. join domains domain name search transfer new tlds personal domain marketplace whois lookup premiumdns freedns hosting shared hosting wordpress hostingupdate reseller hosting vps hosting dedicated servers private email hosting migrate to namecheap website builder wordpressupdate shared hosting wordpress hostingupdate migrate wordpress security whoisguard premiumdns vpnupdated 2fa public dns transfer to ustry me transfer domains migrate hosting migrate wordpress migrate email ssl certificates comodo organization validation domain validation extended validation single domain wildcard multi-domain resellers ssl certificates reseller hosting promos resource center support support center status updates knowledgebase submit ticket live chat report abuse careers affiliates send us feedback the entirety of this site is protected by copyright © 2001–2020 namecheap.com. terms and conditions privacy policy udrp we support electronic frontier foundation fight for the future we are an icann accredited registrar. serving customers since 2001. payment options american express bitcoin mastercard paypal visa discover comodo secure android app on google play ios app store