skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about cheat sheets it’s probably safe to say that i’m well known for my love of cheat sheets, especially keyboard shortcuts and anything to do with social and web development. well i thought i’d create a page where you can find every single one of them. i will also eventually add quick links to the pdf print ready versions of each cheat sheet so it’s easier for you guys to find and download. i have split the cheat sheets up into different categories so you can find what you’re after quicker and easier. social & images cheat sheets social media images sizes cheat sheet (2018) image size cheat sheet for all the major social media platforms like facebook, twitter, instagram, tumblr, linkedin, youtube, pinterest, google+ and ello. read more all the image formats cheat sheet (2016) know exactly what image format to use for web use, print, social platforms, logos and much more with this handy cheat sheet. available to download as a pdf. read more social media keyboard shortcuts save yourself loads of time every day by speeding up your social network browsing with some lightning fast keyboard shortcuts! read more the perfect twitter profile cheat sheet this infographic / cheat sheet gives some practical advice on creating the perfect twitter profile page. read more facebook image sizes cheat sheet know exactly what image sizes to use across facebook with this very useful cheat sheet for facebook image sizes. read more the perfect instagram profile cheat sheet this infographic / cheat sheet gives some practical advice on creating the perfect instagram profile page. read more adobe creative suite cheat sheets adobe cc illustrator keyboard cheat sheet if you liked my previous article on adobe photoshop keyboard shortcuts, you’ll probably find this post useful. here are a wide array of adobe illustrator shortcuts that can help you to improve your productivity. read more download adobe cc indesign keyboard shortcuts here’s dozens of time-saving keyboard shortcuts for adobe indesign cc. extensive up-to-date reference lists of keyboard shortcuts/hotkeys for windows, mac, and linux. large shortcut database with common applications. read more adobe cc fireworks keyboard cheat sheet i’m always looking for ways to speed up processes when it comes to building websites, creating web graphics and general web dev. to do this is by learning as many of the quick keyboard short-cuts for adobe fireworks. read more download adobe creative cloud cheat sheet 2017 know all the main keyboard shortcuts for the most popular programs on adobe creative cloud. we have the keyboard shortcuts for all the major adobe apps. read more adobe cc photoshop keyboard shortcuts photoshop’s strengths is that it makes extensive use of keyboard shortcuts; but, there are so many to remember. so, i’ve created a this “cheat sheet”. read more download adobe cc web developers cheat sheet in this cheat sheet you will find the latest keyboard shortcuts for adobe photoshop, adobe muse, dreamweaver and more. ideal for web developers and designers. read more adobe cc cheat sheet for photographers know all the main keyboard shortcuts for the most popular photography programs on adobe creative cloud. photoshop and lightroom covered. read more download adobe acrobat keyboard shortcuts here’s my adobe acrobat dc keyboard shortcuts in full. speed up your acrobat tasks with this handy cheat sheet. download my print ready pdf. read more adobe cc premiere cheat sheet this is a list of the keyboard shortcuts, features and techniques that i use most frequently when i am editing my product review videos for youtube. read more adobe bridge cc cheat sheet adobe bridge is an awesome tool and is much loved by designers, photographers and creatives a like. this cheat sheet has quick and easy keyboard shortcuts to help you whizz through jobs like a pro. read more adobe cc after effects keyboard shortcuts one of my fav all time apps. get all the latest keyboard shortcuts for adobe cc after effects with this extremely handy cheat sheet that you can now download as a print ready pdf. read more adobe cc lightroom keyboard shortcuts with this set of keyboard shortcuts for lightroom, it will no doubt speed up tasks that would normally take double or treble the time to do with standard mouse / menu command access. read more adobe muse cc cheat sheet my adobe muse keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet has every single keyboard shortcuts, to help you speed up your web building tasks. download my print ready pdf. read more adobe cc audtion shortcuts check out my audition keyboard shortcuts graphic. it’s designed to speed up your music / sound production by introducing you to the awesome world of shortcuts. enjoy! read more adobe cc flash keyboard shortcuts with this set of adobe cc flash keyboard shortcuts, it will no doubt speed up tasks that would normally take double or treble the time to do with standard mouse / menu command access. read more web development & coding cheat sheets blogging platforms comparison chart this blogging platforms comparison chart will help you quickly decide which is the best blogging platform for your new blog or website. read more the wordpress mega cheat sheet graphic here’s a list of handy keyboard shortcuts & useful php snippets for wordpress. a shortcut is a key combination that links up with a specific commands. read more cms comparison chart for 2017 infographic my cms comparison infographic, quickly outlines the pros and cons of each of the three biggest cmss out there. wordpress, drupal and joomla. read more css 3 mega cheat sheet a very useful resource for web designers of all levels. you can use this handy cheat sheet to use the new css 3 features in some modern browsers. read more html5 mega cheat sheet i’ve put together this cheat sheet for all you front end types. so whether you are a web design novice or a seasoned pro, this will hopefully come in use for your next project. read more jquery cheat sheet my cms comparison infographic, quickly outlines the pros and cons of each of the three biggest cmss out there. wordpress, drupal and joomla. read more which programming language to learn an awesome resource to help people decide which coding language to learn. whether you’re looking to build an app for a hobby, improve your career prospects or have a great startup idea learning to code is going to be an important skill to develop. read more wordpress website build check list if you’re just about to embark on your own wordpress project or thinking about starting up your own blog, then this wordpress checklist will come in very handy! it can be daunting building your own wordpress website or blog, so this cheat will certainly be able to help. read more best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub