flash sale 30-days money-back guarantee 99.9% uptime 24/7 customer supportview offer up to 28 % off flash sale web hosting plans + free domain when you complete your order in ... 02 days 11 hours 17 minutes 10 seconds get my 28 off! up to 28 % off flash sale 1-click installer php 7.4 support optimized for wordpressview offer up to 28 % off flash sale: windows vps hosting from $26.00 /month!get started × windows vps server make your cloud computing project take off. it has never been easier to have your windows server in the cloud get started choose your windows vps plan 30-day money-back guarantee memory cores storage bandwidth price 2 gb 4 cores 50 gb 4000 gb save 28% $ 36.00 /mo $ 26.00 /mo add to cart 4 gb 4 cores 100 gb 5000 gb save 24% $ 82.00 /mo $ 62.00 /mo add to cart 8 gb 4 cores 200 gb 6000 gb save 20% $ 150.00 /mo $ 120.00 /mo add to cart 16 gb 4 cores 400 gb 7000 gb save 17% $ 300.00 /mo $ 250.00 /mo add to cart cores memory storage bandwidth 4 cores 2 gb 50 gb 4000 gb save 28% $ 36.00 /mo $ 26.00 /mo add to cart cores memory storage bandwidth 4 cores 4 gb 100 gb 5000 gb save 24% $ 82.00 /mo $ 62.00 /mo add to cart cores memory storage bandwidth 4 cores 8 gb 200 gb 6000 gb save 20% $ 150.00 /mo $ 120.00 /mo add to cart cores memory storage bandwidth 4 cores 16 gb 400 gb 7000 gb save 17% $ 300.00 /mo $ 250.00 /mo add to cart all plans include these features windows server 2012 layout increase your satisfaction when building a website online by using the latest version of windows server. the layout is easy to adopt while it has the same interface as windows 8. drivers are more compatible, faster installation of applications, so your work would be effortless. dedicated live chat support dedicated in-house top-level live chat support is ready to bring you a help 24/7. even for unmanaged windows vps hosting services, our dedicated customer success team will help you to solve any issues. ultimate hardware & ssd space feel the top-level performance and lightning speed of all your websites. you will make the right choice by choosing windows vps and getting the best possible result with ultimate hardware and huge ssd space. dedicated ip with ipv6 get premium features with our cheap vps hosting! one of many premium features is a dedicated ip address. even the cheapest vps hosting plan is fully packed with dedicated ipv6 internet protocol. high-level enterprise data backups your data safety is our main goal! making windows virtual private server backups easy as 1-2-3. now you can backup and restore all your folders, files and databases with a few easy clicks. easy-to-use vps hosting control managing your virtual private server has never been so easy. thanks to the vps control panel, now you can manage and control your virtual server simply with a few clicks. with no worries you can backup and restore vps container via cpanel too. get started simplify and integrate your cloud computing project when using a windows server system everything becomes much easier, from the graphical interface, installation of applications and even the compatibility of drivers. user adaptation to the windows vps environment is also instant because the windows server 2012 layout is windows-based for the desktop. our vps is ideal for those who need applications in .asp, .net, vb, and other languages that do not run on linux, but only in microsoft environments, which require reliability and superior performance. in addition, because it is the most widespread operating system in the world, databases, management systems (erp), games and so many other software are developed exclusively for windows, which prevents use in the linux environment. ideal solutions for you didn’t find what you were looking for? web hosting $0.99/mo cloud hosting $7.45/mo vps hosting $3.95/mo wordpress hosting $0.99/mo domains $0.99/year email hosting $0.99/mo 30-day money-back guarantee if you’re not 100% satisfied with hostinger, we’ll refund your payment. no hassle, no risk. get startedlearn more windows vps hosting: frequently asked questions (faq) find answers to some frequently asked questions about windows vps hosting. what is virtual private server (vps)? vps acts differently than a shared hosting, which has the nature of sharing the same environment, so aspects of one hosting may interfere with the other. in vps, resources are completely dedicated to user activity. you do not share disk space, processing, ram, among others. this server is privately turned virtual, created from a single powerful server. what is the difference between a windows vps and linux vps? the windows vps comes out ahead in the usability issues, since it has a friendly graphic interface very similar to windows that you already know. windows server also has more compatibility with software developed for windows. vps linux has the advantage of speed, performance, stability, a gigantic developer base that shares its experiences on linux, among others. what are the good reasons to choose a windows vps? with vps windows you will have a range of options brought by vps, in addition to the windows server interface very similar to windows, which, as is known, is the most common in the world. this will bring you ease of use and compatibility with software. in addition, it will reduce costs compared to a dedicated server and allow you to put multiple information in one place with your vps. what are the special aspects of windows server? very good for those who are not accustomed to linux code lines. with windows server you use the same windows desktop interface. in addition, it is a great alternative to games that require a windows game server and for those who will use applications facing windows. what languages are used in windows vps applications? several languages are used such as .asp classic, asp.net, mssql (microsoft sql server), ms access (microsoft access), net framework, visual basic development, c #, among others. what version of windows server is used in windows vps? the version used is windows server 2012 r2, based on windows 8. it is an ideal type of service to be used as a server, by reducing costs compared to a dedicated server. can i make upgrade from my windows server package if i find it necessary? yes, at any time you can change your package through your control panel, if the limits of each plan no longer suit your needs. what kind of support do i get with my windows vps? our customer success team helps you to put your windows vps in the air, and you can chat through our chat or tickets 24/7. how to release extra concurrent accesses in vps? for more autonomy for administrators, purchase the extra simultaneous access packages now available for windows vps. become a part of hostinger now! get started now hosting web hosting vps hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting email hosting cms hosting ecommerce hosting free website hosting website builder cheap web hosting buy hosting windows vps minecraft server hosting web design services domains domain checker domain transfer free domain xyz domain cheap ssl certificate buy domain name whois checker domain name search 99 cent domains free ssl certificate information server status affiliate program payment methods wall of love reviews student discount pricing youtube creators our mission is to make life easier for website developers and their customers. we do it by offering easy to use, fast and reliable web hosting services. and more help report abuse knowledge base tutorials blog company about hostinger contact us our technology career legal privacy policy terms of service © 2004-2020 hostinger.com - premium web hosting, cloud, vps & domain registration services. prices are listed without vat