skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about cheat sheets 2020 social media image sizes cheat sheet by jamie social media platforms are forever changing the image sizes and formats, so to keep you all updated i have re-created the 2016 social media image sizes cheat sheet and updated it to 2017. the need for strong social media presence has soared in 2016 and will only increase in prominence in 2017. this is why you really need to keep up to speed with your business… categories social, cheat sheets, photography 2020 social media keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet by jamie save yourself loads of time every day by speeding up your social network browsing with some lightning fast keyboard shortcuts! last year we put together a long list of keyboard shortcuts for all the major social media platforms. this year we have done the same and made it even bigger with the addition of ello … read more2020 social media keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet categories cheat sheets, social the 100 oldest dot com domain names by jamie nearly twenty-five years ago, on march 15, 1985, a computer manufacturer registered a domain by the name of symbolics.com, and it was the first ever to appear on the internet, according to the forrester. that name isn’t the only one you’ll find on that list. as early as january 1986, xerox.com became the seventh domain … read morethe 100 oldest dot com domain names categories cheat sheets gmail keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet (windows & mac) 2019 version by jamie gmail has 900 million active users. nine-hundred-million… that’s a hell of a lot of users. the average worker spends over two hours per day in email. that’s a hell of a lot of time being spent by people in managing their emails everyday across the world. so wouldn’t it be great if there was a … read moregmail keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet (windows & mac) 2019 version categories cheat sheets 2020 wordpress website checklist for launching a new website by jamie if you’re just about to embark on your own wordpress project or thinking about starting up your own blog, then this wordpress checklist will come in very handy!it can be daunting building your own wordpress website or blog. that’s why we have produced an easy to understand step by step checklist of all the tasks … read more2020 wordpress website checklist for launching a new website categories cheat sheets, wordpress 2018 adobe lightroom keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet by jamie last updated 23rd july 2018. (new version for 2018 ) after many request through email and on social networks, i have finally been able to find time to create the adobe lightroom keyboard shortcuts infographic, that so many people asked for. i had no idea that adobe lightroom was so popular, especially among all you … read more2018 adobe lightroom keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet categories cheat sheets adobe cc photographers keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet 2018 by jamie following on from a number of requests i have received about my adobe cheat sheets i have created an up to date all in one adobe cheat sheet specifically for photographers. below you will find the ultimate keyboard shortcut cheat sheet for photoshop and lightroom. if you use either of these programs, learning the keyboard … read moreadobe cc photographers keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet 2018 categories cheat sheets 2018 adobe dreamweaver keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet by jamie using dreamweaver is so much faster when you know the shortcuts. you can use these keyboard shortcuts in design, split, and code views to quickly create documents, perform editing tasks, hide and show workspace features, apply simple formatting, edit code, make selections, access dreamweaver help, preview pages in live view and in a browser, and … read more2018 adobe dreamweaver keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet categories cheat sheets 2018 adobe illustrator keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet by jamie if you liked my previous article on adobe photoshop keyboard shortcuts, you’ll probably find this post useful. here are a wide array of adobe illustrator shortcuts that can help you to improve your productivity. i use most of them (in fact, i can’t work without them) regularly. most of the keyboard shortcuts listed here aren’t … read more2018 adobe illustrator keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet categories cheat sheets 2018 adobe photoshop keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet by jamie one of adobe photoshop’s strengths is that it makes extensive use of keyboard shortcuts; but, there are so many that it’s difficult to remember them all. so, i’ve created a “cheat sheet” that’ll make it really easy for you to remember them the next time you are using the software. i have also created an … read more2018 adobe photoshop keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet categories cheat sheets the ultimate 2019 adobe creative cloud keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet by jamie in 2015, i created the ultimate adobe creative cloud keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet, where i listed all of the most useful keyboard shortcuts for all of the most popular adobe creative cloud apps such as photoshop, illustrator and fireworks. this year i have made the cheat sheet even more comprehensive and better by updating each of … read morethe ultimate 2019 adobe creative cloud keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet categories cheat sheets the mega css3 cheat sheet infographic by jamie last month we released a huge html5 cheat sheet that lists all of the currently supported html 5 tags, their descriptions, their attributes and their support in html 4. you may also enjoy our jquery cheat sheet too. in the comments of that post we received requests for a similar css 3 cheat sheet that … read morethe mega css3 cheat sheet infographic categories cheat sheets the jquery mega cheat sheet by jamie as part of our huge series of cheat sheets to help creatives and web developers speed up their daily tasks and spend more time doing other things, we have created a jquery mega cheet sheet. feel free to share this graphic with work colleagues and anyone you think may find this cheat sheet useful. download … read morethe jquery mega cheat sheet categories cheat sheets the perfect twitter profile cheat sheet by jamie twitter has over 300 million users who are engaging with brands every single day. this huge adoption of twitter is a great marketing opportunity since it is now part of your customers’ native behaviour. if you are a small or large business who can tell your story in an engaging way then you need to … read morethe perfect twitter profile cheat sheet categories cheat sheets how to get a free business email account and set it up in 5 minutes. by jamie business owners know how important one email can be. to a customer, knowing a business’ email address can be the difference between making a sale or getting a bad review. in addition, businesses use emails to communicate to one another, both within the organization and to clients. using a professional business email address is vital … read morehow to get a free business email account and set it up in 5 minutes. categories cheat sheets post navigation older posts 1 2 3 next → best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub