skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about christmas mince pies recipe – 9p each by ricky willis | last updated 26th november 2019 | this post may contain affiliate links this budget mince pie recipe will leave you wanting for more. have fun with the family making christmas mince pies with this kid-friendly recipe first published on 5 december 2013, but updated for 2019 pricing is it christmas without mince pies? of course it is, but they do taste good. when we popped into the… more sticky roast lamb with chilli chutney glaze by naomi willis | last updated 1st october 2019 | this post may contain affiliate links if you’re looking for a show stopper for easter sunday dinner, or you want to try something different to your usual sunday roast, then this roast leg of lamb recipe is what you’re after. the chilli glaze makes the lamb so juicy and tender while giving it a sticky and warming flavour. we have constant… more moroccan spiced lamb filo pie recipe by naomi willis | last updated 5th march 2019 | this post may contain affiliate links this quick moroccan style lamb filo pie recipe makes an easy midweek meal. using minced lamb, it’s tasty as well as easy on your food budget. written in collaboration with lamb. try it love it it’s british pie week! to celebrate, we’ve been thinking about one of our favourite pies. a savoury pie is tasty… more easy leftover lamb and spinach frittata recipe by naomi willis | last updated 24th january 2019 | this post may contain affiliate links this is a simple lamb and spinach frittata recipe to use up your leftovers and reduce food waste, and the lamb frittata is perfect for popping in your lunchbox for work. a way to boost your savings is to use up leftovers, instead of buying things from the supermarket especially for your lunch box. and… more easy lamb slider burgers with beetroot mayo recipe by naomi willis | last updated 17th december 2018 | this post may contain affiliate links there’s always a time of the year when we seem to have people at our home more than others. it’s usually in the summer and in the run-up to christmas. during both times, we have more food in than usual as there will be lots of hungry people. however, i don’t like to have to… more quick and easy pita bread recipe by naomi willis | last updated 30th october 2018 | this post may contain affiliate links if you’re looking to cut down on eating white loaf bread, or just fancy something different from a sandwich or wrap, pita bread is the option. making pita bread is such an easy thing to do as well. it’s so easy you can just let the kids get on (apart from the oven bit). it doesn’t… more 1 2 3 … 11 next page » contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about