login cheezburger search latest posts cheezcake channels cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation cheezcake login submit parenting cheezcake favorite funniest parenting tweets of the week (march 15, 2020) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email every week we bring you the funniest parenting tweets we saw on twitter because nothing is funnier than frustrated parents. enjoy view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny parents parenting funny tweets cheezcake favorite funny tweets from parents amid coronavirus confusion share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email coronavirus is causing life as we know it to come to a standstill. toilet paper is sold out everywhere, hand sanitizer is a commodity and hanging out with other humans is basically a big no-no. kids aren't just at risk of spreading the virus, but also misinformation about the pandemic too, as playground chatter becomes fear-mongering rumors. not only that but with the imminent threat of schools closing, kids could be stuck at home indefinitely and as you might have guessed, most parents aren't too happy about it. here are some tweets from parents that show just how sick of coronavirus they are. view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter kids parenting funny tweets parenting tweets coronavirus cheezcake favorite parents share questions from their toddlers that even google couldn't answer share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email "but why?" is a question that all parents dread. usually, it's because they don't know the answers and don't want their kid to know, but sometimes it's because there is just no answer. reddit asked parents of the internet for the "why?" questions their toddlers have thrown at them that even google couldn't answer and some of them are truly unanswerable. check them out below. view list repost - vote - recaption comments question toddler kids toddlers askreddit parenting why parenting fail google parents cheezcake favorite collection of tweets about the endless joys of 7-year-old's share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email a very specific age that comes with a higher level of sass, more intriguing questions, and overall, just a bunch of madness. luckily for us, parents document these precious moments and share them with the world via twitter. view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter kids parenting 7-year-olds lol tweets funny tweets parents cheezcake favorite baby fever: simple reminders of what you're in for (tweets) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email if you're a woman, sometimes your ovaries will scream "want!" at you, when you come across a cute baby. that is known as baby fever. however, sometimes, you're not ready for such a thing and need to be reminded of that. so, we're here to save you. you're quite welcome. here are 19 tweets that will help you remember that kids are not always as magical as instagram portrays them to constantly be! here is the real, unspeakable side to parenting. view list repost - vote - recaption comments babies twitter kids baby fever parenting lol tweets funny tweets parents cheezcake favorite funniest parenting tweets of the week (february 2nd, 2020) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email every week we bring you the funniest parenting tweets we saw on twitter because nothing is funnier than frustrated parents. enjoy view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny parents parenting funny tweets parenting tweets cheezcake favorite parents tweet their thoughts about sesame street share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email sesame street is a children's television series filled with great educational messages. and even though it debuted over 50 years ago, kids everywhere (and parents) still watch the beloved children's show. and even though parents do watch it with their kids, many will say it is absolutely the ban of their existence. with those high-pitched character voices, songs that feel like someone is drilling into your ear-hole, and just nonstop confusing backstories. luckily, the parents of today have twitter to express their true feelings. (sorry parents of yesterday, we truly do feel your pain) view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter kids parenting lol tweets sesame street funny tweets parenting tweets parents cheezcake favorite parents and netflix: a true love story (22 tweets) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email parents -- they're are just like us! err, just with kids.. and when it comes to netflix, there might not be a more loving and supporting netflix crowd than parents. many parents have admitted to the fact that netflix does play a large role in their daily life -- or at the very least have tweeted about it. here are 22 tweets from parents on their undying love for netflix (and honestly, same): view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter kids relatable netflix and chill parenting lol tweets funny tweets netflix parents cheezcake favorite parents tweet the blatant lies they tell their kids (21 tweets) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email honesty is an important virtue that a majority of parents try to instill on their young ones, so they can grow to be well-rounded individuals. not these parents, of course. just kidding, we know a little white lie never hurt anyone! in fact, some lies can end up benefiting the kid and their poor, exhausted parents. so what's the harm? plus, it's kind of freakin' hilarious. here is a collection of ridiculous lies that parents have convinced their kids were truths: view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter kids lies parenting lol tweets funny tweets funny parents cheezcake favorite funniest parenting tweets of the week (january 26, 2020) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email every week we bring you the funniest parenting tweets we saw on twitter because nothing is funnier than frustrated parents. enjoy! view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny parents parenting funny tweets cheezcake favorite funniest parenting tweets of the week (january 12th, 2020) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email every week we bring you the funniest parenting tweets we saw on twitter because nothing is funnier than frustrated parents. enjoy! view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny parents parenting parenting tweets cheezcake favorite funniest parenting tweets of the week (december 29, 2019) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email every week we bring you the funniest parenting tweets we saw on twitter because nothing is funnier than frustrated parents. enjoy! view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny kids funny parents parenting funny tweets parenting tweets cheezcake favorite on edge parents who are not feeling the 'magic' of christmas (tweets) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email "sorry kids, but santa said you can only ask for toys that are amazon prime eligible." here are some brutally funny tweets from parents who are seriously over the holidays view list repost - vote - recaption comments parenting funny tweets christmas tweets funny parens cheezcake favorite funniest parenting tweets of the week (december 22, 2019) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email every week we bring you the funniest parenting tweets we saw on twitter because nothing is funnier than frustrated parents. enjoy! view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny kids funny parents parenting parenting tweets cheezcake favorite uhhh share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via ineedanapandacat repost - vote - recaption guess i'll just stare at the wall then. comments yikes kids awkward friends funny memes ocean yelling parenting shark oof parents cheezcake favorite funniest parenting tweets of the week (november 17, 2019) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email every week we bring you the funniest parenting tweets we saw on twitter because nothing is funnier than frustrated parents. enjoy! view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny kids funny parents parenting funny tweets parenting tweets upvoted 20 funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week 15 bad home-haircuts happening around the world 12 fifty tweets from exhausted parents trying to stay sane 9 live-streaming pasta-making classes from 84-year-old grandma in italy 9 redditor's reveal their self-improvement journeys during covid-19 lockdown hot today 1 fifty tweets from exhausted parents trying to stay sane 2 funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week 3 master photoshop legend james fridman is at it again 4 this week's best 'women roasting men' tweets - (march 25, 2020) 5 instagram of illogical excuses kids use for not eating their food follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter