login cheezburger search latest posts cheezcake channels cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation cheezcake login submit relationships cheezcake favorite funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email now, more than ever, relationships are on a test. who will survive a few weeks of quarantine together? and what about all those singles? here are some funny tweets guaranteed to make you laugh, cry or both. just in case you have missed our previous list, here's a link. view list repost - vote - recaption comments marriage relationships funny tweets coronavirus dating cheezcake favorite woman raises charity by creating website for coronavirus relationship dramas share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email there is nothing that tests the make-or-break of a relationship more than being forced to indefinite co-quarantine. whether it's your partner, your parents or your roommates, endless weeks of being stuck in a living space with someone will inevitably cause drama of some kind. meg zukin, a social media editor at variety is self-quarantining with her husband and they began to get on each other's nerves after only a few days. it inspired her to write a tweet asking the internet for any and all relationship dramas that they were experiencing in the time of coronavirus. she received so many responses, that she compiled them onto a google doc, charging $1 to read them, which would be donated to food banks and charities across the country. she raised more than $5,000 in two days and then decided to turn the project into a free and public website and is still taking donations of any amount. here are some of the funniest submissions she has received, which will make you feel less alone in the quarantine struggle. view list repost - vote - recaption comments charity twitter drama relationships tweets website covid-19 coronavirus cheezcake favorite love and relationship memes in the time of coronavirus share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we're living through a future history lesson right now... in 50 years, possibly even less, they'll be studying the covid-19 era in classrooms, analyzing our behavior during this difficult time. and one of the things they'll look at is the way love and relationships went down during quarantine. these memes are a snapshot of the upside-down coronavirus world we find ourselves in, showing how the pandemic is making and breaking relationships. view list repost - vote - recaption comments sex funny memes relationships memes tweets love funny tweets hookup covid-19 coronavirus relationship tweets cheezcake favorite short and funny letters of disappointment from girls to their exes: instagram account share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ever wish you could have said how you really felt to the idiot you dated? well now you can, with this brilliant instagram account - @totheguysivedated. it's basically a submission of all the ugly truths that women wanted to say to the losers they were in a relationship with, or briefly dated and it's hilarious. check out the harsh truths these women have to say to their romantic mistakes. view list repost - vote - recaption comments guys disappointed date letters instagram relationships exes funny cheezcake favorite married couple of 40 years wear matching outfits every day share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email talk about couple goals... a japanese couple has been married for 40 years and wears matching outfits every day and it's the cutest thing ever. tsuyoshi and tomi seki have nearly 850,000 followers on instagram and have gone viral. here are some of their outfits. remember, couples who match together stay together! view list repost - vote - recaption comments outfit wholesome pictures instagram cute relationships matching clothes married couple cheezcake favorite pink instagram account with "feminine and funny" content share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email every now and again, you need an overdose of relatable pink, wholesome and honest content on your instagram feed. if that's your thing, turn to @girl, the instagram account that is full of just that. with 7.4 million followers, the page, according to its bio, is full of "feminine and funny" content, which will make you feel less alone in today's female struggles. view list repost - vote - recaption comments instagram relationships memes inspirational feminine funny women cheezcake favorite female artist of the week: instagram cartoonist of millennial "life and stuff" share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the key to a successful instagram account is creating relatable content and that's exactly what arianna margulis, the artist and creator behind butlikemaybe has done. boasting 234k followers, margulis creates "toons about life and stuff" that all go back to her experience of working in fashion, dating and partying in new york and los angeles. her cartoons are relatable, humorous and have been made into a book that so many women will fall in love with. check out some of her creations below. view list repost - vote - recaption comments single instagram satire relationships funny women couple life but like maybe cartoons artist cheezcake favorite funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email guaranteed to make you laugh, cry or both. just in case you have missed our previous list, here's a link. view list repost - vote - recaption comments marriage relationships funny tweets relationship tweets dating cheezcake favorite delusional girl tries to ruin best friend's relationship (reddit thread) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email in a now deleted post on reddit's r/relatioship_advice, a 22-year-old woman tried to convince the world (and probably herself) that her best friend should be with her... and not his current girlfriend. after sharing her side of the story, redditors encouraged her to send the link to this best friend of hers. and, well, she did. the respond back? awkward. awkward. awkward. we understand why this post was deleted. view list repost - vote - recaption comments relationship advice cringe awkward relationships jealousy reddit cheezcake favorite tweets that show the realities of marriage share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email marriage is a beautiful thing, especially at the beginning when you're all loved up. but once the honeymoon phase is over, real life happens and the standard arguments over what to order in a restaurant and whose turn it is to wash up become pretty common. all couples go through some rough patches, it's part of life. but the key to weathering the tough times and having a happy and successful marriage is to find the humor in your daily lives together and make fun of your idiosyncrasies. here are some all too relatable tweets showing us how couples get through their every-day spats, proving that married life isn't always all it's cracked up to be. if you like these, check out these funny and sometimes aggravatingly real marriage tweets and these amusing marriage tweets. view list repost - vote - recaption comments marriage tweets argument reality funny tweets couple wife relationships husband cheezcake favorite funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email guaranteed to make you laugh, cry or both. just in case you have missed our previous list, here's a link. view list repost - vote - recaption comments marriage relationships funny tweets relationship tweets dating cheezcake favorite weekly top shower thoughts: relationship edition share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email here are this week's top shower thoughts, but with a twist. welcome to the greatest philosophical insights of the average joe all about relationships. they'll make you question everything you thought you knew about love. and in case you missed last week's top shower thoughts, here they are. view list repost - vote - recaption comments top rated thoughts askreddit shower thoughts relationships philosophy love reddit best of week bossy favorite bossy talks about their worst dates share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via cheezburger repost - vote - recaption ever been on such a horrible date that all you can really do is run for the hills and laugh it off? we've all been there. sometimes dates just don't go as smoothly as we would hope and in the end... there just very very funny stories to tell. comments fails fail relationships lol funny women dating cheezcake favorite important lessons about love we learned from "the office" share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email happy valentine's day! today we celebrate love in all forms and it's a beautiful thing. when it comes to the love department, one source of inspiration i like to turn to is my favorite sitcom, "the office". not only is it is brilliantly genius, but a lesser-known fact about the show is how many pearls of wisdom on love and relationships it actually contains. here are some of the most profound quotes from michael scott and his crew that teach us all the important lessons we need to know about love. oh and if you love the dunder mifflin crew as much as me, check out our previous post on couples from "the office" who inspire true love? view list repost - vote - recaption comments the office romance relationships inspirational michael scott love valentines day cheezcake favorite funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email guaranteed to make you laugh, cry or both. just in case you have missed our previous list, here's a link. view list repost - vote - recaption comments marriage relationships funny tweets relationship tweets dating cheezcake favorite throwback to the most iconic tv couples from the '90s share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email relationships aren't what they used to be. somehow tv love seemed purer back in the '90s; something that was longer-lasting. i guess that's because there wasn't tinder back then to screw everything up. as valentine's day approaches, let's use this throwback thursday to cast our minds back to a time when sitcoms showed true and lasting love in all its glory. view list repost - vote - recaption comments throwback sitcom relationships tv couples 90s love couple valentines day upvoted 20 funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week 15 bad home-haircuts happening around the world 12 fifty tweets from exhausted parents trying to stay sane 9 live-streaming pasta-making classes from 84-year-old grandma in italy 9 redditor's reveal their self-improvement journeys during covid-19 lockdown hot today 1 fifty tweets from exhausted parents trying to stay sane 2 instagram of illogical excuses kids use for not eating their food 3 top weekly shower thoughts: food edition 4 funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week 5 master photoshop legend james fridman is at it again follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter