login cheezburger search latest posts cheezcake channels cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation cheezcake login submit cheezcake fifty tweets from exhausted parents trying to stay sane cheezcake funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week cheezcake top weekly shower thoughts: food edition cheezcake favorite master photoshop legend james fridman is at it again share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email our favorite photoshop trolling legend, james fridman has updated his portfolio with some more hilarious works of art, aka, taking the piss out of people's photoshop requests. this is what happens when you ask the wrong guy for help; or when he takes your requests as literally as he possibly could. it's genius, it's humor, it's talent and we can't get enough! view list repost - vote - recaption comments james fridman master trolling legend photoshop bad photoshop talent troll photo funny tweets funny cheezcake favorite how to find a husband: 1950s style share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email in 2012, the invention of tinder changed the landscape of love, dating, and relationships as we know it. gone are the days where flirting required real-life, face-to-face interaction and welcome to the age of virtual romance, where your next hook up is only one swipe away. as a woman who uses dating apps, i often feel like a small disposable fish in an endlessly big pond of younger, better looking and more heavily photoshopped fish and it's quite daunting. but was courtship really that much easier before online dating took over, or have women struggled to find good-quality men since the dawn of time? it seems so; a magazine article titled '129 ways to get a husband' was discovered in a 1958 edition of american magazine mccall's. in what seems to be an attempt to help its readers find a husband, it lists 129 bizarre, sexist and possibly politically incorrect tips to point them in the right direction. i've decided to look into each one and see if they would work today and whether or not things have really changed all that much in dating over the past 62 years. welcome to your weekly tip on 'how to find a husband: 1950s style'. view list repost - vote - recaption comments 1950s tinder find relevant magazine dating apps online dating offensive hudband cheezcake favorite bad home-haircuts happening around the world share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email being stuck at home right now means that we don't have access to many of the services that we're dependent on, like schools, gyms and beauty salons. and while homeschooling, doing home workouts and painting your own nails aren't ideal, they're still manageable for the hopefully, short term future. but some services, such as getting a haircut, really need to be left to the professionals because they're just to easy to mess up. these people learned that lesson the hard way, and are probably regretting their diy chops. view list repost - vote - recaption comments hair coronavirus memes twitter fail haircut bad haircut covid-19 coronavirus funny world diy cheezcake favorite redditor's reveal their self-improvement journeys during covid-19 lockdown share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email an askreddit thread calling people to reveal how they are making themselves better during the covid-19 outbreak has revealed the self-improvement journeys of thousands of people. being inlockdown and practicing social distancing means that people have more time to dedicate to the things they never usually have the time to do. from learning new languages to learning how to french braid, or even stop drinking, here are some truly inspirational ways that people are turning something awful into something good. what are you doing to better yourself during this time? view list repost - vote - recaption comments lockdown isolation better askreddit self improvement quarantine reddit covid-19 coronavirus cheezcake favorite live-streaming pasta-making classes from 84-year-old grandma in italy share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email i am a pasta lover. personally, i consider it the food of the gods and i eat it at least three times a week, in all its glorious variations. sadly, pasta has become somewhat of a commodity nowadays, since supermarket shelves are being cleared out due to panic-buying. the silver lining? now is the perfect time to try and make your own, especially with all this extra time on our hands. yes, you could follow a recipe book, but what if you could take a live-streaming video class from an 84-year-old italian nonna, using a generations-old recipe? well luckily for you, you can! nonna nerina (nonna means grandma in italian), who usually hosts pasta-cooking classes in her home is now running them online due to the coronavirus containment measures in italy and it's wonderful. forget your online fitness classes; this is much more fun! here's how it works... view list repost - vote - recaption comments italian class online italy classes instagram pasta grandma facebook live stream quarantine covid-19 coronavirus cheezcake favorite mega-binge: life is beautiful (50 wholesome stories) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's important now more than ever to remind ourselves that life is beautiful. when you're constantly bombarded with horrific news stories, it's hard to see the bright side of things and our loss in the faith of humanity grows stronger. it's important to remember that there's still good in this world...and quite a lot of it. here is the wholesome-binge you need to help lift your spirits, make your heart smile and remind you that there are good people, good moments in this crazy world. hopefully, this list inspires you to pay it forward and keep the goodness in the world alive. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww wholesome people kindness uplifting tweets love stories beautiful cheezcake favorite this week's best 'women roasting men' tweets - (march 25, 2020) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email twitter has become a breeding ground for roasting anyone and everyone. when it comes to women roasting men, it is a true battle of the sexes and the female wrath is unleashed in all its force. the result? pure comedy. here is a selection of this week's funniest tweets of women roasting men and of course, the main theme is all things coronavirus. if you love these, here are some more tweets of women dragging men to within an inch of their lives. view list repost - vote - recaption comments battle of the sexes roasting men funny memes funny tweets men vs women women cheezcake favorite our users gave us their quarantine nicknames share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email there are lots of covid-19 challenges circulating the internet to keep people busy during lockdown. one of them had people sharing their quarantine nickname, which is done by combining how you feel, plus the last thing you ate out of your cupboard. we posted this challenge and hundreds of our users responded by posting their quarantine nickname too. here are some of the funniest responses from our users. view list repost - vote - recaption comments cupboard twitter isolation users facebook food covid-19 coronavirus nickname cheezcake favorite baker creates beautiful cakes with drake lyrics on top share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email everyone loves cake (right?). not everyone loves drake (for some reason). but what happens when you're a genius and combine the two — surely there's nothing not to love! that's exactly what @joythebaker did and her instagram account drake on a cake is full of her beautifully decorated cakes each with a drake lyric on top. the self-taught professional baker, food photographer and cookbook author combined two of her favorite things and all i can say is, i'm grateful for it. check out some of her incredible creations below and when you're done, here are some more decadent delights. view list repost - vote - recaption comments cake cooking drake lyrics baking instagram baker decoration amazing decorate drake memes cheezcake favorite "i'll be here for you (in quarantine too)" - a friends theme song parody share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via michael rose // cheezburger repost - vote - recaption we know everyone can use a little pick-me-up and what better way than dancing it out with that one fine-tune we can always count on... we'll be there for you! through it all! and that is exactly what michael and his fellow bandmates (amitai, omer, and vova) did. they took the current situation and although each one is apart, they came together to create a parody of the well-known friends theme song :) ---- credits: video by: michael rose instagram: @thisismichaelrose // facebook -------- the band: keyboards, eternal youth and charm - amitai kurtz instagram: @amitai_kurtz// facebook -- airdrum champion of the world - omer pank instagram: @omerpank // facebook -- bass, alcogel spray, and synchronized swimming - vova gershenzon instagram: @bigphatgorilla// facebook -- enjoy! comments music song parody friends parody lol music video funny cheezcake favorite people of tinder attempting to benefit from lockdown and hookup share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the rules of quarantine and social distancing are simple: stay at home, do not see anyone and definitely do not hook up with people on dating apps. ok, the last one isn't an official rule, but it's kind of obvious. for some people, however, it doesn't seem so obvious, and despite the world being in lockdown, there is some folk out there still trying to carry on as normal and get laid, using tinder and other apps. while we're all for having virtual facetime dates, for the time being, meeting up with someone in real life is risky for you, for them and for other vulnerable people. can love (and sex) wait until coronavirus leaves us? apparently not for these people... view list repost - vote - recaption comments dating fails tinder pandemic desperate covid-19 coronavirus stupid dating twitter dating apps cheezcake favorite people's far-from-glamorous wfh setups share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email before corona-gate, everyone dreamed of working from home in their pajamas. traveling into the office every day was nothing other than a nuisance; a means to an end. but now that we're being forced to stay home, we miss the days where we had a real office, with a real desk and space for our computers. turns out, working from home isn't all it's cracked up to be, especially if you're not set up for it, or living in a studio apartment. people are having to be creative with their workspace and are finding comfort in knowing they're not alone in their struggles. a twitter thread is encouraging people to share their makeshift wfh setups and some of them are super creative! check them out below. view list repost - vote - recaption comments working from home twitter isolation creative corona wfh tweets funny tweets creativity in the workplace covid-19 coronavirus cheezcake favorite instagram of illogical excuses kids use for not eating their food share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email as if parenting wasn't hard enough, throw the world into lockdown and it's a whole different ballgame. kids are cooped up inside with nowhere to let out their energy, which means tantrums are more likely to happen, especially when it comes to food. children are picky eaters at the best of times. you know the drill... they ask you to make them something, and once it's ready after you've slaved away at it, they're no longer in the mood for it. why? who knows. my kid can't eat this is an instagram account that collects pictures of perfectly good food submitted by parents, along with the reasons their kids came up with for why it was not edible. all of them, of course, totally ridiculous. if they're not too triggering for you, take a look at some of our favorite ones below and see if you can relate! view list repost - vote - recaption comments kids instagram eat kids these days illogical picky food funny parents children cheezcake favorite #getinfluenced: coronavirus quarantine edition share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email good morning followers. it hasn't been long since my last post, but i wanted to check in with you and make sure you are all surviving in this crazy time. as for me... well, i have one question for you. what. the. f*ck is. going. on?! view list repost - vote - recaption comments blog instagram corona influencer quarantine survive covid-19 coronavirus cheezcake favorite ellen degeneres still keeping her fans entertained in isolation share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email while most of the world is isolating at home (well, they should be anyway. if you're not, please do), celebrities are no different. and while it's probably not very difficult to self-isolate in a massive mansion with a pool and a gym, it seems that all the material wealth in the world isn't enough to stop them from getting bored, just like the rest of us. ellen degeneres is posting videos on her instagram account showing us all the ways she's trying to keep herself busy while she isolates herself at home and they're the perfect mix of hilarious and relatable (sort of). thanks, ellen for always keeping us entertained, no matter the situation. view list repost - vote - recaption comments isolation instagram ellen celeb busy fans ellen degeneres cheezcake favorite twitter users share their quarantine nicknames share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email people are doing whatever it takes to keep them distracted and occupied during their corona quarantine. some people are doing home workouts, some people are finally getting all their paperwork in order. and some are just trying to stay sane while they attempt to homeschool their kids. whatever you're doing, you can spare a few seconds to work out your quarantine nickname. how do you do this? well, according to elan gale, it's "how you feel right now + the last thing you ate out of the cupboard." here are some of the funniest responses to his tweet. mine is "fed up oreo ice cream". what's yours? view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter isolation users quarantine funny tweets food covid-19 coronavirus nickname upvoted 20 funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week 15 bad home-haircuts happening around the world 12 fifty tweets from exhausted parents trying to stay sane 9 live-streaming pasta-making classes from 84-year-old grandma in italy 9 redditor's reveal their self-improvement journeys during covid-19 lockdown hot today 1 fifty tweets from exhausted parents trying to stay sane 2 funniest relationship tweets we scrolled past this week 3 master photoshop legend james fridman is at it again 4 this week's best 'women roasting men' tweets - (march 25, 2020) 5 instagram of illogical excuses kids use for not eating their food follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter