skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes chicago sun-times homepage cst-inline-color-logo friday, march 27, 2020 one of editor & publisher’s ‘10 that do it right 2020’ log in try 1 month for $1 subscribe chicago sun-times homepage cst-inline-color-logo cst_ follow chicago sun-times online: follow chicago sun-times on twitter follow chicago sun-times on facebook follow chicago sun-times on youtube follow chicago sun-times on instagram log in try 1 month for $1 subscribe site search search search chicago sun-times main menu news coronavirus sports politics columnists entertainment classifieds newsletters business commentary death notices doing well election results fbi files podcasts shop local taste the grid well new subscriptions e-paper manage your home delivery account manage your tv weekly account contact customer service sun-times careers & internships search for a job order back issues & photo reprints contact us site map more news metro/state crime homicide tracker the watchdogs nation/world casinos & gambling obituaries marijuana education health transportation environment immigration lgbtq la voz all news coronavirus free coverage daily newsletter map of illinois cases all coronavirus sports bears cubs white sox sports saturday high school sports bulls blackhawks wolves outdoors sky / wnba colleges sports media all sports politics fran spielman show city hall springfield washington elections the ben joravsky show politifact all politics columnists entertainment movies and tv murals and mosaics dear abby horoscopes lifestyles music theater chicago-pedia stages all entertainment and culture classifieds newsletters business chicago enterprise hardest-working voices consumer affairs home drive working all business commentary city at the crossroads editorials other views letters to the editor commentary death notices doing well election results fbi files podcasts shop local taste the grid well new subscriptions e-paper manage your home delivery account manage your tv weekly account contact customer service sun-times careers & internships search for a job order back issues & photo reprints contact us site map ✕ live updates get the latest news about coronavirus in illinois × filed under: coronavirus 10 more chicago police officers test positive for covid-19 (live updates) here’s the day’s latest news about the novel coronavirus covid-19 and its ripple effects in chicago and illinois. by sun-times staff filed under: marijuana legalizing pot deliveries gains momentum during coronavirus crisis rep. sonya harper introduced legislation last month that would allow cannabis dispensaries to deliver weed. now, she’s calling on gov. j.b. pritzker to take immediate action. by tom schuba filed under: chicago mayor lori lightfoot guarding the lakefront is now a meme by alice bazerghi filed under: coronavirus undocumented immigrants face coronavirus, looming jobs crisis with no real safety net by carlos ballesteros filed under: coronavirus a way out of peru for stranded chicago mother and son by stefano esposito filed under: politics here’s what the coronavirus stimulus package will mean for illinois by lynn sweet filed under: business auto repair shops feeling coronavirus crunch by mitch dudek filed under: the fbi files fbi files: milwaukee mob boss frank balistrieri had close ties to chicago outfit by sun-times staff filed under: consumer affairs consumer watchdog loses power to recover money for victims after accused scammer fights back in court — and wins by stephanie zimmermann filed under: coronavirus: essential news this graph tracks the latest illinois coronavirus cases by caroline hurley commentary the opinions in and around chicago that inform, analyze, hold power accountable and entertain. all columns filed under: laura washington this mayor does not play the whining and sulking have ensued since mayor lightfoot shut down the lakefront and parks. but with more than 1,100 confirmed coronavirus cases, the mayor is trying to protect us. by laura washington mar 27, 2020, 4:02pm cdt filed under: ed zotti how much longer will we be inside — and then what happens? gov. j.b. pritzker’s stay-at-home order ends on tuesday, april 7, but he’s likely to extend it as the coronavirus outbreak continues. just how long? read here. by ed zotti mar 27, 2020, 3:52pm cdt filed under: rick morrissey why cram more baseball games into a sawed-off season? you know the rea$on an abbreviated schedule makes more sense. one game a day per team. but the more games played, the more money owners and players will make. by rick morrissey mar 27, 2020, 1:23pm cdt filed under: steve greenberg longtime bears season-ticket holder: ‘i felt like i was being robbed’ at deadline to re-up fifty percent of nfl teams have pushed back payment deadlines as a result of the coronavirus outbreak. it was the right thing to do. life is stressful enough these days without pressure from teams such as the bears that stuck to their original deadlines. by steve greenberg mar 26, 2020, 3:51pm cdt all columns politics filed under: news aurora mayor, police chief test positive for covid-19 — but city says both well enough to work from home mayor richard irvin and police chief kristen ziman were tested march 21. "while i’ve experienced some serious flu-like symptoms this week, i’m feeling much better and looking forward to making a full recovery," the mayor of illinois’ second largest city said. filed under: news no masking pain coronavirus will inflict on state finances – but no one knows ‘exactly how bad it will be’ the coronavirus pandemic has thrown state government into flux, as the legislative session has been put on pause. and now state officials are scrambling – largely by phone – to try and figure out how to manage illinois’ already precarious financial situation. filed under: news foxx accused by opponent of ‘half-baked’ approach to releasing jail inmates republican nominee for state’s attorney pat o’brien says foxx’s approach to new arrests is unsafe. instead, new arrestees should be given a court date to appear two months from now to "redirect them from committing more low-level or higher-level crimes." filed under: the watchdogs small suburban park project draws big-time players swept up in federal corruption probe one contractor overseeing improvements to summit’s legion park is believed to be a federal informant. another was named in a search warrant. filed under: news cook county delays collecting booze, tobacco, other taxes to give struggling businesses ‘some breathing room’ the county’s home rule taxes — which include the alcoholic beverage, amusement, tobacco, gasoline and hotel accommodations taxes — have been deferred for the february and march tax periods until may. no penalties or interest will be applied during the extension period. sports filed under: cubs why cram more baseball games into a sawed-off season? you know the rea$on an abbreviated schedule makes more sense. one game a day per team. but the more games played, the more money owners and players will make. filed under: bears bears tight end jimmy graham vows he’s not washed up, believes he can ‘dominate’ at 33, graham has shown signs of decline. but the bears signed him to a two-year, $16 million contract and he aims to prove he’s worth it. filed under: coronavirus project cure to host equipment drive at united center with essential medical supplies running low due to the coronavirus outbreak, project cure, with the support of illinois sens. dick durbin and tammy duckworth, announced friday its plans to host an equipment drive at the united center this weekend. filed under: bulls player breakdowns: bulls guard denzel valentine is a rebel with a cause with the nba season still up in the air, the sun-times will look at each bulls player, the season they had, and the upcoming seasons they could have, with the bulls or elsewhere. next up is valentine. filed under: bears longtime bears season-ticket holder: ‘i felt like i was being robbed’ at deadline to re-up fifty percent of nfl teams have pushed back payment deadlines as a result of the coronavirus outbreak. it was the right thing to do. life is stressful enough these days without pressure from teams such as the bears that stuck to their original deadlines. entertainment and culture filed under: music ‘baby shark’ reworks hit song for the coronavirus outbreak; announces hand-washing challenge pinkfong’s "baby shark" — that jingle earworm that every toddler seems to know — has been reworked to teach good hygiene to combat covid-19. filed under: music country singer joe diffie tests positive for coronavirus the grand ole opry member and grammy winner is known for his hits in the ‘90s including "honky tonk attitude," "prop me up beside the jukebox" and "john deere green." filed under: movies and tv matt damon, laurence fishburne, stars of ‘contagion’ reunite for coronavirus psas damon, who in the film played a character who was immune to the movie’s hypothetical virus, stresses listening to experts and staying 6 feet apart. filed under: music chicago-based deeper prowls, growls on stellar album ‘auto-pain’ there’s a deftly controlled pace that impresses throughout the album, a standout 12-track release that borrows its ethos from aldous huxley’s "brave new world." filed under: murals and mosaics couple has been bringing murals to rogers park, evanston for 15 years lea pinsky and dustin harris have been painting murals around chicago and evanston since 2005, adding 24 pieces to the city’s public art landscape. all latest stories filed under: coronavirus 12 nurses at uic hospital contract covid-19; union blames lack of protective equipment one nurse was allegedly scolded by a manager for wearing a mask in a room when a covid-19 patient was having a breathing tube inserted, according to the illinois nurses association. by david struett march 27 filed under: columnists it’s not safe to go to church right now. period don’t stick your hands in a fire just because you believe god has the power to heal you. by john w. fountain march 27 filed under: music country singer joe diffie tests positive for coronavirus the grand ole opry member and grammy winner is known for his hits in the ‘90s including "honky tonk attitude," "prop me up beside the jukebox" and "john deere green." by associated press march 27 filed under: music chicago-based deeper prowls, growls on stellar album ‘auto-pain’ there’s a deftly controlled pace that impresses throughout the album, a standout 12-track release that borrows its ethos from aldous huxley’s "brave new world." by associated press march 27 filed under: politics aurora mayor, police chief test positive for covid-19 — but city says both well enough to work from home mayor richard irvin and police chief kristen ziman were tested march 21. "while i’ve experienced some serious flu-like symptoms this week, i’m feeling much better and looking forward to making a full recovery," the mayor of illinois’ second largest city said. by sun-times wire march 27 filed under: columnists a tale of two legislators both have a strong belief in hope during a time of anguish. by rich miller march 27 filed under: letters to the editor chicago school officials must take bold steps to help families during the coronavirus pandemic lifting the ban on rent control, a no-evictions policy and hiring parents to clean schools are among the steps that the board of education can support. by letters to the editor march 27 filed under: fran spielman show fran spielman interviews republican candidate for cook county state’s attorney pat o’brien by sun-times staff march 27 filed under: coronavirus federal public defender discouraged by resistance to inmate release as virus spreads in u.s. prison system some rulings blocking the release of federal inmates are ‘short-sighted,’ defender says; two prison staff members who tested positive work at the mcc, according to a source. by jon seidel march 27 filed under: columnists this mayor does not play the whining and sulking have ensued since mayor lightfoot shut down the lakefront and parks. but with more than 1,100 confirmed coronavirus cases, the mayor is trying to protect us. by laura washington march 27 filed under: city at the crossroads how much longer will we be inside — and then what happens? gov. j.b. pritzker’s stay-at-home order ends on tuesday, april 7, but he’s likely to extend it as the coronavirus outbreak continues. just how long? read here. by ed zotti march 27 filed under: coronavirus city creates grants to help residents with rent, mortgage payments lightfoot sets aside $2 million from an affordable housing fund to help those whose jobs have been affected by the coronavirus. by david roeder and fran spielman march 27 filed under: coronavirus trump signs $2.2 trillion coronavirus stimulus package into law trump thanked members of both parties for putting americans "first" as he signed the bill in the oval office, flanked only by republican lawmakers. by lynn sweet march 27 filed under: englewood missing englewood man, 71, was last seen headed to jesse brown va hospital: police everett myrick was last seen leaving the 6300 block of south elizabeth street. by sun-times wire march 27 filed under: news trump issues order compelling general motors to manufacture ventilators experts say the u.s. is hundreds of thousands of breathing machines short of what it likely will need to treat a rapidly rising number of covid-19 patients. by associated press march 27 filed under: crime postal worker shot, wounded while delivering mail in brighton park: police the employee was delivering mail in the 2900 block of west 40th street. by david struett march 27 most read postal worker shot, wounded while delivering mail in brighton park: police the employee was delivering mail in the 2900 block of west 40th street. sister of first coronavirus victim in illinois dies from disease wanda bailey was the sister of patricia frieson, a retired nurse who died march 16 after testing positive for covid-19 just a day earlier. live map of illinois coronavirus cases track the latest confirmed covid-19 cases across the state with this state map, updated daily with public health department data. o’hare airport employee carjacked at gunpoint in cargo area: police the carjacking happened in the swiss cargo area located between two runways. 10 more chicago police officers test positive for covid-19 (live updates) here’s the day’s latest news about the novel coronavirus covid-19 and its ripple effects in chicago and illinois. cst_ sign up for the newsletter breaking news know about breaking news as it happens. we follow the stories and update you as they develop. email (required) by signing up, you agree to our privacy notice and european users agree to the data transfer policy. subscribe latest videos play little village dress shop switches to making face masks during coronavirus shutdown in the past week, novias davila has made and given away over 1,000 face masks to help with shortages as the number of coronavirus cases rises daily. play got coronavirus questions? we brought in an expert to answer them live watch our interview with dr. robert murphy, the executive director of the institute for global health at northwestern university. play how to buy legal weed like a pro cannabis consultant mike malcolm answers all your burning questions, like can you use a topical cream if you need to take a drug test? and how fast do edibles hit? play we asked chicago: how are you adjusting to social distancing? chicagoans from different industries detail how they are coping with social distancing measures. play blagojevich, calling himself ‘freed political prisoner,’ praises trump, vows to reform ‘broken’ criminal justice system "i saw what they do to families because i saw it happen to my own," rod blagojevich said. more videos filed under: coronavirus lightfoot: stay-at-home order likely to last ‘deep into april’ mayor says the final call will be made by gov. j.b. pritzker. but his staff is "looking at similar data to what we are." by fran spielman march 27 filed under: coronavirus ‘nothing set in stone’ for stay-at-home order as illinois tallies 8 more deaths, pritzker says health officials also announced another eight deaths from the coronavirus, bringing the state’s total to 34. friday marked the largest number of people killed in the state, with an additional 488 cases bringing the illinois total to 3,026 confirmed cases. by tina sfondeles march 27 filed under: sports you know the chicago quarantine is getting to bears fans when they start missing jay cutler a compilation video circulating on twitter of cutler’s greatest moves has some bears fans missing their former, previously reviled quarterback. by alison martin march 27 filed under: politics foxx accused by opponent of ‘half-baked’ approach to releasing jail inmates republican nominee for state’s attorney pat o’brien says foxx’s approach to new arrests is unsafe. instead, new arrestees should be given a court date to appear two months from now to "redirect them from committing more low-level or higher-level crimes." by fran spielman march 27 filed under: crime man sprays lighter fluid in officer’s eyes after starting fire in elgin business: prosecutors the man then allegedly tried to set fire to a squad car, prosecutors said. by david struett march 27 filed under: cubs why cram more baseball games into a sawed-off season? you know the rea$on an abbreviated schedule makes more sense. one game a day per team. but the more games played, the more money owners and players will make. by rick morrissey march 27 filed under: sports players keep service time in deal; draft may trim players agreed to a deal with major league baseball that would preserve service time in the event this season is canceled because of the covid-19 pandemic, but left open details of what a configured schedule would look like. by ronald blum | associated press march 27 filed under: coronavirus project cure to host equipment drive at united center with essential medical supplies running low due to the coronavirus outbreak, project cure, with the support of illinois sens. dick durbin and tammy duckworth, announced friday its plans to host an equipment drive at the united center this weekend. by madeline kenney march 27 filed under: weather thunderstorms expected friday evening in chicago, severe storms possible saturday there’s also a risk of large hail and flooding friday evening in the suburbs, south of i-80. by david struett march 27 filed under: sports trout season: forest preserves of cook county postpones opener as have all others the forest preserves of cook county have postponed the opener for trout season, as have all others around chicago fishing. by dale bowman march 27 filed under: movies and tv matt damon, laurence fishburne, stars of ‘contagion’ reunite for coronavirus psas damon, who in the film played a character who was immune to the movie’s hypothetical virus, stresses listening to experts and staying 6 feet apart. by associated press march 27 filed under: entertainment and culture ‘baby shark’ reworks hit song for the coronavirus outbreak; announces hand-washing challenge pinkfong’s "baby shark" — that jingle earworm that every toddler seems to know — has been reworked to teach good hygiene to combat covid-19. by associated press march 27 filed under: murals and mosaics couple has been bringing murals to rogers park, evanston for 15 years lea pinsky and dustin harris have been painting murals around chicago and evanston since 2005, adding 24 pieces to the city’s public art landscape. by mary norkol march 27 filed under: crime joliet woman charged with battery of senior citizen, stealing money during card game victoria cholke allegedly took the money and hit the victim when the person asked for their money back, police said. by sun-times wire march 27 filed under: bulls player breakdowns: bulls guard denzel valentine is a rebel with a cause with the nba season still up in the air, the sun-times will look at each bulls player, the season they had, and the upcoming seasons they could have, with the bulls or elsewhere. next up is valentine. by joe cowley march 27 filed under: this week in history the week in history: from one chicagoan to another 2,000 chicagoans have been helping those in need during the coronavirus pandemic. in the midst of the great depression, another chicagoan helped feed 2,000 jobless and homeless men. by alison martin march 27 pagination more stories cst_ chorus terms of use privacy notice cookie policy do not sell my info accessibility platform status contact us customer support masthead send us a tip terms of sale author login