about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ chickpea noodle soup 236 comments jump to recipe here’s my meatless version of classic chicken noodle soup, made with chickpeas instead of chicken! this soup is exactly what i want to eat when i’m feeling under the weather or craving some familiar, comfort food flavors. it seems like everyone has caught at least one cold this winter season, me included. as a longtime vegetarian, i haven’t eaten chicken noodle soup in years. every time i get sick, i wonder why i don’t have a restorative soup recipe, but don’t have the energy to figure it out. eventually, i get well again and move on to more exciting meals. so it goes. we finally broke the cycle and i’m excited to share this recipe with you today. it’s the perfect meal to bring to your friend who isn’t feeling well, and it’s simple enough to pull together if you’re not feeling well yourself. vegan noodle soup notes i caught a winter cold a couple months ago and was feeling quite sorry for myself as i sniffled on the couch. my fella insisted on making me a vegetable noodle soup. he winged it, like he does, and it turned out really well, like his meals generally do. he’s a great cook. his version didn’t include chickpeas, just a generous amount of vegetables, egg noodles (classic), and one surprise ingredient—curry powder. it was subtle, but interesting, warming and comforting at the same time. i loved it and made sure to include some in my chickpea version. i also added some turmeric, which you will find in some chicken noodle soup recipes because it offers some golden yellow coloring. turmeric is one of the main ingredients in curry powder and chickpeas are a staple in indian cuisine, so you can see how this soup concept might not be so crazy idea after all. that said, you can leave out the curry powder if you’re suspicious or need ultra-basic noodle soup for someone who’s really unwell. i added chickpeas for some added protein, fiber and texture. plus, “chickpea noodle soup” has a fun plant-based ring to it. whether you’re a meatless eater or not, i think you’ll really enjoy this alternative to traditional chicken noodle soup. please let me know how you like this noodle soup recipe in the comments! i hope you it’s exactly what you need. craving more soup to get you through the winter? here are a few more favorites on cookie and kate: classic minestrone soup the best lentil soup creamy roasted cauliflower soup redeeming green soup with lemon and cayenne print chickpea noodle soup author: cookie and kate prep time: 15 minutes cook time: 25 minutes total time: 40 minutes yield: 6 bowls 1x category: soup method: stovetop cuisine: vegan ★★★★★ 4.9 from 106 reviews this noodle soup is made with chickpeas instead of chicken! it’s the perfect meatless soup when you’re feeling ill or craving familiar comfort food flavors. recipe yields 6 big bowls of soup. scale 1x2x3x ingredients 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 medium yellow onion, chopped 1 cup thinly sliced celery (about 2 long stalks) 1 cup carrots, peeled and cut into thin rounds (2 medium or 4 small) ¼ teaspoon salt, more to taste ½ teaspoon ground turmeric ½ teaspoon curry powder (optional) 1 bay leaf 1 can chickpeas, rinsed and drained, or 1 ½ cups cooked chickpeas 8 ounces spiral pasta* 2 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley, plus extra for garnish 2 quarts (8 cups/64 ounces) vegetable broth freshly ground black pepper, to taste instructions warm the olive oil in a large dutch oven or soup pot over medium heat. once the oil is shimmering, add the onion, celery, carrots and ¼ teaspoon salt. cook, stirring often, until the onions are turning translucent and softening, about 5 to 7 minutes. add the turmeric and curry powder, if using, and stir constantly for about 30 seconds to wake up their flavors. add the bay leaf, chickpeas, pasta, parsley and broth. raise the heat to high and bring the mixture to a simmer, then reduce heat to medium-low and continue simmering until the pasta is pleasantly tender, about 10 to 20 minutes. remove the pot from the heat and season generously with pepper. add more salt, to taste, if necessary (i usually add another ¼ teaspoon). serve while hot, with some extra parsley and pepper on top as garnish. once cool, store the soup in the refrigerator, covered, for up to 5 days. notes *pasta options: i’ve used whole grain noodles (delallo fusilli) and gluten free noodles (see below) with success. egg noodles are a classic choice. orzo would also be nice. make it gluten free: substitute gluten-free noodles. i had good luck with ancient harvest rotini (a corn and quinoa blend). change it up: omit the curry powder for more mild, traditional flavor—but it’s subtle as is. you could also substitute great northern beans for the chickpeas. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes classic minestrone soup seriously good vegetable soup chickpea salad with carrots and dill share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories budget friendly, dairy free, fall, gluten free, nut free, pack for lunch, pantry friendly, recipes, soups and stews, soy free, spring, tomato free, vegan, winter ▸ ingredients carrots, celery, chickpeas, parsley, pasta ↢ newer foolproof shakshuka older ↣ baked ziti with roasted vegetables by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) patricia december 30, 2019 oh my heaven! made this soup and added soy curls hydrated in a stock made with “not chicken flavor base” made by better than bullion. the recipe yielded deep flavors and an aromatic broth with a substantial homemade feel. my non-vegetarian husband loved it so much i had to pry his fingers off the leftovers so i could freeze them for a busy night dinner! an absolute favorite in our house now. thank you and happy new year 2020! reply amber eallonardo december 30, 2019 this soup sounds amazing! i can’t wait to make it tomorrow for a family party. what dutch oven do you recommend? reply kate december 31, 2019 i love my le creuset! see my kitchen essentials here: https://cookieandkate.com/healthy-kitchen-essentials/ reply mike january 2, 2020 made this, and it’s very good. used 6 cups broth the first day. re-heating the next day added a half cup broth. might add some chili flakes next time. thank you for posting. ★★★★★ reply kate january 9, 2020 you’re welcome, mike! reply cathy january 3, 2020 love this soup! i made it for myself when i was sick about a month ago, and again tonight for my sick boyfriend. i keep sautéed onion, celery, and carrot frozen in batches throughout the winter, which makes this soup extremely easy to make (especially when i’m the one under the weather!) all i have to do is thaw it and throw in the ingredients, very little prep. thank you for another good one, kate! ★★★★★ reply kate january 5, 2020 i hope it helps! thanks for sharing, cathy. reply cherie yanek january 5, 2020 yum! i was a bit unsure if i felt like turmeric and curry powder tonight, but it’s not like my typical indian cooking w those spices. really reminded me more of a chicken noodle soup. my husband was sick and was in love with this soup and had three bowls. oh, and make sure you double the recipe. i’m freezing a bunch. i didn’t bring the noodles to a boil and then simmer 20-30 min – only brought to a bowl and then my noodles were al dente. i’ll be making again for sure! ★★★★★ reply kate january 5, 2020 i hope he feels better soon, cherie! reply anthony january 6, 2020 great soup! i gave it some bite by crushing up four cloves of garlic and adding it toward the end of the sauteeing. btw, i read that allowing crushed/chopped garlic to sit for 10 minutes or so maximizes the health benefits; i.e., nothing is lost in the cooking. happy 2020 to one and all! ★★★★★ reply kate january 6, 2020 thanks for sharing, anthony! reply cindy muskat january 13, 2020 i made this tonight and it was amazing! i also added half a fresh lemon squeezed in a the end. is there a “pin” option on this? ★★★★★ reply kate january 16, 2020 hi cindy! yes, you should be able to hover over an image to pin. or you can find the recipe on my pinterest page too. reply jennifer dunn january 15, 2020 i made this last evening for my husband (not vegetarian) and me (vegan) he enjoyed it as much as i did, and said that if he were sick and had a hankering for chicken noodle soup, he’d happily eat this soup instead! i was definitely impressed by how much the flavor mimicked that of chicken noodle (from what i remember). i used the curry and turmeric called for; for the bouillon i chose better than bouillon’s vegan, low sodium seasoned vegetable base. ★★★★ reply kate january 16, 2020 i’m glad this did the trick, jennifer! reply biz january 20, 2020 i made this tonight and it is soooo good! i wasn’t sure about the turmeric and curry but they add just the right amount of savory flavor. this is definitely a keeper!!!! ★★★★★ reply kate january 23, 2020 great to hear, biz! thank you for sharing. reply jen dillahunty january 20, 2020 i have been very excited to try this and made it for dinner tonight. i followed your instructions including using curry powder and used whole wheat pasta spirals. totally floored by how fragrant, comforting and delicious this soup is. as a non-meat eater, i do crave chicken noodle soup and this more than satisfied. in fact, it’s better. thank you, kate!!! ★★★★★ reply alan january 20, 2020 enjoying the recipe; especially the flavor the curry provides. thank you. ★★★★ reply alex january 21, 2020 i’ve made this soup so many times because it’s so simple and soooo satisfying. have you ever used bouillon in place of broth? i may try that next time. ★★★★★ reply kate january 22, 2020 hi alex, i don’t tend to use those. but if it works for you, that’s great! reply patrick january 23, 2020 in the nutrition section, it says “regular vegetable broth (not low sodium)”. is there a problem with low sodium version? i want to try this recipe but i’m concern about the sodium level (42% in 1 bowl) reply kate january 23, 2020 hi patrick, you can use low sodium if you like. i prefer the other version. reply joanne january 23, 2020 you did it again kate! thank you for another delicious recipe i will cook again and again. huge bonus is that it can absolutely be made on a weeknight. if you are debating about this recipe, don’t! you will not be disappointed. ★★★★★ reply kate january 23, 2020 thank you, joanne! reply kathryn hunter kassapides january 30, 2020 best chicken noodle soup ever! ★★★★★ reply kate february 6, 2020 thank you, kathryn! reply emily january 31, 2020 omg….this is delicious. i needed something to help this cold i’m fighting and this was so easy, i used chickpea pasta so we will see how the leftovers are. i added some lemon juice and a dash of cayenne pepper. i didn’t have celery or bay leaf so i didn’t use that. but this tastes so comforting and similar to chicken noodle soup. i’ll never buy store-bought soup again ★★★★★ reply kate february 3, 2020 i hope you feel better soon! i’m glad this soup was able to help some, emily. thank you for your review! reply elsa february 10, 2020 made this recipe for my daughter who is vegan and not only did she love this recipe but our whole household did! ★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 that’s great, elsa! thanks for your review. reply julie february 16, 2020 i have been making this soup weekly for over a month now. i even brought it up to a country chalet for a pot-luck winter country weekend and it was a smash! another soup you knocked out of the park and that has become a healthy and delicious family favorite. thank you, kate. ★★★★★ reply claudia calhoun february 17, 2020 kate, this is a wonderful soup on a cold winter day… fragrant and delicious. i’m late to the comments so didn’t read all 228 to find the answer to my question. can this soup be frozen successfully? thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate february 21, 2020 hi claudia! i think it can. the noodles may absorb more water as they reheat. typically dairy-free soups (like this one) tend to do well. reply michelle february 18, 2020 this soup is amazing!!!!! so glad i found this!! ★★★★★ reply christine february 22, 2020 i made this soup after searching for a good chickpea noodle soup. boy were we not disappointed. my son said it tasted better than “real chicken noodle soup” and both my kids asked to add it to the regular rotation! i thought curry was an interesting choice (we love curry dishes) but i wanted to make the recipe as-is the first time and it was amazing! i didn’t change a thing and it was perfect! thanks for such a good meal! ★★★★★ reply steph o february 23, 2020 hi kate! delicious recipe! absolutely loved it! i actually mixed in a bit of quinoa as well…and it really made the soup sing! everyone in my house (all carnivores except for little old me!) loved this soup! warmed our souls during winter in japan :) thanks kate! ★★★★★ reply carol march 16, 2020 this is delicious! everyone in the family loved it. next time, i’ll try adding garlic and another 2 cups of broth. i’d like it a little soupier. ★★★★★ reply rose galiger march 21, 2020 love this recipe! i am making it for the second time and even my husband who can be fussy about trying a new recipe really loved the soup! also made your minestrone which was also great!!! ★★★★★ reply griselle march 26, 2020 i enjoyed this soup so much!! the curry and turmeric powder were such a great add-on. i didn’t have any chickpeas so i made it into an alphabet soup. thank you for the wonderful recipe. i froze the majority of the soup to keep me stocked. ★★★★★ reply « older comments hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}