home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog my best friend’s wedding may 5, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment what a fun weekend! it was my best friend's wedding in chicago and we had such a fun time celebrating. friday night was the rehearsal dinner at pizano's pizza in chi-town. it was really nice and of course the chicago pizza was delish. one of the coolest parts of the wedding weekend was that the groom is from germany. he had about 30-40 people fly in from all around the … [read more...] a bachelorette party & building my shoulders march 25, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment happy tuesday everyone!! i hope everyone's having a great start to their week. it's march 25th and it's snowing here...whaaaaaaaaaaat? so strange and i don't like it one bit. i hope you're ready for the most random post in the world. it's a collection of what i've been up to lately and what clothes i've been digging lately too :) check out this new outfit that i got … [read more...] help me decide which lace dress to wear march 7, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment so i'm going to my best friend's bachelorette party next weekend and i'd love to hear which dress you'd wear. i got both but just can't decide. the bachelorette party is in chicago so who knows how cold it will really be. dress a: bcx cap sleeve belted lace dress from macys dress b: material girl lace skater dress (it's a brighter blue in person) from macys … [read more...] my christmas week recap – live life active fitness blog december 30, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment heyyooo!! happy monday after christmas everyone! i hope you had a fabulous holiday week. i sure did! i spent most of my time in chicago with my family. i've been off work since the 20th..it feels like a while ago but at the same time it also feels like it flew by. why does it always seem like vacation is never long enough? last friday we went out and got some … [read more...] ditka dash 5k race review december 2, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment this past weekend i ran the ditka dash 5k! i would have to say this was one of my all time favorite 5k races i've ever run in. even though it was cold, it beats out a lot of the other races i've done. as we all know, mike ditka is a chicago legend. he's da coach and has a killer mustache. this race also helped the movember charities raise money for prostate … [read more...] pool time and a chicago festival july 15, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment how in the world is the weekend already over? i spent more time in chicago this past weekend to celebrate the birthdays of both of my amazing parents! on friday, we went out to dinner for my dad's birthday. we got to sit outside and it was so beautiful out. chicago summers are fantastic. besides the fact that i ordered a martini at dinner that tasted like a cough drop, … [read more...] jimmy buffett concert 2013 july 1, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment well i can officially cross another thing off my 101 in 1001 list. 101 in 1001 goals completed: #48. see 3 concerts (1 of 3 completed) saturday afternoon we drove up to chicago for the jimmy buffett concert at northerly island. i've been to about 4 or 5 buffett concerts now but this one was my favorite venue because of the view of the chicago skyline! how beautiful … [read more...] my first bikini competition video clips november 22, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment happy thanksgiving everyone!!! after i finished stuffing my face this holiday, i naturally started to look up bikini competition videos on youtube. i was shocked when i found a couple videos from my show. i had yet to see any video of my show so it was fun to find these :) i figured i'd share them with you. you can see my reaction and how shocked i was when they … [read more...] fitness america midwest championships picture october 24, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment i finally got my first professional picture back from the photographer who shot my competition! i was so excited about it that i had to share it with you guys! fitness america midwest championships 2012 - bikini tall class sportswear/theme-wear costume: chicago bulls luvabull photographer: don bersano photography location: palatine, il (harper college) the cd is … [read more...] my first bikini competition – part 4 september 28, 2012 by erin weiss 7 comments if you missed the first part of my first bikini competition series, you can see them here. part 1 part 2 part 3 as i stood underneath the bright lights in my teeny tiny bikini with 13 other bombshells, we awaited the judge's to call out the top 5. the announcer first called out #26 for 5th place. as soon as i looked at who it was, i knew there was no chance of me … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in