homepage books media events contact about sharon menu homepage books media events contact about sharon child of the dream — a memoir of 1963 in january 1963, sharon robinson turns thirteen the night before george wallace declares on national television "segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever" in his inauguration speech as governor of alabama. it is the beginning of a year that will change the course of american history. as the daughter of baseball legend jackie robinson, sharon has opportunities that most people would never dream of experiencing. her family hosts multiple fund-raisers at their home in connecticut for the work that dr. martin luther king jr. is doing. sharon sees her first concert after going backstage at the apollo theater. and her whole family attends the march on washington for jobs and freedom. but things don't always feel easy for sharon. she is one of the only black children in her wealthy connecticut neighborhood. her older brother, jackie robinson jr., is having a hard time trying to live up to his father's famous name, causing some rifts in the family. and sharon feels isolated—struggling to find her role in the civil rights movement that is taking place across the country. this is the story of how one girl finds her voice in the fight for justice and equality. kirkus starred review–june 15, 2019 “sharon, i cannot promise you that the passage of any law will eliminate hate. but the laws will give negroes full citizenship and bring us closer to equality.”legendary baseball player jackie robinson—most famously known for breaking baseball’s racial barrier when he played with the brooklyn dodgers in 1947—gave this nuanced benediction to his only daughter, 13-year-old sharon, as the family heard the disheartening news of the bombing of the 16th street baptist church in birmingham, alabama. what the memoirist also beautifully and accessibly conveys is how her parents succeeded—and, by their admission, sometimes failed—in rooting her and her two brothers, 10-year-old david and 16-year-old jackie jr., in the realities of pater robinson’s renown, connecticut’s 1960s- style racial microaggressions, and the seismic social and political shifts augured by the emerging civil rights movement. thanks to the author’s deft and down-to-earth style, readers understand how the personal and political converge: when her brother runs away from home in order to get away from his father’s shadow, she muses on the social pressures of a school dance in the midst of midcentury u.s. racism; it is at a jazz fundraiser her parents coordinate for the southern christian leadership conference that she finally meets dr. martin luther king jr. a lovingly honest memoir of a racial—and social activist—past that really hasn’t passed. (memoir. 8-14)” — kirkus reviews wells blog duis mollis, est non commodo luctus, nisi erat porttitor ligula, eget lacinia odio sem nec elit. maecenas faucibus mollis interdum. nulla vitae elit libero, a pharetra augue. latest posts you must select a collection to display. tweets twitter block to display items in this block, you'll need a connected account. edit this block and select an account from the drop-down menu. you can also connect a new account. learn more quisque iaculis facilisis lacinia. mauris euismod pellentesque tellus sit amet mollis. mar 27, 2020, 5:30 pm sed purus sem, scelerisque ac rhoncus eget, porttitor nec odio. lorem ipsum dolor sit amet. mar 20, 2020, 5:30 pm 2014 sharon robinson all rights reserved