homepage accessibility links skip to content accessibility help bbc account notifications home news sport weather iplayer sounds cbbc cbeebies food bitesize arts taster local three menu search search the bbcsearch the bbc news bbc news navigation sections home uk world selected business politics tech science health family & education entertainment & arts stories video & audio in pictures newsbeat reality check special reports explainers the reporters have your say disability asia selected china selected india china china china uighurs: all you need to know on muslim 'crackdown' by roland hughes bbc news 8 november 2018 share this with facebook share this with messenger share this with twitter share this with email share this with facebook share this with whatsapp share this with messenger share this with twitter share share this with these are external links and will open in a new window email share this with email facebook share this with facebook messenger share this with messenger messenger share this with messenger twitter share this with twitter pinterest share this with pinterest whatsapp share this with whatsapp linkedin share this with linkedin copy this link https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-china-45474279 read more about sharing. these are external links and will open in a new window close share panel image copyright getty images image caption a muslim man leads the call to prayer in china's xinjiang region in 2008 china is facing growing criticism over its persecution of some muslim minority groups, huge numbers of whom are allegedly being held in internment camps. in august 2018, a un committee heard that up to one million uighur muslims and other muslim groups could be being detained in the western xinjiang region, where they're said to be undergoing "re-education" programmes. the claims were made by rights groups, but china denies the allegations. at the same time, there's growing evidence of oppressive surveillance against people living in xinjiang. we've developed this new format to try to explain the story to you better. related topics xinjiang share this story about sharing email facebook messenger messenger twitter pinterest whatsapp linkedin more on this story china's hidden 're-education' camps 24 october 2018 why is there tension between china and the uighurs? 26 september 2014 'all-out offensive' in xinjiang risks worsening grievances 2 march 2017 who are the uighurs? 30 april 2014 the colourful propaganda of xinjiang 12 january 2015 xinjiang territory profile 12 october 2018 top stories boris johnson tests positive for coronavirus the health secretary also has the virus, while england's chief medical officer chris whitty is showing symptoms, and the number of uk deaths is now 759. 27 march 2020 over 900 coronavirus deaths in a day in italy 27 march 2020 stay local to exercise, says government 27 march 2020 features the brits stranded abroad due to coronavirus zoom is in everyone's living room - how safe is it? video how to keep 2m social distancing 8 new tv shows for life on lockdown quiz of the week: what do you remember about kenny rogers? how the uk clapped for carers video how do you cope in a flatshare? video what are you doing this weekend? how safe is takeaway food and grocery shopping? elsewhere on the bbc hidden stream all episodes of both series full article hidden daily news briefing direct to your inbox sign up for our newsletter full article daily news briefing direct to your inbox why you can trust bbc news bbc news navigation asia sections asia china selected india home uk uk home england n. ireland scotland alba wales cymru local news world selected world home africa asia selected australia europe latin america middle east us & canada business business home your money market data companies economy politics politics home parliaments brexit tech science health family & education family & education home young reporter global education entertainment & arts stories video & audio in pictures newsbeat reality check special reports explainers the reporters have your say disability bbc news services on your mobile on smart speakers get news alerts contact bbc news explore the bbc home news sport weather iplayer sounds cbbc cbeebies food bitesize arts taster local three terms of use about the bbc privacy policy cookies accessibility help parental guidance contact the bbc get personalised newsletterscopyright © 2020 bbc. the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites. read about our approach to external linking.