instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "christmas" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: christmas rebecca 4 min read december 11, 2019 21 replies enter to win: $100 from breakaway experiences shopping this is a sponsored post brought to you by breakaway experiences. all opinions are my own. have you found yourself becoming more mindful about the gifts you purchase and give over the years? i certainly have, in part because i love supporting local endeavours and in part, i think, because we don’t always need more ‘stuff’. this is why the gift of an experience has become such a popular item. it’s consumable (meaning, it can be used and not take up space) and i know the memories that can be made from those experiences are truly unique. gift the gift of an experience if you have a hard-to-shop-for person on your list or someone who seems to have everything, (i’m thinking parents, in-laws, siblings, friends, or even your spouse), you’ll want to check out breakaway experiences. with opportunities across canada, breakaway experiences offer an online service where you can purchase gift certificates to experiences in the city of your choice (where available). during the christmas season, it’s an easy way to find the perfect gift for the foodie, adventurer, or loved one who deserves a spa day. you can shop online to select a special experience to give them, or a gift certificate so they can discover their own. what i think is really great about breakaway experiences is that you can search by city (long time readers will know that we often travel to toronto, the east coast, southern ontario and niagara) so if i wanted to surprise andy with a special anniversary gift, i can pick it from anywhere we often go! in addition, because it’s online, you can quickly and easily make your purchase to give at anytime (hint: if you are a last minute shopper or have simply run out of time, this is the perfect way to grab a meaningful gift asap!) these gifts are also stress and hassle free. the gift certificates don’t expire and if the experience you gift isn’t quite what they had in mind, they can swap it for something more their speed! also, if you aren’t sure what experience they may love best, you can give them a gift certificate and let them choose! some experiences begin as low as $25. while we are currently focusing on christmas gifts, experiences also make amazing anniversary, wedding, birthday, grad gifts and more! here are a few of the opportunities with breakaway experiences that have caught my eye: if you are in the ottawa area like me, check out the food tasting experience in the byward market (this screams date night to me!) or maybe you want to give the gift of a pottery class for someone who is in need of a new way to get creative or discover a new hobby. in toronto, you can enjoy an east coast experience at a maritime lobster supper in toronto’s historic st. lawrence market (y’all know how i would feel about this! amazing!) in pei you can give an exclusive guided tour, or in banff gift a private sleigh ride for two through banff national park. how romantic! all across the country, there are experiences that are more adventurous too if that’s more in line with what you are looking for – like horseback riding, car racing, helicopter rides and more! no matter the type of gift, you’re probably starting to see how giving the gift of an experience might be the perfect way to go this christmas! tip! sign up for the breakaway experiences newsletter so you never miss out on what’s new! enter to win i am so thrilled to share that breakaway experiences is offering one lucky winner the chance to win a $100 gift certificate to use their service! to enter simply visit breakaway experiences and let me know what experience in which city you would love for yourself or to give this holiday season! leave your comment on this blog post for your chance. good luck! the giveaway is open until december 18 at 12 pm est. open to canadian residents, excluding quebec. one entry per person. a random winner will be drawn after the giveaway closes and breakaway experiences will provide the gift certificate. a little bit of momsense does not have additional responsibilities for booking or providing the service thereafter, i am just facilitating an amazing giveaway! rebecca 3 min read november 23, 2019 no reply create together for the holidays! around ottawa this post is in partnership with the city of ottawa, a blog advertiser upcoming city of ottawa workshops i love the holidays. i feel like i’ve said that many times before on this blog, but i really do. christmas is filled with activities (ones we do daily as a family) and events that make my heart sing (usually to the tune of a christmas carol). the city of ottawa offers various workshops to create and build as a family during the holiday season. i love these opportunities! remember the reindeers we made one year at the nepean visual arts centre? it was so much fun! here’s a list of upcoming family workshops you might be interested in. i do recommend registering as early as possible, as i know a few of them sell out! these hands-on gatherings are such a great way to create something as a family and build lasting memories. craft time during these events, parents participate with the kids to make crafts and enjoy a meet and greet with santa. the ages range from 3-6, depending on location. registration is available online for the following dates: nepean sportsplex, november 30, 9:30 a.m. pat clark community centre, december 14, 12 p.m. greely community centre, december 17, 9:30 a.m. gingerbread house building we always have gingerbread house building on our advent activity list as a family, so if you want to mix it up (and not have the mess at home) check out these workshops being offered across ottawa. registration is required, and note the different ages depending on day, time and location. also, you’ll notice some days have more than one time you can register for! aquaview community hall, december 5, 5:45 p.m. eva james memorial community centre, december 14, 1 p.m. and 2:45 p.m. (later one for older children) greely community centre, december 7 and december 10, 9:30 a.m. metcalfe community centre, december 15, 1 p.m. nepean sportsplex, december 14, 9:30 a.m. and 11 a.m. letters to santa the city of ottawa archives is once again hosting their letters to santa event on november 30th. kids can not only create their letter to santa but families will make crafts, decorate cookies and hear traditional holiday stories. the best part (other than the memory making of course) is that the event is free: details: 100 tallwood drive, november 30, 9 a.m. – 3 p.m. holiday sign making (adults) sorry kiddos, but this one is for adults only. i wanted to include this event because i think it would be a fun way to get together with some friends to craft, chat and enjoy the afternoon. create a 12″ x 16″ wooden sign during this event. it’s listed for any level of ‘craftiness’. the instructor will contact you by email to select a design. details and to register ($35) nepean visual arts centre, november 30, 1 p.m. i feel like i should have registered for the sign making before hitting publish on this post. i think i want to go! have fun creating this holiday season! pin it! rebecca 4 min read december 20, 2018 no reply cumberland heritage village museum: vintage village of lights around ottawa this post is sponsored by the city of ottawa museums every year, for the past many years, our family has looked forward to the cumberland heritage village museum‘s annual christmas event – the vintage village of lights which closes for the season after december 23. it’s so revered in our family that it gets added to our advent activity calendar. we go with cousins, aunts and uncles and nanny and grandpa. this year, the kids ranged in ages between 2 years old and 12, and everyone (including those older than 12!) had an amazing time. we didn’t let the little drizzle of rain scare us away, and although the horses were unavailable for the wagon ride, understandably due to the weather, each little activity and moment was special. what is vintage village of lights? the cumberland heritage village museum is a large property with buildings set in the 1920s and 30s. you step back in time in the old school house, church, and residence. at christmastime, the museum lights up those buildings and surrounding trees with mini lights that illuminate the entire area. there are activities in each building like gingerbread cookie decorating and crafts, a horse-drawn wagon ride, and scenes and items from a vintage christmas era. here’s the list of activities: · visits with santa (fyi, this is an amazing santa!) · christmas light and decoration displays · horse-drawn wagon rides · cookie decorating · ornament decorating · ball hockey (my son looks forward to this every year! most of the family gets involved) · print your own greeting card · receive a santagram · christmas charades · bonfire · sing along to christmas carols · watch a festive short film from the 1930s everything is included in your admission price, except for beverages that are for sale. we always bring some cash to buy some hot chocolate for the kids and apple cider for us. as soon as we stand in the cold and take a sip, i feel like it’s truly the holiday season! the museum has some really great tips to share with you on their website if you are planning to go this last weekend for the event (and i highly encourage you to go!). they give tips about what to bring, wear, and how to make the most out of your experience to avoid some of the busier time. we have always planned our outings on fridays at 5 pm to beat the crowds and with little ones with us, we have never had to wait long for anything which is perfect. tip: follow their facebook page to keep up to date on news and weather details as needed. if you are looking for one last event to enjoy before christmas arrives next week, i can’t recommend the vintage village of lights enough! admission info: open friday, saturday and sunday 3 pm – 8 pm (the lights turn on at 5 pm.) cost: $19.25 families; $7.50 adults; $5.50 seniors and students. children 5 and under are free. annual museum memberships are also accepted. memberships are also available for purchase for $37.25. have fun and happy holidays! rebecca 1 min read december 19, 2018 1 reply enjoying christmas cheer parenting it has been a busy many days (weeks?) as we lead up to christmas. not in a bad busy way – while i tend to overstretch myself a bit during the holidays, i really do believe in creating christmas magic only because i love it, not at the expense of my health and happiness. but as with every year, the final work deadlines, school events and commitments and family time ramps up all at the same time. these are all blessings and lovely reasons to be busy, but i find myself barely keeping my eyes open at night after unplugging the christmas lights to call it a day. i have so many posts swirling in my mind – i want to set some intentions for 2019, recap this year a bit, reflect on changes and wins, and more. but in the meantime, i wanted to just share a bit about the joyous reasons i haven’t been online as much lately! we’ve been travelling (our annual christmas trip to chateau montebello is always a fave!) gingy, our elf, has returned and he’s been busy! there’s been gingerbread house making (and other #25daysofchristmas advent activities) we’ve had cousins over for cookie decorating and hot chocolate we’ve gone to cumberland’s vintage village of lights as we do every year with family (and loved it!) i’ve been baking (lots of baking) (click here for this recipe) and that’s not including all of the school events, family dinners, advent activities, and work functions that have been happening all month! but as you can see, we’re having some fun!! you can follow more of our adventures and christmas fun on instagram. i hope december has been kind to you as well! rebecca 2 min read december 13, 2018 no reply around ottawa: christmas activities at the nepean museum around ottawa this post is a paid partnership with the city of ottawa museums as i continue sharing the fun activities happening at the local city of ottawa museums, i can’t help but think about how special events like this can be in creating family memories. i know in our family, many outings become annual traditions. or maybe it’s something we do once, but then recount year after year. the nepean museum is hosting their nepean christmas celebration on december 15th between 10 am and 4 pm. admissions is $17.25 per family; $6.50 single; and $10.75 per pair there is no pre-registration required, so you can drop in at any time during the day when you find it’s easiest for all of you (i know what it’s like to make plans around nap times!) the activities will run all day. on december 15th, meet santa, build a family gingerbread house, and create tree ornaments at the nepean christmas celebration! via @bitofmomsense #ottawa click to tweet i think you will love all of the activities being offered: bring your camera or smart phone to snap a photo with santa! ottawa fantasy face painting will be at the museum with holiday and winter inspired designs! tree ornaments will be made and are inspired by the nepean bell the nepean bell was hung in the belfry of the old nepean town hall from 1896 to 1966. it now sits in front on ben franklin place kids can decorate a christmas card – perfect for sharing with family (grandparents love these!) or with friends. maybe a teacher? and possibly my favourite activity – families can decorate a gingerbread house together! all of the crafts are meant to be family projects, so adults will need to help little hands complete the activities. but that’s part of the fun, right? make new christmas memories at the nepean museum on december 15th. it sounds like the entire day will be filled with festive fun, and takeaways the kids will love too. for more information, visit the facebook page, or the website. photo credit: city of ottawa museums rebecca 3 min read november 29, 2018 no reply december 1 – family holiday activities in ottawa: elves at the estate around ottawa this post is brought to you in partnership with the city of ottawa museums all month long in december, many families across the ottawa area will be looking to spend time together in creative, special ways to celebrate the holiday season. if you are wanting to add some new events to your traditions list, you’ll want to check out the holiday programming at one of the city of ottawa museums. there is a lot happening all month long – including this weekend’s elves at the estate! on december 1st, bundle up your family and head to billings estate national historic site for elves at the estate. your own little elves will get to indulge in holiday treats, participate in craft time and if the weather cooperates, play outside on the expansive estate grounds. photo credit: city of ottawa museums here’s what you need to know about elves at the estate: it’s family friendly, and children of all ages are welcome. yes, your toddlers and preschoolers will think it’s fun sing along, craft and look for the elves -they’ll even get to make their own elf hats. but your preteens (and teens!) will also get into the christmas spirit thanks to the seasonal music, and with a warm cup of hot chocolate in their hands. plus, there will be a photobooth station (outside, weather permitting) for the perfect holiday photo opportunity. tell your kids to hashtag it #familytime 😉 there will be christmas stories being told, and your family will learn the history of christmas cards (and you can make one yourself!) and of course, santa himself will be available to hear everyone’s wish lists (fyi – santa is bilingual!) elves at the estate, a family outing at the billing estate national historic site is taking place on december 1, between 10 am and 4 pm. a few final notes: registration is not required (it’s a drop in program) this event is for families of all ages and some activities are outside as well as inside (so you likely will want to dress accordingly so you don’t miss out on any of the fun events!) cost: $17.25 family (two adults and accompanying children); $6.50 single admission; $10.75 per pair more information can be found on the website and on the facebook event page. not able to make it this weekend? no worries, there are other opportunities to enjoy the festive fun at the estate during their new holiday hours: friday, december 21 (4 pm to 8 pm) saturday, december 22 (12 pm to 6 pm) sunday, december 23 (12 pm to 6 pm). on these days, regular admission fees apply ($16 per family; $6.50 adult; $5.50 seniors and students; $4 child).you can explore the exhibitions, see the museum decorated for the holidays, and enjoy a christmas-themed craft. have fun this weekend! photo credit: city of ottawa museums rebecca 4 min read november 25, 2018 no reply our 2018 advent activity calendar activities and crafts it’s almost december 1, which means it’s almost time for our annual activity advent calendar to count down until christmas. we have been doing an activity advent since 2009 (when i read about it from a fellow blogger) and since then, it’s become a beloved tradition. every year we update the list a little bit based on our own family’s plans, and as the kids grow. there are some that stick around every year because we love them, and others are there because to be honest, they are easy. as with other years, here are some tips i’m sharing about creating your own activity calendar: a) don’t put dates on the activities. you may need to switch them up once and a while if something changes, illness hits etc. b) stock up on the stuff you need for each activities like hot chocolate or craft supplies. c) check your family calendar and add in activities to the 25 days countdown list that you already know you’ll be doing – like santa letters or a family visit. this list is also created in close consultation with my calendar based on days of the week– some activities can’t be done easily on a weekday so i made sure they were on the weekend. i also know the weekend we are planning to get the christmas tree, so i can add that in accordingly, etc. what’s most important about this calendar isn’t that you put too much effort into crafting the perfect activity, it’s that as a family you come together and take a few moments each day to celebrate and spend time doing something together that is festive, fun and family oriented. that’s probably why i love it so much. daily activities to do with your kids as you countdown to christmas via @bitofmomsense #25daysofchristmas #adventcalendar click to tweet one final note: what’s up with the singing? you’ll notice my list has a few spots where the activity for the day is to simply sing a christmas song. my son has requested these be removed but nope – they stay. why? because honestly, some days are busy, or tiring, or i’m just overwhelmed so having a few ‘freebie’ days means that we still get to do an activity, but it’s extremely simple. it works! as much as i love the holidays, i’m also a big fan of slowing things down, so when it gets to be too much, give yourself permission to skip a day (or just sing a song!) here are our activities for 2018. please feel free to take any for your own list that you think you and the kids will love! 1. write and mail letters to santa. 2. watch our kick-off holiday movie ‘the muppet christmas carol” 3. make clay ornaments 4. set up a special hot chocolate bar 5. make paper snowflakes 6. sing jingle bells 7. go to the cumberland heritage museum village of lights 8. get the christmas tree! 9.go to chateau montebello 10. decorate the christmas tree! 11. buy and bring toys to toy mountain 12. dessert for supper, supper for dessert! 13. write a special christmas greeting to your sibling and mail it to them (it will be a nice read when they receive it!) 14. make a list of ten things we are thankful for. hang it where you can see it every day. 15. make holiday wreaths 16. decorate christmas cookies! 17. deliver christmas cookies to friends and family 18. deliver food to the local food bank collection. 19. sing we wish you a merry christmas! 20. go for a drive to see christmas lights at taffy lane. 21. bring in snow and make maple taffy! 22. go to wesley clover parks magic of lights 23. make a ginger bread house! 24. unwrap one present (mommy and daddy get to pick which one) 25. it’s christmas day. remember you have a family who loves you. and that’s the most important gift of all. pin it for later or next year! rebecca 5 min read november 24, 2017 no reply holiday gift guide for kids: babies to school aged parenting fun gifts they’ll love here it is! this year’s gift guide for kids. these are items that we have in our home and love, that may show up under our tree, or that i think would be fun for kids other kids of varying ages. each year, i include hand-picked items that i’ve seen over the past few months (or have owned for some time) and want to share with you! this guide isn’t sponsored (although a few advertisers appear because i shop there too) and doesn’t include the current trends. i suspect most of us know to look for shopkins, pokemon or minecraft gifts already. i tried to find gifts that you might not usually think of or see yourself! also, i always think that craft kits and puzzles make for excellent gifts, when in doubt. i didn’t include too many specific ones this year, but keep that in mind. i highly encourage you to browse the other gift guides from previous years because looking back, we are still using so many of those gifts. you can find all of them here. see something from a previous guide and want to know how it’s held up if we own it? send me a message! the 2017 bit of momsense gif guide for kids is here! your shopping just got easier via @bitofmomsense click to tweet here it is, your shopping guide for some fun, unique and special gifts this holiday season for the kiddos in your life. 2017 gift guide for kids monopoly empire every year, we get a family board game under our christmas tree. last year, santa brought monopoly empire and we didn’t realize how much we would all love it. the premise is that you are a company that is trying to out buy the other brands and get richer. it’s cutthroat at times, and strategic, and a lot of fun. highly recommend! buy it: toys r us (often on sale!) a camera originally, i thought about getting the fuji camera that goes underwater, has wifi etc. but in the end, i decided this year to try out the v-tech video/camera for kids (shhhh it’s a secret). it will be a good introduction for my two to play around with it, and for me to see how serious they are about using it. as they get older a ‘real’ digital camera can be on the list, but for now, i’m excited to see the vacation photos and action photos they take with this one. buy it: chapters skip hop owl push toy my mom bought this for my niece who just turned one and as soon as i saw it in action i said ‘this is going on my gift guide!’. it’s basically a little push toy like the old poppers, but it’s an owl and the wings move as it goes. and i don’t find it as loud. it’s beyond cute. buy it: chapters make your own nail polish i love finding gifts for older kids as well as younger ones, and i love that this suncoat set is the right combination of fun, youthful craft time and creative pre-teen time. the set comes with clear polish and different colours that you can mix and match to create your own. naming them will be fun too! buy it: terra20, tag along toys flower press years ago, my daughter was given a flower press as a gift. she still uses it now. i love hands-on activities like this, and the introduction to preserving flowers is a wonderful activity to do. buy it: tag along toys, amazon.ca over the door basketball net every year it seems, there’s something active under our tree. we’ve had hockey nets, sticks, basketballs, tennis balls, and more. i love the idea of having an over the door basketball net. with space being limited in many homes, this is a fun way for kids to spend some quiet time, or for the family to play together. i love the price points on these too. buy it: star wars themed net – canadian tire (other nba ones or plain ones are available at various locations) magic kit my son got a couple magic and illusionist style kits years ago and is still using them. card tricks in particular have been really popular. this will keep the kids busy! buy it: tag along toys in-store, chapters weird but true books perhaps one of the most popular books that are in our house right now are the national geographic weird but true series. these books are pages and pages of fact snippets that will make you say, wait for it, “weird! but true!” most of the books are small in size which make them perfect travel companions. we even take them to restaurants to do quizzing/guessing games! both my kids have been hugely interested in these books. buy it: chapters, scholastic fisher price cash register this reminds me of my childhood. that’s it, it’s pure nostalgia, but i suspect little ones will still have fun putting the coins in and watching them roll down. buy it: chapters, toys r us that is my list for this year and i hope you found it helpful! have questions or want to know more about certain products that appear on my list? ask below! rebecca 4 min read december 21, 2016 2 replies 5 easy ways to reduce the stress of the holidays lifestyle it’s no surprise that i love christmas. this blog for the month of december looks like christmas showed up here, with garland and sparkles and is singing christmas carols every time you browse a new category. i love it. but this time of year, especially with only a few days remaining until the big show, can be overwhelming. we are at the point where some stuff just needs to get thrown off the to-do list, where our christmas cards will now be new year cards (points at myself) and every activity may have to be adjusted based on schedule. i do have a few cheats that i use every year that helps to reduce the feeling of ‘i need to do it all!’ and that keeps me feeling merry and festive. they seem like little steps, but i know for me they have a huge impact. 1.reduce the dishes yes, i am keen to do my part for the environment. no, i don’t want a bazillion mini appetizer plates dirtied every time we have company and i put out a tray of baking and snacks. so instead, i have compostable paper plates at the ready at all times during this month. from cookie decorating, to snacking to even crafts sometimes, a paper plate is my friend this time of year. alternatively, because we don’t want a thousand paper plates going into the compost, i do have a small stack of plates i use for quick snacks, decorating etc that are easy to wash and don’t take up much room. but having them on hand makes it easier to grab, use and wash when we are really busy or the kids are creating. 2. store bought appetizers i cook a lot. i like to cook. however, i don’t want to make a giant meal every night or every time company pops in. so i keep frozen appetizers in the freezer ready to go. sometimes, we have family over and then we get visiting and playing and everyone is a bit snacky. it’s nice to be able to offer a quick bite to eat without the stress of ‘what food do i have?’ lingering over me. (costco has some great options, but also check out sobeys. they have these amazing shrimp appetizer bites and the boxes are now buy 2 get one free.) 3. keep extras around extra wine, extra boxes of chocolates, extra christmas cards – these are the things i like to have handy just in case i suddenly realized that i forgot someone on my list, get a last minute invite and want to offer a hostess gift, or just need to have for company. i know i’m the type of person that would worry in those situations, so having something on hand reduces my panic of ‘what if’. 4. outsource to local bakeries i keep baking around from about december 1st on. andy and i are making pies for christmas dinner. but there’s more that needs to be done and there isn’t always time or energy to do it. now is the time to outsource what you can. i outsource our christmas morning breakfast. we pick up an amazing quiche from local food store epicuria and andy will make a quick batch of waffles for the kids christmas morning. easy and stress free. lots of food shops have meat pies, desserts and even full turkey meals! 5. let it go all these years later and elsa is still right. we need to let some things go. it may not be an official cheat, but looking at the to-do list and just saying ‘nope’ will relieve some stress. at the end of the day, christmas comes together in the way that it’s meant to – as a family, with plenty of togetherness and heart. that’s what it means to us. use a couple of these time savers, let go of what can’t get done, and enjoy the holidays!!! i know i will 😉 rebecca 1 min read december 19, 2016 no reply festive traditions home there are about 80 traditions that we have this time of year in my family (or so it seems) and most of them are around because we truly love them. our christmas countdown advent calendar. our family visits. all the baking i do. seeing the local lights. #25daysofchristmas activity for day 15: go to taffy lane! those of you in #ottawa know about this street. so bright and fun! we picked popcorn and went after the school concert #taffylane a photo posted by rebecca s (@bitofmomsense) on dec 15, 2016 at 6:27pm pst andy and i even have a gift wrapping tradition. bubbly and christmas vacation. this is how andy and i wrap gifts 🎁 🍾 a photo posted by rebecca s (@bitofmomsense) on dec 17, 2016 at 5:33pm pst it’s a busy time of year, and it likely seems ridiculous to fill it with more requirements, but i don’t seem most of these traditions as a burden, they are a fun way to really enjoy the season and almost all of them are about spending time together. when work is super busy, when school is busy, these are the moments that we can treasure. (except christmas cards. they cause me stress every year!) i recently wrote an article on ottawa family living about family traditions and how i may hold them a little too tightly at times, ways that we can introduce or review our traditions each year, and why they are so special to me. hop over to read it on their site. what are some of your favourite holiday traditions? which ones would you like to ditch? comment below! older entries facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.