home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library christmas food and drink latest articles recipes travel prevnext christmas spiced apple and walnut chutney recipe leyla preston tue 19th dec 2017 27shares share tweet pin i am not a huge fan of mulled wine, mince pies and christmas cake, but what i am partial to is creating a christmassy version of my favourite dishes, like my christmas tree pastries, christmas pancakes and delicious chutney sauces. this particular chutney recipe has been taken from the ideas kitchen and slightly adapted to serve four people. and, because we do not have a bread makr, my version uses a slow cooker instead. this particular recipe takes a long time to make in a slow cooker, so please allow at least 6 hours for this recipe. the ideas kitchen has some great christmas chutney recipes on their website, but this one particularly caught my eye because i am a huge apple chutney fan and i would love to taste a christmas spiced version of this recipe. a few points to note before you start. i have included the cup measurements to each ingredient because my weighing scales’ batteries died on me. so, if you do not have any weighing scales to hand, then you can still make this recipe. also, each bramley apple weighs approximately 80g, which means that you will need around six bramley apples for this recipe. i only used four because 1) i would be the only person eating the chutney, 2) the final recipe will have a more subtle apple spice to it and 3) the boys ate the other two apples… moving on. so, without further ado, here is the recipe for the christmas spiced apple and walnut chutney. spoiler alert – it is delicious! [yumprint-recipe id=’6′] (i am using lakeland’s crockpot slow cooker in this recipe – more details on this slow cooker here – http://bit.ly/2brnokh) (i’m using the babymoov nutribaby+ food processor component for this recipe – more details on this processor can be found here – http://bit.ly/2jbr1kg) you will be left with one tasty chutney that looks like this: i enjoyed my new deliciously zingy apple chutney with some ryvita, feta cheese and tomato. i’m trying to enjoy a new veganish lifestyle, so i would replace the feta with some violife – still tastes pretty darn good, though! some tips on what you should pair this spiced apple and walnut chutney with over christmas: inside the best sandwich of the year – the leftover christmas dinner sandwich! as a sauce to your burger as a sausage roll filling my special christmas dinner sandwich – yorkshire pudding, chutney, meat, chutney, potato, more chutney with pate mix with greek yoghurt and have as a dip grilled cheese sandwich do you have any other tips on how to use chutney over the christmas period? share in the comments below! leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:christmaschutneyfood and drinkrecipesaucesspiced apple and walnut chutney related posts personalised gifts for the family this c... riverford for organix no junk lunchboxes... august 2016 degustabox review oxo good grips 3-piece berries bowl ... june 2017 bbq degustabox review call santa directly via bt’s new inlinku... bengal chicken curry turkish flatbread (gözleme) recipe may picnic 2017 degustabox review six simple ways to decorate your home fo... october 2014 – degustabox product review... chillfactor squeeze cup slushy maker ... how to save money on gifts this christma... recipe – snowcapped chocolate fond... motherhood diaries bakes with betty croc... easy tomato chutney bruschetta recipe golden & peanut butter oreo vienett... fun things to do with the kids over wint... how to give back a little during christm... ho, ho, ho! jolly christmas pancake idea... apple and berries cake recipe half term fun at ora’s cookery event grilled bell peppers drizzled with clove... april 2014 – degustabox product re... how to make the most of the blackberry s... december 2017 degustabox review easter peanut butter & chocolate eg... december 2018 degustabox review june 2019 summer and bbq degusta box rev... november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 27shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok