menu subscribe: $11 / month or log in log out menu share this article copy link link copied. × this website uses cookies to improve functionality and performance. by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. close subscribe: $11 / month subscribe to the monitor give the monitor manage subscription subscription manage subscription give the monitor monitor daily current issue home world all world africa americas asia pacific asia: south & central europe middle east coronavirus response progress watch navigating uncertainty people making a difference global voices usa all usa politics monitor breakfast politics watch foreign policy military justice education education watch society commentary all commentary the monitor's view readers respond from the editor global newsstand monitor political cartoons a christian science perspective economy science & nature science science notebook environment technology culture all culture arts music movies monitor movie guide tv in a word the home forum culture cafe family food recipe categories books all books book reviews author q&as readers' recommendations podcasts monitor daily perception gaps photos of the week monitor weekly pdf log in manage subscription log out change password change email manage subscription subscription information subscribe to the monitor give the monitor give the monitor contact customer service free offers sign up for monitor newsletters one month free trial to the monitor daily focus when tornadoes are only the first of your worries free access our complete coronavirus coverage zoom shabbat, drive-through confessional: faith during coronavirus the other first responders: local journalists the explainer coronavirus and recession: how is this economic crisis different? troops on streets? not so fast. us military sends hospital ships. the explainer could trump end lockdowns? three legal issues. eating in: how to transform pantry staples into comfort food friday, march 27 issue peter grier staff writer @petergrier today’s issue includes a look at how a u.s. city deals with a pandemic and a natural disaster at the same time; an explainer about how the current economic plunge differs from past downturns; a story about how places of worship are adapting to their new virtual reality;... read the latest issue follow the global crisis with peace of mind see our other free newsletters. by signing up, you agree to our privacy policy. select free newsletters: the weekender a selection of the most viewed stories this week on the monitor's website. every saturday announcements hear about special editorial projects, new product information, and upcoming events. occasional politics an update on major political events, candidates, and parties twice a week. twice a week science & nature stay informed about the latest scientific discoveries & breakthroughs. every tuesday commentary a weekly digest of monitor views and insightful commentary on major events. every thursday books latest book reviews, author interviews, and reading trends. every friday culture & learning a weekly update on music, movies, cultural trends, and education solutions. every thursday christian science perspective the five most recent christian science articles with a spiritual perspective. every monday close × more headlines points of progress: reparations for guam islanders, and more first look why us placed a $15 million bounty on venezuela's maduro first look house passes $2.2t rescue package, rushes bill to trump as jobless numbers spike, a question rises: when can economy reopen? education watch graduation, interrupted: a senior reflects on college’s abrupt end first look meet the masterminds behind biden's surge: women operatives perspectives the monitor's view mercy for the lonely in a pandemic the monitor's view trading handguns for hand wipes the monitor's view from wuhan to manhattan, a great sifting of what’s enduring what is it about a fresh, warm bagel? from the editor a different kind of guidance counselor a christian science perspective night grace arts and culture in a word beautiful-sounding words float like gossamer home theater: children’s films to delight the whole family an artist embraces her iranian past and her american present first look kenny rogers, music legend and master four-minute storyteller movie review shelf love: go behind the scenes with ‘the booksellers’ book review ‘pharma’ paints a troubling picture of an unchecked industry readers' picks combating an ‘infodemic’: when fear and false information go viral home theater: our critic offers his favorite feel-good flicks grocery clerks get a new title: emergency responders ‘i love this city to my bones’: how mayor jenny durkan leads seattle how do you do social distancing in a refugee camp? when fighting bureaucracy means disbanding a pandemics office readers' picks in el salvador, quick covid-19 response fuels fears of an iron fist the explainer could trump end lockdowns? three legal issues. grocery clerks get a new title: emergency responders as jobless numbers spike, a question rises: when can economy reopen? education watch graduation, interrupted: a senior reflects on college’s abrupt end home theater: children’s films to delight the whole family multimedia the redirect: why facts matter on both sides of abortion debate the redirect: why facts matter on both sides of abortion debate deafblind people have developed a new language that uses touch to communicate deafblind people have developed a new language that uses touch to communicate a new language has been spreading within the deafblind community, and has revolutionized how some deafblind people communicate. called protactile, or pt, the language uses touch as its medium of communication. pt emerged in 2007, when a group of deafblind people in seattle began exploring their natural tactile instinct. rooted in deafblind people's experience, pt aims to resolve previous communication difficulties for deafblind people, and advance the community's autonomy. today, the language has reached thousands of people, and is still evolving. our favorite photos of 2019 our favorite photos of 2019 black cowboys: creole trail rides showcase a growing culture black cowboys: creole trail rides showcase a growing culture did pop culture whitewash the wild west? cowboys were a lot more diverse than hollywood would lead you to believe. now, that culture is being reclaimed by thousands of riders of color. special projects cover story he was arrested for robbery. she saw an honor roll student and went to work. by katy reckdahl contributor cover story exploring russia’s forgotten land: the north caucasus by fred weir correspondent two ways to subscribe monitor daily digital $11/mo subscription benefits include: unlimited access to csmonitor.com and the monitor daily web version. the monitor daily email. no advertising. no risk. you may cancel anytime. or about the monitor daily. monitor weekly + daily print + digital $15 /mo subscription benefits include: all daily digital benefits. plus: the weekly print news magazine delivered to your home. best deal! about the monitor. subscribe like what you see here? less noise. more insight. subscribe today issn 2573-3850 (online) about contact us subscribe give a gift subscription free newsletters careers social media content map text edition rss reprints & permissions multimedia a christian science perspective © the christian science monitor. all rights reserved. terms. privacy policy. subscription expired your subscription to the christian science monitor has expired. you can renew your subscription or continue to use the site without a subscription. renew subscription return to the free version of the site if you have questions about your account, please contact customer service or call us at 1-617-450-2300. this message will appear once per week unless you renew or log out. session expired your session to the christian science monitor has expired. we logged you out. log in again return to the free version of the site if you have questions about your account, please contact customer service or call us at 1-617-450-2300. no subscription you don’t have a christian science monitor subscription yet. subscribe now return to the free version of the site if you have questions about your account, please contact customer service or call us at 1-617-450-2300.