chris bertram's home page c.bertram at bristol.ac.uk twitter: @crookedfootball create with flickr badge. i'm professor of social and political philosophy at the department of philosophy, university of bristol and director of the bristol institute for migration and mobility studies . i've been at bristol since 1988. previous locations include the university of essex, the lse and magdalen college oxford. i teach mainly political philosophy, though i've been known to lecture on philosophy of social science and even on descartes. my book rousseau and the social contract appeared in 2003 in routledge's philosophy guidebooks series. i am a former (2007-9) president of the rousseau association and organized the association's 2011 colloquium. aside from rousseau, my main research interests are in modern social contract theory, in theories of justice (especially global distributive justice, including issues concerning territory and migration) and in public justification. my current research project is a monograph on justice and migration. together with cara nine of university college, cork, i was holder of a network award from the arts and humanities research council (uk) and the irish research council for the humanities and social sciences, to work on topic involving territory and justice and the network's web resources are available from this page. i used to be the editor of imprints: egalitarian theory and practice, was once on the editorial committee of new left review. i have been blogging at the group blog crooked timber since 2003. outside of professional life, i'm active around rights for refugees and asylum seekers, particularly through bristol refugee rights, a charity which i serve as trustee. i am also a keen photographer, and you can access my flickr stream by clicking on the grid of photos above. some writings available on the web: property in the moral life of human beings(appears in the fall 2013 issue of social philosophy and policy 30:1-2.) institutions and the limits of procedural justice (working draft: comments welcome!) justice and property: on the institutional thesis concerning property (working draft: comments welcome!) entry on jean-jacques rousseau for the stanford enclyclopedia of philosophy natural rights to migration? coercion of foreigners, territory and compensation (working draft: comments welcome!) political justification, theoretical complexity, and democratic community (ethics, vol. 107, no. 4. (jul., 1997), pp. 563-583. - via jstor subscription may be needed). principles of distributive justice, counterfactuals and history journal of political philosophy, 1 (3):213-28 (1993) . bristol and burke jean-jacques rousseau, "the general society of the human race" (cb trans.) institutionalizing the difference principle the design from this page comes from bluerobot and was shamelessly ripped off from kieran healy. buy my books (uk readers) readers in north america can buy it here. use the search boxes below to order anything from amazon.co.uk or amazon.com (scroll down). any referral fees i thereby earn will be donated to bristol refugee rights. cv and publications list group weblog: crooked timber territory and justice blog reading list for theories of justice: global justice (2013/14 second semester) web resources for the study of jean-jacques rousseau