home comments policy subscribe from the category archives: chris mooney seminar war on science watch by john holbo on september 26, 2006 washington – the bush administration has blocked release of a report that suggests global warming is contributing to the frequency and strength of hurricanes, the journal nature reported tuesday. … the report drew a prompt response from sen. frank r. lautenberg d-n.j., who charged that “the administration has effectively declared war on science and truth to advance its anti-environment agenda … the bush administration continues to censor scientists who have documented the current impacts of global warming.” via c&l hey, someone should write a book about this sort of thing. maybe give away a companion to the book for good measure. (admittedly, this report may be premature – the report about the report, that is. the actual nature article title ends with a question mark, “is the us hurricane report being quashed?”) i didn’t mention this in my previous post: mooney’s book [amazon] is now out in paperback – and cheap! (and it’s got search inside. so if you want to research various figures’ involvement in the debate, you can do so efficiently online.) plagues and polygraphs by john quiggin on april 18, 2006 following our seminar on the republican war on science i heard from john mangels, science writer for the cleveland plain dealer, who pointed me to this series of reports (free registration required) on dr thomas butler, an infectious disease researcher who (apparently mistakenly) reported missing 30 vials of plague bacteria, and ended up being railroaded into prison by an fbi determined to get a conviction even after it became apparent that the events they were supposedly investigating had never occurred. it’s an amazing story, which as mangels says is a metaphor for the clash between science and the bush administration, and between fear and reason in the post-9/11 world. much of is the kind of thing that can happen anywhere once the wheels of criminal investigation are set turning. i was struck, though, by one particularly american feature of the story – the crucial role of the polygraph or “lie detector”. this method is (literally) a piece of witchdoctor magic, tricked out with enough electronic gadgetry to impress the class of believers in technology, as opposed to science, we discussed in the seminar. this group plays a much bigger role in the us than elsewhere, which may be why the polygraph is taken seriously only in the us. republican war on science seminar: index by john quiggin on march 29, 2006 various commenters have suggested that the blog format for the seminar is hard to follow. in the hope of improving things, i’m posting an index. i think it should work particularly well with tabbed browsers. anyway i’d appreciate advice on whether this makes it easier, or just adds to the confusion. my order isn’t the same as the posting order on the blog, but roughly matches chris mooney’s arrangement of his repsonse republican war on science : introduction to a seminar by john quiggin (introduction and overview) war on science by ted barlow worldwide war on science by john quiggin the stars and stripes down to earth by daniel davies mooney minus the polemic? by john holbo war with the newts by henry farrell the war and the quarrels by tim lambert if there’s a war, please direct me to the battlefield by steve fuller the revolution will not be synthesized comment on steve fuller by kieran healy war over science or war on science by john quiggin man, you guys worked me hard…. reply by chris mooney the revolution will not be synthesized by kieran healy on march 28, 2006 i am abusing my ability to post here rather than add a comment to the ongoing thread discussing steve fuller’s response to chris mooney’s book. i think—sorry, p.z.—that much of what fuller says is more or less right. to be more precise, i think the first half of his response to mooney is pretty good, and there are some good bits later on, too. however—sorry, steve—i also think fuller makes an error in the way he fuses his sociology of science with his policy recommendations about what to do about the intelligent design movement. moreover, he himself does the groundwork that makes the basis of the error clear. i’ll try to explain below the fold. [click to continue…] republican war on science : introduction to a seminar by john quiggin on march 27, 2006 political conflict over scientific issues has probably never been as sharp as at present. issues like global warming and stem-cell research, that came to prominence in the 1990s are being fiercely debated. at the same time, questions that had, apparently, been resolved long ago, like evolution or the us ban on agricultural use of ddt, are being refought. a striking feature of these debates is that, in nearly all cases (the one big exception being gm foods) the fight lines up the political right, and particularly the us republican party on one side, and the majority of scientists and scientific organisations on the other. chris mooney’s book, the republican war on science is, therefore, a timely contribution to the debate, and we are happy to host a seminar to discuss it, and thank chris for agreeing to take part. in addition to contributions from five members of ct, we’re very pleased to have two guests participating in the debate. tim lambert has been an active participant in the blogospheric version of some of the debates discussed by chris. tim, like the ct participants, broadly endorses chris’s argument, though with some disagreement on analytical points and questions of emphasis and presentation. to broaden the debate, steve fuller was invited to take part in the seminar, and kindly agreed, knowing that he would be very much in the minority. steve presents a social constructivist critique of chris’ argument. we’re very grateful to steve for taking part. i won’t attempt to summarise the debate since chris mooney, in his response, has done an excellent job. like previous ct seminars, this seminar is published under a creative commons licence, with no prejudice to any material quoted from the republican war on science or other texts under fair use principles. comments are open to all posts; we encourage people with general comments to leave them on chris’s post. the seminar will be made available in pdf format, once discussion concluded. if you wish to link to this seminar, use the url http://crookedtimber.org/category/chris-mooney-seminar/ the stars and stripes down to earth (posted for daniel davies by hf) by henry on march 27, 2006 chris mooney’s book, “the republican war on science” seems to me a very american book. it’s not that europe is bereft of “sound science” hacks trying to influence the process by which regulations are made, or even of our own brand of home-grown irrationalists of one kind or another. however, america does seem to have a hell of a lot of them, and they seem to pick battlegrounds (like creation science, to take the clearest example) which suggest that the purpose of a lot of the republican war on science is not so much to push an alternative pseudo-scientific agenda for political and economic gain, but rather to knock scientists off their pedestal for the sake of doing so. [click to continue…] war on science by ted on march 27, 2006 i had to be on guard while reading chris mooney’s the republican war on science, because it’s a sterling example of a book that tells me what i want to hear. for the lion’s share of the readers of this blog, it’s what you want to hear, too. so take this with a grain of salt. [click to continue…] worldwide war on science by john quiggin on march 27, 2006 what do evolution, human-caused global warming and the adverse health effects of exposure to cigarette smoking have in common? all are well-established scientific facts and all have been vigorously denied by a network of thinktanks, politicians and commentators associated with the republican party in the united states. of course, disputes over environmental and health issues have been going on for many years, and evolution has always been controversial in the united states. the striking development of the last fifteen years or so is the development of a systematic approach hostile to, and subversive of, all the standard rules of scientific inquiry and treatment of evidence. this approach is referred to by chris mooney as the republican war on science. the central rhetorical element of the war on science is the abandonment of science, as the term in normally understood, in favour of what is called ‘sound science’, a term that first came to prominence with the advancement of sound science coalition, a body primarily funded by the philip morris tobacco company. broadly speaking, ‘sound science’ is science produced at the behest of relevant industry groups, though mainstream scientific research may be included if its results are politically convenient. [click to continue…] war over science or war on science by john quiggin on march 27, 2006 since my initial contribution was a fairly straightforward review, i thought i’d have another go, taking advantage of the contributions i’ve read. it’s pretty clear that there is some kind of war going on involving republicans and science, but, as with iraq, i think it’s possible to distinguish two competing stories. one is that we are seeing a war over science, considered as valuable territory. in this story republicans like science, and particularly the technology produced by science, but would prefer a more politically reliable science that always generated the kinds of results that suit their backers. the other is a war on science, in the sense of an attack on the entire scientific community and their claim that scientific method is a route to knowledge that, while not infallible, is so much more reliable than any alternative as to render non-scientific approaches, such as magic, religion or rhetorical argument, irrelevant in any domain where the scientific method can be applied. attacks on, and defences of, this claim were the central feature of the science wars of the 1990s. indeed, a striking feature of the science wars was the absence of a great deal of substantive concern over particular outcomes of scientific research, though there was more concern about technological applications. when the critique of the claims of science went from the general to the particular, it was quite common to see a focus on early 20th century eugenics or 19th century claims about the inferiority of women rather than on particular outcomes of contemporary scientific research. as i read chris mooney, his central claim is that the war over science, driven by the desire to get the ‘right’ results on issues like stem cell research, global warming, evolution and so on is being pursued with such vigour and lack of scruple as to become, inevitably a war on science. most of the commentators so far have suggested that chris has been overly polemical here, and that there is a large body of people, exemplified by newt gingrich, who have a very positive view of science, but assume that good science must produce results favorable to their notion of individual liberty. the influence of science fiction, much of it libertarian in tone, is, as henry points out, significant here. i think the position is more complicated. while the newts like an idea of science, it is not the idea associated with the scientific method, and still less with the social institutions of science: peer review, replication, formal and informal meta-analysis and so on. just as steve fuller attacks these institutions from an ostensibly leftwing position, the newts attack it from the right. their favored idea is that of the inspired individual genius, who sees the truth in a blinding flash of insight, and overcomes the scepticism of the mass of plodders through faith in himself (there may be female versions, but i don’t recall any) and the support of a small but loyal band of followers. more or less distorted views of galileo, einstein and others provide the basis for this view of science, as does the vast bulk of pulp science fiction. this model has been adopted by a string of critics of mainstream science, and of other academic disciplines. as i observed a while back, the pattern was set by immanuel velikovsky and has been followed by creationists, global warming ‘sceptics’ and so on. as the lack of scientific support for favored republican positions becomes more evident, we are seeing the transition from a war over science to a war on science, involving attacks on the social institutions of science, including journals like science and nature (here’s michael fumento at powerline), the idea of peer review , and scientists as a group, stigmatised by tom bethell as a white-coated priesthood of political correctness . the fact that bethell’s work is promoted by the heritage foundation, and that the same terms are being recirculated by the global rightwing commentariat is an indication that this is already a mainstream republican position, although perhaps not yet the dominant one. not surprisingly, the shift to a war on science has seen a realignment of positions from the science wars. the republicans are now lining up with some of their erstwhile opponents, postmodernist and social constructivists in the humanities and social sciences, who can provide more sophisticated arguments in the war on science than those derived from velikovsky and his successors. mooney minus the polemic? by john holbo on march 27, 2006 the republican war on science is a good read. but also – broadly – the same genre as this (shudder) and this (shuddershudder). the title hints at a sinister plot to – well, you see what i mean. the worry is the thing is afflicted with a touch of the paranoid style. now i quite like a little hyperventilation. i know book marketing makes lurid demands. i’ve read a couple reviews that accuse mooney of polemic; some seriously, excessively polemical negative reviews. mooney has had chunks taken out of him. i’m not so interested in more of that. still, a potboiling polemical style will deform presentation in predictable ways. let’s consider. [click to continue…] if there’s a war, please direct me to the battlefield by stevefuller on march 27, 2006 perhaps authors should not be judged by the quality of insight expressed in their epigraphs. but were one so inclined, one would have to conclude that chris mooney is profoundly naïve about how science works. indeed, he displays a level of naivete about the sociology of science unbecoming in any other field of journalistic inquiry. (he may need my course on the ‘epistemology of journalism’!) readers of the republican war on science are initially regaled with an epigraph from steven pinker, the first sentence of which reads: the success of science depends on an apparatus of democratic adjudication – anonymous peer review, open debate, the fact that a graduate student can criticize a tenured professor. the pages that follow clearly indicate that mooney believes not merely that this is a normative ideal toward which science as a whole aspires or to which pieces of scientific research might be, in principle, held accountable. were either the case, i would be on side with him. unfortunately mooney also seems to believe that science is normally conducted this way. journalists, if anyone, should be scrupulous about distinguishing what people do from what they say they do. the ethnographic methods so beloved in the more qualitative reaches of social science are historically indebted to just such first-hand coverage of previously neglected features of the life circumstances of workers and immigrants in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. however, mooney’s trust in the peer review system is based purely on high-minded hearsay. so let me report briefly as an ‘insider’ to the process. [click to continue…] the war and the quarrels by timlambert on march 27, 2006 readers of my blog will know that i have written about some of the same issues that mooney describes in the republican war on science. for example, the way tobacco companies used groups they secretly funded to lobby epidemiologists to adopt “good epidemiology practices“, “practices” that would rule out finding second-hand smoke to be harmful. so i certainly agree that there is some sort of war on science going on, and i can vouch for the accuracy of mooney’s book on the topics that i have also researched. what i am concerned about is the other part of the title: “republican”. is that justified? are the republicans the only ones making significant attacks on science? the title put me in mind of a book from the 90s: higher superstition: the academic left and its quarrels with science by gross and levitt. [click to continue…] war with the newts by henry on march 27, 2006 i’ve already reviewed chris’s book at length, and talked there about why i liked it. what i want to do in this contribution is to develop on what i argued back then was missing from the book. short version: chris presents latterday republican science policy as the product of an unholy alliance between big business and the religious right. he laments the powerlessness of traditional moderate republicans who believed that science and scientific truth was good and important. this allows him to get at an awful lot of what is wrong about the republican party’s current approach to science. but it misses out on something important. there’s a strand of republican thinking – represented most prominently by newt gingrich and by various republican-affiliated techno-libertarians – that has a much more complicated attitude to science. chris more or less admits in the book that he doesn’t get newt, who on the one hand helped gut ota (or at the very least stood passively to one side as it was gutted) but on the other hand has been a proponent of more funding for many areas of the sciences. i want to argue that getting newt is important. [click to continue…] man, you guys worked me hard…. by chrismooney on march 27, 2006 first, i want to thank all the contributors here for launching a very high level discussion. because the separate commentaries overlap in a number of thematic areas, they almost lend themselves to being read in a particular order for greatest effect—and that’s the sequence in which i will address them. here’s the game plan: first i’ll touch upon what i view as the argumentative overview posts. ted barlow provides a useful and accurate review of my book’s main thesis, and then john quiggin’s first post goes into more detail, expanding the argument’s applicability beyond the u.s. to australia, and beyond the issues i discuss to related ones like ddt. (quiggin’s first post also helps me out with some of my critics, and i fully endorse his rebuttals.) my brief reaction to these posts will comprise phase one. [click to continue…] recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter