billionaires all billionaires world’s billionaires forbes 400 america’s richest self-made women china’s richest india’s richest indonesia’s richest korea’s richest thailand’s richest japan’s richest australia’s richest taiwan’s richest singapore’s richest philippines’ richest hong kong’s richest malaysia’s richest money & politics 2020 money innovation all innovation 5g ai big data cio network cloud cloud 100 consumer tech cybersecurity enterprise tech everbridge brandvoice | paid program games green tech healthcare ibm brandvoice | paid program oracle brandvoice | paid program sap brandvoice | paid program science servicenow brandvoice | paid program social media t-mobile for business brandvoice | paid program venture capital leadership all leadership careers cfo network cmo network deloitte brandvoice | paid program diversity & inclusion education forbeswomen google cloud brandvoice | paid program leadership strategy under 30 money all money banking & insurance crypto & blockchain etfs & mutual funds fintech hedge funds & private equity investing markets personal finance premium investing newsletters retirement taxes wealth management business all business aerospace & defense energy food & drink hollywood & entertainment manufacturing media mitsubishi heavy industries brandvoice | paid program policy real estate retail sportsmoney transportation small business all small business entrepreneurs franchises small business strategy lifestyle all lifestyle amway brandvoice | paid program arts boats & planes cars & bikes dining forbeslife forbes travel guide spirits travel vices watches lists advisor all advisor the best credit cards of 2020 best travel credit cards best business credit cards best credit card sign up bonuses best rewards credit cards best student credit cards best cash back credit cards best balance transfer credit cards best hotel credit cards best airline credit cards best first credit cards best credit cards for bad credit chase sapphire preferred card citi double cash card the platinum card from american express ink business preferred credit card bank of america premium rewards credit card chase sapphire reserve card best tax software of 2020 best travel insurance companies featured 5 innovations changing the future of food 30 under 30 2020 aarp brandvoice | paid program abb brandvoice | paid program chase home lending brandvoice | paid program cole haan brandvoice | paid program dna of success forbes analytics plus with teradata | paid program forbes insights with arm treasure data investor forecast: 5 key trends shaping your financial future money 2020 set up for success: launch your small business from scratch set up for success: scale your small business forbes insights with vertiv | paid program voices of success well earned: the world’s wealthiest celebrate new milestones breaking all breaking coronavirus more forbes daily cover stories forbes editors’ picks daily dozen briefing crypto confidential newsletters forbes shopping forbes coupons forbes 8 forbes video dark capital forbes magazine investing digest free issue of forbes citi® double cash card apply now on citibank's secure website advisor credit cards citi double cash credit card review advertiser disclosure citi double cash credit card review asia martin forbes staff advisor updated: mar 20, 2020, 12:00pm i write about personal finance. editorial note: forbes may earn a commission on sales made from partner links on this page, but that doesn't affect our editors' opinions or evaluations. our verdict the citi® double cash card, from our partner, citi, tops the forbes list of the best cash back credit cards, and for good reason. it offers 2% cash back on all purchases (1% when you buy + 1% when you pay for the purchases). add in an annual fee of $0 and a 0% intro for 18 months on balance transfers, and the citi double cash is an ideal card for everyday purchases. pros simple rewards structure with an excellent 2% cash back on all purchases no category restrictions and no cap on cash back earnings cons balance transfer fee of $5 or 3%, whichever is greater 3% foreign transaction fee highlights earn cash back twice. earn 2% on every purchase with unlimited 1% cash back when you buy, plus an additional 1% as you pay for those purchases. to earn cash back, pay at least the minimum due on time. balance transfer offer: 0% intro apr on balance transfers for 18 months. after that, the variable apr will be 13.99% – 23.99%, based on your creditworthiness. balance transfers do not earn cash back. if you transfer a balance, interest will be charged on your purchases unless you pay your entire balance (including balance transfers) by the due date each month. there is a balance transfer fee of either $5 or 3% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater. the standard variable apr for citi flex plan is 13.99% – 23.99% based on your creditworthiness. citi flex plan offers are made available at citi’s discretion. more highlights citi® double cash card apply now → apply now on citibank's secure website regular apr 13.99% - 23.99% (variable) on purchases and balance transfers annual fee $0 welcome bonus none credit score excellent, good table of contents at a glance rewards rewards potential 0% introductory rates other card benefits the fine print pros & cons how it stacks up is this the card for you? at a glance it’s rare that we get excited about a credit card. the citi double cash credit card is just such an exception. with a standard 2% cash back (1% on purchases + 1% when you pay for the purchase), it’s the gold standard of cash back credit cards. are there cards that pay a higher cash back percentage? yes, on select categories. the double cash credit card gives you cashback on all categories. the equivalent of 2% cash back on all purchase categories with no rewards limits, easy redemption options, and no annual fee set the citi double cash credit card apart and earn it a top pick here at forbes. earn 2% cash back, 1% on every purchase and another 1% as you pay for those purchases 0% intro for 18 months on balance transfers, 13.99% – 23.99% (variable) thereafter annual fee: $0 $0 liability for unauthorized charges 24 hour fraud protection requires good to excellent credit rewards earning rewards the citi double cash credit card offers a simple rewards structure. all purchases earn 1% cash back. as you pay for those purchases, you’ll earn an additional 1% cash back. as a result, this card has an effective cash back rewards rate of 2%. there are no spending caps or other limits to the amount of rewards you can earn. there are also no rotating categories. redeeming rewards you can redeem your cash back rewards once you’ve earned a minimum of $25. to meet this minimum you’ll need to spend and pay off a total of $2,500. this could be achieved by charging $2,500 on the card ($2,500 x 1% = $25). alternatively, you could spend $1,250 on the card (earning you 1%, or $12.50) and pay for those purchases (earning another 1%, or $12.50). once you meet the $25 minimum, there are several ways to redeem your cash back rewards, according to citi: request a check for at least $25 up to the total cash rewards balance at the time you redeem; redeem for a statement credit to your card account for at least $25 up to the total cash rewards balance at the time you redeem; redeem for a credit to your linked citi savings or checking account or to a checking account from which you have paid a citi credit card bill at least two times. fine print if you redeem your rewards for a statement credit, you will not earn 1% cash back on that amount. for this reason, it’s preferable to request a check or a transfer to a linked account. rewards potential the simplicity of the citi double cash rewards program makes calculating potential rewards easy. for those who pay virtually every expense with the card, the effective 2% cash back can generate $1,000 or more a year in rewards. as an example, according to the economic policy institute, a family of four in fairfax, va spends an average of $9,509 a month on everything from housing, to health care to taxes. assuming 50% of these expenses can be charged to a credit card, the yearly total charged would equal $57,054. at an effective 2% cash back rate, a family of four would generate $1,141.08 in cash back rewards from the citi double cash credit card. 0% introductory rates the citi double cash card also offers a 0% intro for 18 months on balance transfers. when this rate expires, a 13.99% - 23.99% (variable) on purchases and balance transfers apr will apply based on your creditworthiness. to take advantage of this introductory rate, transfers must be completed within four months from the date of account opening. there is also a balance transfer fee charged of either $5 or 3%, whichever is greater. as an example, a balance transfer of $10,000 would cost $300. the balance transfer fee is added to the card’s balance. other card benefits credit card late fee pass: citi waives the fee the first time your payment is late citi private pass: get special access to tickets at thousands of events each year. 24 hour fraud protection: citi alerts cardholders when it identifies unusual activity on a card. the lost wallet service: citi can replace a lost card usually within 24 hours and provide emergency cash subject to a cardholder’s cash advance limit. emv chip technology: the citi double cash card includes the added security of an emv chip. $0 liability for unauthorized charges citi card with apple pay citi concierge: citi can assist with travel, shopping, dining, and entertainment. the fine print interest rates apr on purchases: 13.99% - 23.99% (variable) on purchases and balance transfers. 0% introductory apr: 0% intro for 18 months on balance transfers. after that, the apr will be 13.99% - 23.99% (variable) on purchases and balance transfers, based on your creditworthiness. you can lose this introductory rate if you make a late payment and incur the penalty apr. apr for cash advance: 25.24% (variable) penalty apr: up to 29.99% grace period: at least 23 days fees annual fee: $0 balance transfer fee: 3% of each balance transfer; $5 minimum. cash advance: 5% of each cash advance; $10 minimum foreign purchase transaction: 3% late penalty: none for the first late payment; up to $40 after that returned payment: up to $40 pros & cons what we like simple rewards structure with an excellent 2% cash back on all purchases. annual fee: $0 0% intro for 18 months on balance transfers. no category restrictions and no cap on the amount of cash back you receive. you can use it anywhere. what could be better balance transfers cost 3% of each balance transfer; $5 minimum. the purchase apr can exceed 25%, depending on your creditworthiness the 3% foreign transaction fee means the card should not be used internationally, even though its chip makes it a globally accepted card. how it stacks up the citi double cash credit card is an industry leader. its effective 2% cash back on all purchases places it among the most rewards cards available today. it is comparable to the fidelity rewards visa signature card, but doesn’t require a fidelity account. there are cards that pay more rewards in select categories. these cards often come with spending limits. furthermore, they pay the enhanced rewards on just a few categories, with most purchases earning 1%. as a result, the citi double cash stands out for its excellent rewards on all purchases. is this the card for you? the card is ideal for those with at least good credit (generally 700 or higher) looking for both simplicity and excellent cash back rewards. it’s also ideal for those wanting to transfer high rate balances to a 0% card (although there are balance transfer cards that don’t charge a transfer fee) and those looking for rewards on everyday purchases. for those wanting to maximize cash back rewards, the citi double cash card can be combined with other cards that pay higher rewards on select categories. this requires you to juggle multiple cards, but it can result in higher rewards. editorial note: the opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved, or otherwise endorsed by our partners. next up in credit cards the best credit cards of 2020 (citi double cash: our best overall credit card) best balance transfer credit cards best citibank credit cards best cash back credit cards blue cash preferred card from american express review discover it cash back credit card review capital one savor review | up to 4% cash back haven't found the right card yet? check out these popular alternatives: ink business preferred® credit card learn more learn more ink business preferred® credit card new offer! earn 100k bonus points after you spend $15,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that’s $1,250 toward travel when redeemed through chase ultimate rewards® earn 3 points per $1 on the first $150,000 spent on travel and select business categories each account anniversary year earn 1 point per $1 on all other purchases – with no limit to the amount you can earn points are worth 25% more when you redeem for travel through chase ultimate rewards redeem points for travel, cash back, gift cards and more – your points don’t expire as long as your account is open no foreign transaction fees employee cards at no additional cost $95 annual fee more info chase sapphire preferred® card learn more learn more chase sapphire preferred® card earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that’s $750 toward travel when you redeem through chase ultimate rewards® 2x points on travel and dining at restaurants worldwide & 1 point per dollar spent on all other purchases. get 25% more value when you redeem for airfare, hotels, car rentals and cruises through chase ultimate rewards. for example, 60,000 points are worth $750 toward travel get unlimited deliveries with a $0 delivery fee and reduced service fees on orders over $12 for a minimum of one year on qualifying food purchases with dashpass, doordash’s subscription service. activate by 12/31/21. earn 5x points on lyft rides through march 2022. that’s 3x points in addition to the 2x points you already earn on travel. more info you may also like the best credit cards for fair credit in march 2020 how many credit cards should you have (and why i have nine)? bank of america premium rewards credit card review best mastercard credit cards of march 2020 the 4 best apps to track credit card rewards the best credit cards of march 2020 if you have bad credit forbes adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. to the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. the opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved, or otherwise endorsed by our partners. asia martin forbes staff asia is a former personal finance writer for the money and markets team at forbes. before joining forbes, she reported for financial advisor magazine and also wrote for the cranford chronicle, nj.com and thepopbreak.com.#bio_separator_here#... read more first published: feb 4, 2019, 5:28pm find the best credit card find the best credit card best travel rewards credit cards best credit card sign up bonuses best credit cards for shopping best rewards credit cards best credit cards for excellent credit trending credit card reviews platinum card from american express review capital one quicksilverone cash rewards review chase freedom review capital one ventureone rewards card review chase sapphire preferred review credit card 101 the forbes guide to credit cards a forbes guide to choosing a cash back credit card how to improve your credit score a 60-second guide to credit utilization credit score ranges are based on fico® credit scoring. this is just one scoring method and a credit card issuer may use another method when considering your application. these are provided as guidelines only and approval is not guaranteed. none © 2020 forbes media llc. all rights reserved. adchoices adchoices privacy statement terms and conditions contact us send us feedback jobs at forbes reprints & permissions forbes press room forbes quote of the day advertise the forbes advisor editorial team is independent and objective. to help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the forbes advisor site. this compensation comes from two main sources. first, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. the compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. this site does not include all companies or products available within the market. second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. the compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on forbes advisor. while we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, forbes advisor does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. here is a list of our partners who offer products that we have affiliate links for. lorem are you sure you want to rest your choices? cancel ok