petite anglaise april 14, 2008 three filed under: city of light, misc, tadpole sings — petiteanglaiseparis @ 10:07 am ‘look at my big nichons mummy,’ tadpole shrieks, fingering her (papier mâché) breasts. it is 10.30 am on saturday morning and mr frog and i have come to watch tadpole’s annual school carnival, while the boy, not wishing to step over any invisible lines, remains at home. this year the children are all dressed up as works of art and the overall effect is a joyous riot of colour. the costumes, made out of stiff paper, are worn like pinafores, covering the children’s clothes and turning them into walking sandwich boards. as we stand at the edge of the school playground, behind improvised police-tape style barriers, rubbing sleep from our eyes, the children file past hand in hand. tadpole, unable to keep a secret, had whispered to me weeks earlier that the costume she was making was a niki de saint phalle sculpture. i’d recognised most of the names she’d been bandying about over the past few weeks – ‘we did a painting just like pollock mummy, we put the paint on the paintbrush and then did throw it in splodges onto the paper’ or ‘i did a picture of a lady with a very wide face, just like fernando bottero’ – but saint phalle was not a name i was familiar with. ‘i’m going to be a sculpture,’ explained tadpole helpfully, as i waited for the relevant page to power up on wikipedia. ‘a sculpture of a lady with great big nipples and a big fat bottom wearing a swimming costume.’ it was the boy who, at the mention of niki de saint phalle, pointed out that the fountains in place igor stravinsky, in the shadow of the centre pompidou are saint phalle sculptures. i knew them well, but never would have put two and two together. ‘shall we go on the métro on an adventure?’ i suggest to tadpole on sunday afternoon. ‘ooh yes, i love the métro,’ she replies, darting across the room to fetch her shoes. if only everyone were so easy to please. when we reach our destination, tadpole shrieks with delight and i catch the boy’s eye, silently thanking him for coming up with the idea. we make several tours of the huge rectangular bassin, tadpole racing on ahead, examining each sculpture in turn, trying to decide which one she likes best. my personal favourite is the reclining mermaid with water squirting out of one huge, multicoloured breast, but tadpole is just as amused by the huge pair of lips, the spinning bowler hat, the elmer-like elephant and the majestic crowned bird, wings spread, reminiscent of a mayan condor god. we take a few snaps of tadpole, posing by the sculptures, squinting into the sun and grinning like the cheshire cat. when the skies darken and the first raindrops fall, we hurry into the marais to find a restaurant where we can grab a bite to eat. tadpole doodles on the back of a napkin with a biro unearthed from the bottom of my handbag. elbows on the table, chin cupped in my hands, i look from the boy to tadpole and back again, marvelling at how simple and how right everything feels. for gonzales (aka fella?). https://petiteanglaise.files.wordpress.com/2008/04/elephants.mp3 comments (55) march 2, 2008 sunday papers filed under: book stuff, city of light — petiteanglaiseparis @ 9:53 am you can find me here, here and also podcasting (with accompanying slideshow in which a shopping trolley plays a starring role?!) here. i do hope no one is reading one in my carriage on the eurostar today. comments (33) january 21, 2008 smoke filed under: city of light — petiteanglaiseparis @ 4:00 pm when i whisked the boy away to london for his birthday last autumn, i remember wandering around soho amazed at how all the pubs were so full that many of the drinkers had to resort to nursing their pints outside on the pavement. the penny only dropped when we pushed our way through the crowds to venture inside to order drinks of our own. as soon as we were through the door we realised that outward appearances had been deceptive. indoors, all was silent as the tomb. the smoking ban had literally turned the pubs inside out, and the odour of cigarettes had been replaced with the (arguably more unpleasant) tang of stale beer and sweat. france followed suit on january 1st and since the boy is a hardened smoker, never to be found without a packet of lucky strike about his person, i shivered at the prospect of sitting outside our favourite bars in the bleak mid-winter. it was either that, i reasoned, or sit indoors, but regularly find myself alone, tapping my fingers impatiently on the table, while the smokers (almost everyone but me) took themselves off outside for a nicotine fix. so far, i’m pleased to say, we seem to have managed to find a happy medium: bars and restaurants with heated terrasses and clear plastic awnings which effectively mean we are seated almost indoors. granted, the patio heaters usually leave me pink-cheeked and frosty-toed, so i should probably start wearing an extra pair of socks if i want to be spared chilblains this year (yes, i know, they went out with the ark, no one gets chilblains any more – try telling that to my feet). i’m also well aware that heating the outdoors is an exercise which is unlikely to have a positive impact on the environment. hearing the boy making arrangements to meet his mum for a drink this weekend – suggesting first aux folies, then saying “eh merde, ils ont pas de terrasse chauffée….. va falloir que je la rappelle pour donner rendez-vous au zèbre…” it occurred to me that if i had an ounce of spare time, i should probably write a handy little guide called “paris, la clope au bec” and pitch it to parigramme, where it would nestle comfortably among the other titles in their collection. i currently own “bien naître à paris“, “sos jeune maman parisienne” (i think it was the word “young” which clinched that deal) and “les mercredis des petits parisiens” (which despite all my resolutions, i have yet to open). today, having browsed the full list of publications, i’d be curious to read “comment devenir une vraie parisienne“. i suspect that my own favoured solution – find myself a real, bona-fide parisian, born only a couple of kilometres from where he now lives, and regularly exchange bodily fluids in the hope that some of his parisien-ness will rub off on me – may be a little, um, unconventional… comments (63) january 9, 2007 tapage nocturne filed under: city of light — petiteanglaiseparis @ 7:45 pm “scrape scrape clatter scrape!” this is the sound my upstairs neighbours’ clogs make as they grate against the hardwood floor like giant fingernails on a blackboard, at a volume loud enough to actually wake me from a deep, dreamless slumber. at least i imagine their feet clad in clogs. what else could possibly make that unforgivable noise? although why anyone would slip on a pair of clogs at 2am, i am at an utter loss to understand. ditto how anyone can stomp around for half an hour at 2am and then begin again, bright eyed and bushy tailed, at 6.30am. i’m beginning to suspect that there may be more than one culprit. two clog wearers in the same household working different shifts. statistically unlikely, i know, but i can furnish no other convincing explanation. naturally i was not treated to my first clog concerto until the ink was drying on the deeds to the apartment. “whhhhhiiiiiiiirrrrrrrrrr. grrrrrrrrr. ding!” growls the microwave five centimetres away from my pillow at 7 am every morning, part of my elderly neighbour’s morning ritual, no doubt warming milk for a steaming bowl of café crème or a chocolat chaud. i try to look on the bright side. at least i don’t have to shell out for an alarm clock, as it would be superfluous, to say the least. tadpole’s side of the apartment shares a wall with the kitchen/dining room belonging to the old lady who often smells of urine and affectionately calls me “ma fille” in her sandpaper voice. she also appears to be hard of hearing, as we are regularly treated to bursts of cheerful north african music played at full blast on the radio. thankfully she is reasonably quiet in the evenings. but by far the worst noise pollution i have experienced so far were the shenanigans i overheard on christmas day, when i fell gratefully into the warm embrace of my duck-down duvet after mainlining champagne and foie gras from noon until midnight. the culprits were, once again, the upstairs neighbours. this time the clogs were off, as, i imagine, were most of their garments. and evidently they had discovered a new pastime: sex. with what i can only describe as noisy abandon and great gusto mr clogs serviced his good lady wife from midnight until a little after 4 am. since i’ve been living here since late july, and this was both the first and the only time i’ve overheard so much as a moan of pleasure, i can only conclude that this was an annual lovemaking session and will consequently not be repeated before the evening of 25 december 2007. call me an optimist, but i live in hope (but with emergency waxy earplugs at the ready). i have never met my upstairs neighbours, but i am told they own their apartment. but in today’s post i received the convocation to the (also) annual assemblée générale des copropriétaires for my building which will take place next week. nothing could keep me away. i need to know what a woman who brays like a donkey during coitus and is capable of upwards of ten orgasms in one single night looks like. whether i will feel able to look my neighbours in the eye, or be sufficiently bold to humbly request that they might consider wearing less offensive nocturnal footwear in the future, is another matter entirely. i can imagine the conversation already. “les murs sont comme du carton ici, n’est ce pas?” “ah, on vous dérange, mademoiselle?” “non, non, pas du tout…” sometimes i hate my british side. comments (107) older posts » search for: about books press fbk potted petite prologue burned null and void part time mummy baggage singing in tongues eleven days later semi-detached suspendered sunday archives january 2011 november 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 august 2004 july 2004 categories adoption book stuff city of light french touch good time girl knocked up knot tying miam mills & boon misc missing blighty navel gazing on the road parting ways single life tadpole rearing tadpole says tadpole sings uncategorized working girl stats 638 posts 27,981 comments © catherine sanderson 2004-2009 blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel