city critters, inc. adopt a critter special needs kitties resources and info how you can help contact us what's new? for regular updates about our rescue work, please visit us on facebook or instagram. please support our work with a donation! donate through paypal: shop at amazon using the smile link: amazon will donate a portion of the purchase price to city critters. donations may also be mailed to: city critters inc. p.o. box 1345 canal street station new york ny 10013 volunteer! if you are interested in becoming a city critters volunteer, please e-mail us. valentine’s greetings from city critters! several times recently we’ve been asked to take in senior cats who were losing their homes after their loving guardians passed away or became gravely ill. because of the urgency and sadness of these situations, we felt compelled to assist with the care and rehoming of what has ended up being quite a few older cats. that’s how we ended up with four older gents from one home who are currently in our care. they range from 12 to 16 yrs old and have normal age-related issues: dental disease, hyperthyroidism, heart disease. they are proving to be a costly bunch but the love we are getting from tigger (a 3-legged head-butting master), felix (a lover, once you've earned it), burt (a snuggler), and whiskers (a debonair darling) makes it all worthwhile. city critters is proud to have helped in this situation and many others like it! with your kind support on giving tuesday and throughout this charitable season, we can catch up with some of the vet bills we’ve incurred and remain able to assure that cats like these will continue to have the kind of loving care they’ve known their whole lives. our adoption locations we'd like to remind everyone that our petsmart adoption center is now located in the flatiron petsmart store at 1107 broadway (between 24th and 25th streets). come visit us there! and as always, you can meet our cats at petco, 991 second ave (between 52nd and 53rd streets). where to find us petco turtle bay 991 second ave. between 52nd and 53rd petsmart madison square 1107 broadway between 24th and 25th st. please email us if you can provide a temporary haven or forever home for any of our kitties! about city critters city critters is a new york state 501(c)(3) nonprofit formed in 1994. our mission is to improve the lives of companion animals in our city by rescuing and placing stray and abandoned cats, promoting spay/neuter programs, and working with members of our community to find humane solutions to problems involving homeless animals. donations to city critters are tax deductible to the fullest extent of the law. our financial statements and irs designation letter are available upon request. our ny state registered rescue organization id is rr088. the mayor's alliance for nyc's animals city critters is a member of the mayor's alliance for nyc's animals. pet adoption guide cbsnewyork.com has teamed up with the mayor’s alliance to feature a dozen of the top shelters and rescue groups in the city. city critters is very pleased to be one of the rescue groups included. ©2018. all rights reserved. no content in this site may be used, altered, or reproduced without the explicit written permission of the site administrator or other individual copyright holders.