clark filters direct industrial & commercial digital marketing | seo & ppc think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 clark filters direct marketing clarkfiltersrus sells more quality clark filters with an ecommerce site. clarkfiltersrus allows customers to search for high quality clark filters by oem – so customers who know what they need can find it quickly. they have a wide selection of products from the industry’s leading manufacturers. logo web design seo pay per click the challenge clarkfiltersrus sells products to customers who typically know what they are looking for, so the challenge was adding functionality that allowed them to find their product as quickly as possible. the result is a search with autosuggest functionality and browse by oem capabilities. the plan design and develop a new ecommerce site implement advanced suggested search functionality implement browse by oem functionality embed the clarkfilter name in a strategic way the results 0% increase in click-through rate (ctr) 0% increase in revenue per click (rpc) 0% increase in return on ad spend (roas) clark filters direct dust collection filter list done by smartsites new clark filters direct website design done by smartsites updated clark filters direct website design done by smartsites get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha phone this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials after a nightmare experience with other marketing companies, i finally found a hard working group who actually know what they are doing. they handle all of my ads as and designed a website. business has doubled since we started. looking forward to more success. agape health wellness center dr. larry bennett view 100+ more testimonials i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: case studies clark filters direct recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect