content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip author: clare mcdermott clare mcdermott is the co-founder and head of strategy at mantis research. follow her @clare_mcd. company news by clare-mcdermott published march 26, 2020 16 apps and tools to keep you productive and sane editor’s note: staying sane while working has never been more challenging and necessary. we’re bringing back this 2018 article to help. i committed to evaluating my personal tech stack (yeah, i know that’s an odd collection of words, but you’ll see what i mean). my workload felt out of control. my goal was to be more intentional about finding worthwhile shortcuts and workarounds, as well as trying to make life simpler – an undertaking i jokingly call clare 2.0. continue reading by clare-mcdermott published february 18, 2020 ai for marketing: make it work for you if you think it’s too soon to incorporate ai tools into your content marketing, you’re already behind the curve. there are interesting, unusual, and worthwhile applications of ai you can – and should – put in place right now. read on for a look at how machine learning and predictive analytics are reshaping the marketing landscape and ideas for starting to power your program with the benefits it offers. continue reading by clare-mcdermott published october 14, 2019 john cleese on creativity [video] the history of content marketing world keynotes reads like a roll call of the world’s most creative people – and one of the most popular was john cleese in 2015. cco’s interview with cleese was never published online … until now. continue reading by clare-mcdermott published october 14, 2019 a step-by-step guide to audience development intel launched its digital magazine, iq, in 2012. but in early 2017 the team switched focus from chasing eyeballs to sustaining loyal readers. luke kintigh was head of publishing at intel iq at the time and shared how they did it. continue reading by clare-mcdermott published october 14, 2019 research: the window to an audience’s soul when the sierra club of colorado needed to raise awareness about its conservation efforts (and raise money to support them), the grassroots organization used voice of customer research to get inside the heads of its members. continue reading company news by clare-mcdermott published april 15, 2019 how to create content in a world with bots editor’s note: this article debuted in the april issue of the now digital only chief content officer magazine. in 2014, i got into a heated conversation with a colleague. he argued that, within just a few years, robots would replace writers in content marketing. i rolled my eyes so hard my brain ached. the idea of machines crafting sentences as elegant and nuanced as a human writer could was both heretical and impossible, i thought. turns out he was right, but the development isn’t the sci-fi creative dystopia i imagined … in most cases. today, companies indeed use machine learning to generate natural language, and marketers are using ai-powered tools like narrative science and automated insights to produce practical, well-constructed, high-performing content. continue reading by clare-mcdermott published april 1, 2019 bionic content: can creative writers and machine-built content co-exist? ai-driven robo-writers, “cobots,” and chatbots don’t necessarily mean the machines are taking over. often, they can enhance your content and communications. just don’t alienate your audience. continue reading company news by clare-mcdermott published march 15, 2019 rant alert: content marketers must up their data game over the last decade, organizations have invested heavily in marketing analytics engines – from predictive analytics to performance management and data visualization tools. these tools help users surface insights from massive quantities of data, but perhaps more compelling, they bill themselves as “self-service” or accessible to marketers who may not have advanced quantitative skills. are those who are not data scientists or analysts equipped to make sense of the output from these powerful engines? plenty of research points to the contrary. continue reading company news by clare-mcdermott published november 26, 2018 5 research options you may never have considered for your content if you’re like most content marketers i speak to, the strategies and tactics you use to grow an audience and get attention just aren’t working as they once were. a buzzsumo study, content trends 2018, confirms it; in a review of 100 million articles published in 2017, the company found social sharing was half what it was three years earlier. it’s time to look around for new ideas. one successful but often overlooked approach is publishing original research. i’m not referring to market research, customer research, or competitive research, i’m talking about how marketers host an original research project and publish the results of that effort. in other words, research as content marketing. continue reading company news by clare-mcdermott published august 9, 2018 are you really smart about how ai works in marketing? in its widely talked about state of marketing report, salesforce reports that just over half (51%) of marketers are using ai in one form or another, while another quarter plan to test it over the next two years. a smaller study of over 500 search, content, and digital marketers by brightedge found that just 4% have implemented ai (that’s not a typo). who’s right? salesforce, which reports one in two marketers is using ai, or brightedge, which puts the number at one in 25? the answer may be “neither.” that’s because many marketers (and business leaders as a whole) are confused about which technologies are genuinely ai-powered and which simply rely on advanced algorithms and analytics. continue reading 1 2 3 … 9 next page » connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree