about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ classic minestrone soup 823 comments jump to recipe finally! it’s about time this blog offered a traditional minestrone soup recipe. minestrone is a hearty italian vegetable soup made with tomato-y broth and pasta or rice. i’ve been working hard on this recipe and i’m so excited to share it with you. minestrone was traditionally made to use up leftover vegetables, so feel free to use any seasonal vegetables and greens you have on hand. i used potatoes and spinach for the soup you see here, and it was absolutely delicious. i listed some alternatives in the recipe, including yellow squash, zucchini, butternut squash, green beans or peas. that means that you can make seasonal minestrone on cool days from fall through spring! i used canned beans here instead of cooking my own, which cuts the cooking time down to a reasonable weeknight level. the remaining ingredients are basic pantry items, including canned tomatoes, pasta, basic spices and onions. why is this the best minestrone soup? this hearty minestrone is easy to make and totally worth the effort. the recipe calls for seasonal vegetables and affordable pantry ingredients. the soup packs great for lunch, and tastes even better the next day. it freezes and defrosts well, too. this homemade minestrone is infinitely better than the olive garden or store-bought varieties! i adapted this recipe from the lentil minestrone in my cookbook, which was based on my lentil soup. for this classic minestrone, i omitted the lentils, added white beans, upped the tomato paste, and reserved the final tablespoon of olive oil to mix in at the end. please let me know how you like this soup in the comments! i always love reading your feedback and i’m eager to hear which veggies you use in your soup. if you’re looking for more soup recipes, definitely check out the two mentioned above, and i have even more soups here. watch how to make minestrone soup print classic minestrone soup author: cookie and kate prep time: 20 minutes cook time: 45 minutes total time: 1 hour 5 minutes yield: 6 bowls 1x category: soup method: stovetop cuisine: italian ★★★★★ 4.9 from 356 reviews warm up with this vegetarian minestrone soup! this classic minestrone soup recipe is healthy, easy to make, and tastes incredible. it’s vegan, too, if you don’t top it with cheese. recipe yields 6 bowls or 8 cups of soup. scale 1x2x3x ingredients 4 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided 1 medium yellow onion, chopped 2 medium carrots, peeled and chopped 2 medium ribs celery, chopped ¼ cup tomato paste 2 cups chopped seasonal vegetables (potatoes, yellow squash, zucchini, butternut squash, green beans or peas all work) 4 cloves garlic, pressed or minced ½ teaspoon dried oregano ½ teaspoon dried thyme 1 large can (28 ounces) diced tomatoes, with their liquid (or 2 small 15-ounce cans) 4 cups (32 ounces) vegetable broth 2 cups water 1 teaspoon fine sea salt 2 bay leaves pinch of red pepper flakes freshly ground black pepper 1 cup whole grain orecchiette, elbow or small shell pasta 1 can (15 ounces) great northern beans or cannellini beans, rinsed and drained, or 1 ½ cups cooked beans 2 cups baby spinach, chopped kale or chopped collard greens 2 teaspoons lemon juice freshly grated parmesan cheese, for garnishing (optional) instructions warm 3 tablespoons of the olive oil in a large dutch oven or stockpot over medium heat. once the oil is shimmering, add the chopped onion, carrot, celery, tomato paste and a pinch of salt. cook, stirring often, until the vegetables have softened and the onions are turning translucent, about 7 to 10 minutes. add the seasonal vegetables, garlic, oregano and thyme. cook until fragrant while stirring frequently, about 2 minutes. pour in the diced tomatoes and their juices, broth and water. add the salt, bay leaves and red pepper flakes. season generously with freshly ground black pepper. raise heat to medium-high and bring the mixture to a boil, then partially cover the pot with the lid, leaving about a 1” gap for steam to escape. reduce heat as necessary to maintain a gentle simmer. cook for 15 minutes, then remove the lid and add the pasta, beans and greens. continue simmering, uncovered, for 20 minutes or until the the pasta is cooked al dente and the greens are tender. remove the pot from the heat, then remove the bay leaves. stir in the lemon juice and remaining tablespoon of olive oil. taste and season with more salt (i usually add about ¼ teaspoon more) and pepper until the flavors really sing. garnish bowls of soup with grated parmesan, if you’d like. notes make it dairy free/vegan: don’t garnish with parmesan, or use homemade vegan parmesan. make it gluten free: substitute your favorite sturdy gluten-free noodle. i used delallo’s whole-grain rice shells and they worked great. parmesan note: most parmesans are not technically vegetarian (they contain animal rennet), but whole foods 365 and belgioioso brands offer vegetarian parmesan cheese. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes seriously good vegetable soup quinoa vegetable soup with kale pasta e fagioli (italian pasta and beans) share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories budget friendly, christmas, dairy free, egg free, fall, favorites, italian, main dishes, nut free, pack for lunch, pantry friendly, recipes, soups and stews, soy free, thanksgiving, vegan, winter ▸ ingredients carrots, celery, parmesan, pasta, potatoes, spinach, white beans ↢ newer sunshine salad dressing older ↣ orange & almond granola by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) sam january 27, 2020 this came out magnificently! i love thick, rich, minestrone and i’m happily surprised at how easy and affordable it is to make a big pot of minestrone. i misread a step and added in the tomato paste at step 2 instead of step 1 but it still came out great. thank you so much for sharing! ★★★★★ reply kate january 28, 2020 thank you for your comment and review, sam! reply tim irvine january 28, 2020 nice recipe. i toss in a parm rind. better day two. ***** ★★★★★ reply j. february 2, 2020 i almost never leave reviews on recipe blogs, but this soup is so incredible that i had to. i’ve tried a few other recipes and found them all a little lackluster. but, this is delicious. for the chopped vegetables, i used white potato, frozen green beans, frozen peas, and yellow squash; i used baby spinach for the greens. i didn’t use any type of cheese, and while cheese is obviously amazing, this recipe doesn’t need it. so flavorful and warm and perfect. ★★★★★ reply kate february 6, 2020 i’m so glad you decided to leave a review, j! thanks for sharing you loved it. reply crystal february 3, 2020 i used frozen green beans, zucchini and didn’t add all the beans. it’s absolutely delicious. i made it 2x in 2 weeks. it’s so healthy. reply fan february 7, 2020 kate, do i have to use canned tomato? can i use fresh ones? ★★★★★ reply kate february 10, 2020 hi fan, i’m not sure directions with fresh, sorry! reply jessica february 20, 2020 hi kate! i used 1 16 oz can of tomatoes and about 16 oz of chopped up fresh with some water and a squirt of a broth concentrate (that’s very tomatoey), because that’s what i had. and it turned out fantastic. i also added a smidge more tomato concentrate. i think you could probably do the same with replacing the canned tomatoes with what i did. it’s a super tasty recipe! ★★★★★ reply liz february 8, 2020 excellent soup. i used parsnip and potatoes for vegetables, and i was going to add green beans but my pot wasn’t big enough. i added lentils but no pasta, because of space, and served it with quick focaccia ★★★★★ reply kate february 10, 2020 hank you for sharing, liz! reply paula gorman february 11, 2020 great soup, went down a treat with the family definitely a keeper. thanks for sharing ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 you’re welcome, paula! i’m happy you love it! reply cr february 12, 2020 this is the most delicious minestrone ever! my husband requests it at least once a week! so so good! reply dawn byrnes february 12, 2020 i made the classic minestrone soup it was delicious star rating=5 reply emily february 13, 2020 this soup is delicious! it’s the only minestrone soup recipe you’ll ever need. i’ve passed it on to my mother and she loves it, as well. thanks for sharing it! :) reply susan m brewster february 18, 2020 delicious! i did a mostly canned version because that’s what i had on hand. i used one can each healthy request chicken noodle soup, garbanzo beans, fire roasted diced tomatoes with spices; half cup each canned peas, carrots and green beans. rinsed all beans and veggies and added 2 cups water. we had dried parsley, garlic powder, salt, pepper and a pinch of crushed red pepper. to start i added about 2t chopped green onion to olive oil in pan and sauted until slightly browned. then added all other ingredients, spices to taste and let simmer for about 20 minutes or until i could smell it. served with cheesy bread sticks. ★★★★★ reply nathalie february 20, 2020 delicious! i used one large parsnip as the seasonal vegetable. can it really be even better today (day 2)??! ★★★★★ reply h february 22, 2020 nice vegetarian recipie would make life easier to also provide modern metric values if possible please, rather than just quaint ounces. reply erika tinoco february 22, 2020 excellent recipe. it is a warm and rich soup. a good idea for those raining days or when you have the flu. i added fresh jalapeño and mushrooms. ★★★★★ reply jess february 24, 2020 perfect!! the right amount of seasonings too! it’s even better the next day :) easy too…thank you! ★★★★★ reply allie february 24, 2020 i had never made minestrone soup before – i had never even tasted it but my boyfriend and i were in the mood for something healthy and tomatoey so this is what i settled on. i have to tell you this soup is the gift that keeps on giving – so full of flavor! neither of us are vegetarians and i had made chicken the night before, so instead of olive oil, i used chicken fat to soften the veggies. i used zucchini, yellow squash, potato, and spinach in addition to the carrots, celery, onions, and garlic. dished it out with some super crispy garlic bread and we were both amazed at how good our apartment smelled, and how flavorful the soup was. making it for the second time in a week tonight because it’s excellent meal prep. love love loved it!!! ★★★★★ reply betty february 25, 2020 i love this! i first thought that i really didn’t need a recipe for minestrone, but i’m glad i followed this one. very flavorful and easily made. i used a bunch of leftover vegetables in the fridge and gluten-free corn rotini (couldn’t find elbows). i wasn’t sure how the pasta cooked in the soup would turn out, but it all came together wonderfully. thank you! ★★★★★ reply eve frantz february 26, 2020 i have made this soup twice. it’s delicious. also, a great way to use whatever veggies you have in the fridge. ★★★★★ reply emma kilpatrick february 28, 2020 hi! ive never had luck with leftover minestrone because the pasta thickens it up in the fridge overnight. is there a trick to prevent this? thanks :) reply kate march 3, 2020 hi emma! so, i kind of like how it turns more stew-y as time goes on. sounds like you don’t—you could cook the pasta separately and store it separately, adding it to bowls as needed. hope that helps! reply deborah moss february 28, 2020 homemade pesto or puréed garlic basil in olive oil added right before or after turing off heat adds special flavor!! ★★★★★ reply ziggy february 29, 2020 yum, yum, yum, yum, yum! this turned out exactly like the pictures and i’m already buying ingredients to make it again! ★★★★★ reply jaclyn february 29, 2020 love this soup, i’ve made it several times. was curious about freezing it, do you freeze with the pasta? or add the pasta after you defrost? thanks! ★★★★★ reply kate march 3, 2020 hi jaclyn! if you like thick, stewy minestrone, you can freeze it with the pasta (it absorbs more moisture as it reheats). if you’d like to keep the texture consistent, however, you could add the pasta after you defrost. up to you! reply emily february 29, 2020 absolutely amazing!! swapped a few veggies, added kidney beans, and throughly enjoyed! great recipe! ★★★★★ reply superchick92 march 1, 2020 awesome recipe!! i made homemade vegetable broth, which is easy to make, especially when you don’t want loads of sodium!! my family and friends love this. definitely a favorite!! ★★★★★ reply katie march 4, 2020 hi, i really love this recipe but am wondering if there is an error in the amount of pasta to use. it says one cup, which must mean measured dry since the recipe directions say when adding the pasta at the end to cook “until the the pasta is cooked al dente”. the first time i made this soup, i did that and almost all of the liquid was absorbed by the pasta, which made it a stew rather than a soup. the second time i made it, i cooked the cup of pasta first before adding it to the soup, and then added it at the very end. the soup was still more than just thick, it was close to a stew. i used whole wheat elbow pasta.any thoughts? thanks! reply kate march 4, 2020 hi katie! you cook the pasta in the soup. it’s a thicker soup, not a ton of liquid. what type (size) of pasta did you use? reply katie march 4, 2020 thanks for the quick reply!i used barilla regular sized whole wheat elbows. reply amy @ripefoodandwine march 4, 2020 kate, your recipes are always wonderful! thank you so very much for putting the time and energy in on your posts and your wonderful book, love real food—i recommend it to everyone i meet who wants to eat better and is game to cook. i hope you don’t mind that i occassionally adapt your recipes for my blog, always pointing people to your site and book. ★★★★★ reply judith arayaes march 4, 2020 delicious! thank you! ★★★★★ reply susan march 5, 2020 made your minestrone soup today for lunch for me and my mom. great recipe, thank you so much for sharing! ★★★★★ reply aubrey mortensen march 8, 2020 i’ve made this several times and it’s always a family fav! my go to veggies are golden potatoes, yellow squash, zucchini and fresh green beans if i can find them. i use gluten free elbows for the husband and serve it over a batch of spicy meatballs for the kiddos. we also have a small batch of fresh parm from my bosses last trip to venice. delicious! best and most affordable minestrone recipe i have found online. ★★★★★ reply monique march 8, 2020 great recipe! i just used water, no broth, and added fennel bulb and shallot from the beginning with the onion, celery and carrot. lovely taste and texture. thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 i’m happy you loved it, monique! reply carlotta march 9, 2020 so so good. i love your recipes. my changes: i nearly doubled the veggies (used yellow squash, zucchini, one yukon potato, and green beans), and added 1.5 cups water beyond what the recipe called for and then tossed in two of my fave veggie bullion cubes (i like strong flavor) in addition to the 32 oz “imagine” brand veggie broth, increased the fresh garlic, used fire roasted diced tomatoes. delish!!! thank you, first review ever posted ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 thank you! i’m glad you enjoyed it. reply neal hauser march 17, 2020 loved it. beats all restaurant soups we ever bought. thank you reply victor march 19, 2020 this is fantastic! i have a veggie patch and this is my go to recipe to use them when they are piling up. don’t be afraid to use fresh herbs and get a little bit heavier on the chilli. ★★★★★ reply cindy march 19, 2020 making this soup right now – just simmering at the moment. wish i had not added the tomato paste in step one as i’m using a dutch oven pot and even though i had it on low – it burned the tomato paste … hope this doesn’t ruin the whole batch :( reply kate march 19, 2020 oh no! sounds like your heat was a little high. how did it turnout? reply ann starkey march 19, 2020 brilliant perfect soup for current situation. followed recipe very tasty. ★★★★★ reply kate march 20, 2020 thank you for your comment! i’m happy you loved it, ann. reply c.r march 21, 2020 amazing!!!!!! ★★★★★ reply chiropam march 25, 2020 delicious! i made mine with kidney beans, and spelt twist pasta, and makes a brilliant hearty soup and very handy for a nutritious immune booster! ★★★★★ reply jill march 25, 2020 my daughter got me your amazing cookbook for christmas. the pages for this recipe are all splattered. i’ve used it many times. this is an exceptional, very forgiving recipe that everyone loves. and it’s beautiful! thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate march 26, 2020 that sounds like mine too! thank you for sharing, jill. reply « older comments hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}