home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog healthy bacon egg & cheese muffin recipe october 3, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment everyone loves the classic egg mcmuffin but they are just so darn unhealthy. i decided to make a clean version and i have to admit....it's pretty dang good!! yay! introducing erin's breakfast muffins!! hover over the image below to pin it to pinterest so you remember to try this recipe later! ingredients: 1 whole egg 2 egg whites 2 healthy life multi-grain … [read more...] clean eating with mustard july 16, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i often get asked if mustard is on the approved clean eating list so i thought i'd do a post about it. clean eating with mustard when you're dieting, there aren't many condiments that are considered "clean". almost all condiments are too high in sodium, calories and/or sugar. it's a constant struggle to be able to eat clean yet still have flavor for your food. no one … [read more...] 5 days out – meal prep & a shoot september 17, 2012 by erin weiss 7 comments it's officially the start of my "peak week". this is when everything needs to be spot on with my nutrition. my coach sent me my nutrition for this week and sunday i spent about 3 hours prepping all my food for the week. i thought it would take less time than normal but it actually took longer because almost all of the "usual" stuff i was used to having was eliminated from my … [read more...] 9 days out and my body fat percentage september 13, 2012 by erin weiss 2 comments i feel like i have been running around like a mad woman these past few days. i have so much on my to-do list before i leave for chicago next week for my first fitness competition! i took a scheduled rest day yesterday. i know you probably think i"m crazy for taking a rest day when i'm only 9 days out from my first bikini competition, but the body needs rest in order to … [read more...] 10 days until show time! september 12, 2012 by erin weiss 5 comments i'm 10 days out from my first bikini competition!!! holy craaaaaaaaaaaap i'm only 10 days away from my first fitness competition. i am freaking out a bit over here. i'm so nervous and excited to get the show on the road. i've also been planning the fun stuff for after my show. i plan on going out in chicago with my best friends and my entire plan is focused around what i'm … [read more...] food prep & a fitness shoot september 4, 2012 by erin weiss 3 comments i hope everyone had a fun and safe labor day weekend! i'm not even sure where my weekend went. i feel like it flew by and i don't have much to show for it! i was able to work out a few times, go on a date night with my boyfriend and relax. i can't believe i've gone 6 weekends without drinking! so crazzzzy!! for date night, we went to the gym to do basketball court … [read more...] baked kale chips recipe september 4, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment ingredients 1 bunch kale olive oil spray 1 teaspoon sea salt garlic powder this is the kale i bought. it was organic but you can use any kind! directions preheat an oven to 350 degrees f (175 degrees c). with a knife or kitchen shears carefully remove the leaves from the thick stems and tear into bite size pieces. spray kale with olive oil and … [read more...] domo & food prep august 20, 2012 by erin weiss 6 comments have you ever been to a japanese restaurant where they cook your food in front of you? i've been known to be one of the pickiest eaters in the universe, so visiting this type of place this past weekend was a new experience for me! the restaurant was called domo. it was so fun! the chef cooked up all of our meals at our table and did a bunch of tricks with the food and … [read more...] photoshoot in september? august 17, 2012 by erin weiss 2 comments a lot of exciting things are going on in my life right now! i'm a very happy girl! not only am i super busy training, i'm also probably going to do my first photo shoot with a local magazine! i'm so exciteddddd!! i'll fill you guys in with more details when i know more :) i also have my first posing appointment today! i need to start learning how to walk and pose in my … [read more...] spicy turkey taco recipe august 7, 2012 by erin weiss 5 comments if you have been reading this blog for a while now, you know that i have a serious love for mexican food. i'm talking serious love! i love making up clean recipes that will satisfy my mexican food cravings. this week, i created a spicy turkey taco recipe and they were so easy to make and very tasty. spicy turkey taco recipe ingredients: 16 oz lean ground turkey 1 … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in