home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog the soup diet plus 10 healthy soup recipes to try! june 9, 2015 by erin weiss 2 comments as i was on the treadmill today, i was watching an episode of the doctors. i'm always a bit hesitant of shows that promote a lot of different products and diets, but today something caught my eye and i wanted to research it a bit more and do a post about it. today's topic was all about the soup diet. what is a soup diet? it's as simple as it sounds. it's a diet where you … [read more...] mason jar recipes you need to try! december 2, 2014 by erin weiss 3 comments i've always adored the simplicity and classic look of the mason jar. even though the mason jar has been around for over 150 years (1858 to be exact!!!!), it's still one of the best ways to seal and preserve food because of the seal on the jar. i also can't get past the insane cuteness of the jar either. it's a timeless piece in the kitchen and i'm just going to go ahead and … [read more...] interview with bikini competitor amber dawn orton june 5, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment i am honored to share a great interview with you guys today! i was fortunate enough to be able to talk with the gorgeous amber dawn orton this week! if you don't know ado, she's a fitness model & bikini competitor who has really made a name for herself in the fitness world. not only has she had proven success in the world of competing, she's also about to live every … [read more...] sweet potato tots quiche recipe april 8, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment i was grocery shopping yesterday after work and found some sweet potato bites that i really wanted to try. i decided to create a recipe with them last night and it turned out pretty yummy! introducing my sweet potato tots quiche! this is a super simple recipe that only takes a few minutes of prep time. that's my kinda recipe. :) sweet potato tots quiche … [read more...] a bachelorette party & building my shoulders march 25, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment happy tuesday everyone!! i hope everyone's having a great start to their week. it's march 25th and it's snowing here...whaaaaaaaaaaat? so strange and i don't like it one bit. i hope you're ready for the most random post in the world. it's a collection of what i've been up to lately and what clothes i've been digging lately too :) check out this new outfit that i got … [read more...] cheesy and spicy sausage melt recipe march 12, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment for the past week, i've been making a new recipe that i can easily say i'm obsessed with at the moment. i've eaten it every night. every.damn.night. introducing....my cheesy and spicy sausage melt recipe. i've been counting my macros lately and i have a tendency to eat a ton of carbs during the day. when it comes time for dinner, i realize i need to catch up with my … [read more...] food prep tips march 9, 2014 by erin weiss 1 comment i just finished up some food prep for the week and after posting this picture on facebook, i've been getting a lot of questions about it so i figured i'd make a quick post. this entire food-prep took me only 45 minutes. read below to learn about some of my time saving food prep tips. i've done this so many times now that i've got it down to a science! in the picture … [read more...] my weekend wrap-up – casino, shopping & food march 9, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment how is the weekend almost over? gosh, they go by too fast. here's my weekend wrap-up... on friday after work, i headed to the gym for good ol' leg day. i rocked my new rbx outfit. pink and black workout clothes are my go-to for sure. (pic from instagram) saturday morning my mom and step-dad came to visit. we spent the morning showing them our rental properties … [read more...] 3 week cancun cut october 28, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i can't believe i'll be in cancun in 3 weeks!!! i have been soooo busy with our rental home renovation that i haven't been able to focus enough on my diet & workouts. it finally sunk in this morning that i need to stay focused for the next three weeks or i will be mad at myself when i slip into my bikini in 3 weeks. i'm going to cancun with a group of 6 of my close … [read more...] experimenting with intermittent fasting october 14, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment have you ever heard of intermittent fasting? in the past year i have seen this technique come up many times so for the past month i've been researching and experimenting with it on my own. what is intermittent fasting? intermittent fasting (if) is a pattern of eating that alternates between periods of fasting (usually meaning consumption of water and sometimes … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in