content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search clients we work to double your digital and we’ve done that for some of the best companies in the world. from higher education to entertainment, non-profit and fortune 1000 brands, view our collection of case studies below to see just how we helped these clients achieve success. kindred healthcare how does an enterprise healthcare company effectively utilize social media to empower individuals and their families with critical information that will help them to make an informed decision about their care? read more about our process buckingham companies see how buckingham attracts and retains residents in a repeatable and scalable way that stands out from their competition. read more about our process university of rochester medical center how does a large medical system with vastly different communications needs, limited resources, and competing internal priorities create personal connections with patients, faculty and staff, medical students/residents, and the community? read more about our process superior glove how do you take a utilitarian and mundane product like a work glove and turn the research, purchase, and usage of that product into something that is massively talkable? read more about our process indiana university foundation when your database spans multiple stakeholders, generations, interests & owners, how do you reign it back to launch a successful multi-billion dollar campaign? read more about our process david weekley homes how do you make an already-major player in the home builder market an even bigger success on social? read more about our process arizona state university a united team is more efficient and productive. one way to bring a team together is to get them sharing the same experiences through learning. read more about our process hilton how does a major global employer keep up with talent recruitment in an increasingly competitive environment? read more about our process taylormade here’s how taylormade golf (tmg) expanded their online presence and commerce with a little help from their c&c friends. read more about our process insight how does anyone today keep up with the speed of a constantly changing landscape, let alone a major player in the it resale market? read more about our process cisco how do you take a behemoth tech company and personalize it to partners in a global economy? read more about our process grand ole opry how does a 92-year-old concert venue and radio show transition to become a lifestyle brand in order to stay relevant and even iconic in music and entertainment? read more about our process view all case studies barb schaetz grand ole opry convince and convert has enabled us to supercharge our efforts by providing insights on all aspects of our social media plan. ryan lauder taylormade we love c&c because they’re always here for us – whether it’s a brainstorm, gut check or to show us the way forward. adam buchanan cabela's jay and the c&c team provided us with an incredible audit and blueprint. we were blown away with the delivery and no nonsense recommendations. fantastic to work with! jennifer brower central new mexico community colleges i am in awe of c&c’s work – the team’s talent, tenacity, and dedication are everything. vanessa sain-dieguez hilton worldwide the team is a pleasure to work with! extremely knowledgeable in all aspects of digital. the team at convince & convert makes everything super easy to understand on all levels. joycelyn winnecke professional convention management association great job. i was a bit nervous about how my team would react, but they seem all in. and that’s amazing — a testament to the quality of your work. who we have helped we primarily work with mid-size and large north american companies (b2c and b2b) with revenues from $50 million to $50 billion. we also consult for agencies with 25-125 employees. filter clients by industry » apparel » business to business (b2b) » food and beverage » healthcare » higher ed/non-profit » residential & commercial building » manufacturing » marketing » media » telecommunications » transportation and logistics » travel, tourism, and hospitality » retail » software and technology » agencies cabela’s columbia sportswear nike superior glove taylormade-adidas golf 3m careerbuilder caterpillar chiquita brands international cisco cision exacttarget expion formstack grouphigh keap (infusionsoft) insight janrain kofax kite realty group maersk line openview venture partners oracle sap scansource superior glove tapinfluence telogis walmart realty yext chiquita brands international dole salads p.f. chang’s sweet leaf tea advanced recovery systems bcbs cambia health cvs kindred novartis monroe carell jr. children’s hosptial university of rochester medical center vanderbilt university medical center american sportfishing association arizona highways magazine arizona state university boosterthon central new mexico community college indiana university indiana university foundation international monetary fund institute of reading development national association of music merchants oregon state university ecampus purdue university recreational boating and fishing foundation sidney and lois eskenazi museum of art united nations – food and agriculture organization university of arizona – college of social and behavioral sciences texas exes – alumni association of the university of texas the university of california – san diego extension wiley buckingham management david weekley homes dlc management group kite realty group 3m caterpillar columbia sportswear europa sports nike o.p.i. pella windows and doors superior glove taylormade-adidas golf cision emma / campaign monitor exacttarget expion formstack grouphigh icuc social infusionsoft insightpool janrain marketwire oracle salesforce.com techsmith yext comcast content marketing institute grand ole opry nascar wiley comcast cisco manitoba telecom maersk line telogis atlantic city alliance caesars entertainment children’s museum of indianapolis grand ole opry hilton rci/wyndham travel iowa visit california wyoming office of tourism bestbuy cabela’s chiquita brands international columbia sportswear cvs petco plexus taylormade walmart cisco cision exacttarget expion formstack icuc social infusionsoft janrain kofax oracle sap techsmith telogis yext abel communications adfarm argyle communications bliss integrated bravo group deveney communications dci dijulius group dudnyk flint communications hlk the i.d.e.a. brand off madison ave paine prroberts communications standing partnership speak to a convince & convert strategist let's schedule a call to chat about your marketing goals and challenges. a convince & convert strategist will get back to you within 1 business day (or sooner) to schedule your call. we can't wait to chat with you! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept