evernote uses cookies to enable the evernote service and to improve your experience with us. to learn more, check out our cookie policy. by clicking ok or continuing to use our site, you agree that we can place these cookies. ok click "ok" to return to yinxiang.com ok evernote plans basic take great notes premium unclutter your life business bring your team together compare plans find the evernote solution that fits your needs features sync and organize keep your notes handy web clipper a save button for the web templates make better notes, faster pdf & doc search find information anywhere spaces bring your team together search handwriting find text in any note document scanning go paperless with evernote integrations connect your favorite apps help & learning about us about us learn about the company careers opportunities at evernote why evernote save, sync and share it all contact us need help? get in touch download or log in evernote download or log in plans basic premium business compare plans features sync and organize web clipper templates pdf & doc search spaces search handwriting document scanning integrations help & learning about us about us why evernote careers contact us evernote business spaces integrations use cases customer stories bring your team’s work together! create visibility into projects, workflows, and deadlines. $14.99 / user / month (min. 2 users) start free trial purchase now contact sales an information hub for the 21st century with evernote business, you can create and share notes and files in real time, so your team always has the latest updates. keep moving forward find important information faster, so your project is completed on time. work better together stay in sync with your team, no matter where they are. plays well with others evernote integrates with slack, outlook, google drive, microsoft teams, and salesforce. teams who love evernote reduce information overload with information and content living in different places, it’s harder than ever to stay on top of things. spend less time looking for information and unify your workflow by integrating evernote business with the applications you already use. how to solve information overload → everything at your fingertips evernote business allows teammates to access, edit, upload, and share notes and files from any device—even if they’re offline. space to work with others collaborating on a project? trading ideas with a client? use spaces to share notes and notebooks with anyone you choose. everything is instantly in sync with the latest updates and pinned notes, so nobody misses important information. learn about spaces → work better, faster with evernote business, you can onboard new teammates faster, and hold on to information when they leave. plus, set up a free premium account, so your work and personal files always stay separate. “time is money. we are extremely lean, we need to be efficient and work quickly. we pride ourselves on being organized, and evernote allows us to live that philosophy.” - eric piela | public relations director, coschedule customer stories discover the ways evernote business is helping innovative teams get organized, work smarter, and accomplish more together. software coschedule 25-100 employees → information technology andela 25-100 employees → see more customer stories → amplify your team’s success with evernote business. start free trial product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations notes sync pdf & doc search search handwriting document scanning notebooks & tags community our community certified consultants beta program developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose a language: english (us) bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu dansk deutsch english (us) español español (américa latina) français italiano nederlands polski português (brasil) português (portugal) suomi svenska tiếng việt türkçe русский العربية ภาษาไทย 한국어 中文（简体） 中文（繁體） 日本語 facebook twitter medium instagram youtube linkedin © 2020 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy