skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download cm answers by creativemindssolutions details reviews installation support development description product page | video | demo | user guide | addons | additional cm plugins enables users to post questions and answers (q&a) in a stack overflow style. includes voting, moderation, notifications, access control and more. the cm answers is a questions and answers plugin for wordpress that enables users to add questions and answers (q&a) in a stack overflow style. the answers plugin allows users to post questions and answers, leave comments, vote, and upload files in a discussion board format. users of this wordpress answers plugin have full moderation access of questions and answers, can restrict user capabilities, and create multiple forum categories. admins also have the ability to customize the questions and answers, filter any unwanted content, add answers, and easily keep track of users actions in the forum. the cm answers discussion forum plugin has many other unique features, like voting for questions and answers, which allows administrators to customize it according to his or her needs. additional features of this ultimate wordpress questions and answers plugin include multiple file uploads, private messages, and the ability to subscribe to categories and certain topics, as well as receive notifications when there is new content. add-ons & extensions cm micropayments cm answers anonymous user posting peepso addon for cm answers cm ask the expert cm answers idea stimulator cm answers widgets cm answers import and export cm answers anspress import cm answers payments use-cases forum – puts a lightweight and easy to use discussion forum on your wordpress site or blog. support forum – supports your users while allowing them vote and answer existing topics that you moderate. community – adds a discussion forum to your site that allow your members to start their own conversations and ask questions. questions & answers – users can answer questions sent in by other users. customer support – support for retail customer’s questions. stackoverflow – adds a stackoverflow style forum to your site. paid support – charge users for posted questions & answers. anonymous posting – support anonymous posting with aditional add-on basic features includes a views count includes an answers count administrators can moderate question & answers and can receive email notifications. users can receive notifications when answering a question pending follow-up. sorting options in the question and answer pages. template can be easily customized according to users requirements. we will be happy to add more language files and submit them to our wp community members. currently we support: spanish, german, polish, russian, french and czech. pro version features pro version detailed features list mobile responsive – adjusted design and uex for mobile devices. anonymous posting – support anonymous non logged-in user posting when used with add-on. private answers – mark answer as private so only question author can see. private question – send questions privately to question author. advertisements – integration with ad-sense or other ads networks. comments – gadd comments to question or answers. micropayment – grant or charge virtual currency based on use-case. comments – ability add comments for question and for answers. multiple attachments – multiple attachments in questions and answers. spam report – user can report span questions or answers. access control – admin can define who can ask questions and who can answer based on user role. integration with twitter – users can register and post using existing twitter account edit question / answers – users can edit the question or the answer after submission. buddypress – stronger integration with buddypress. two levels category navigation – support two level category navigation. ajax support – uses a shortcode that displays the category, supported by ajax. views of categories fit within the current site template. social media registration integration – integrates with facebook, google+, and linkedin profiles. view image, [see another image] (http://www.cminds.com/wp-content/uploads/edd/cm-answers-image2.png) shortcodes – generates a questions list by using a shortcode: cma-questions with additional parameters. for example, limit=10 author=123 sort=hottest [view demo] (http://answers.cminds.com/cm-answers-shortcode-example/) user dashboard – adds “my questions” and “my answers” dashboards to the user profile page by using shortcodes: cma-my-questions and cma-my-answers view image categories – ability to add categories and display them using a shortcode. cat=catname view demo, view demo in questions index widgets – widget integration that can sort and display hottest questions, most viewed, most recent answers and more. view image user posting meter – ability to add the user’s profile of the number of posted questions and answers that the user has contributed displayed beside their user name. view image show/hide views – administrator can choose to hide or show the number of views that a topic has. view image moderation- administrators can define a list of users who are exempt and can post without any need of moderation. view image multisite – supports multisite. gravatar – ability to display a gravatar near the user’s name and in the user’s profile. order answers – shows and sorts all answers in ascending or descending order. view image from settings, view demo attachment – accepts file attachments when posting a question. limits for file types and sizes. view image, view image from settings localization support – frontend (user side) is localized. view count control – controls how a view count is tabulated (by view or by session). view image from settings public user profile – automatically generates a public profile page containing all the questions and answers a user has posted, with a link to his or her social media profile. view image gratitude message – does not include our gratitude message in the footer. tags – tags are fully supported. administrators can control the appearance of tags with an available tags widget. view demo – widget on the right, view image sticky questions – supports sticky questions with an administrator defined background color. view demo – first question is sticky, view image when admin edit question post, view image from settings code snippets in posts – support for code snippets and custom background color. view demo of code inside a question, view image from settings homepage – supports options to define cm answers as the site or blog homepage permalink – customizable cm answers permalink. view image from settings disclaimer – added disclaimer support for first time users. view image from settings, view image of when disclaimer appears social share – includes a social share widget in the question page. view demo keywords answers, bulletin board, forum, discussion group, questions, comments, question and answer, question and answer forum, support forum, q&a, list, stackoverflow, stack overflow, stackoverflow answers, splunkbase, bbpress, board, boards, bulletin, bulletin boards, discussion, discussion board, discussion forums, discussions, simple forum, forum plugin, forums, message, message board, messages, messaging, user messages, threads, user forum, wordpress forum, wp, resolved topics, user rankings, post rating, rate,rating, customer service, customer support, community, embed, embedded forum, website forum, community, conversation, discussions, message, network, notification, social, thread, topic, group, groups, support, ajax, buddypress, comments, facebook, google, images, page, pages, plugin, shortcode, sidebar, social, twitter follow us blog | twitter | google+ | linkedin | youtube | pinterest | facebook suggested plugins by creativeminds cm ad changer – manage, track and report advertising campaigns across sites. can turn your turn your wp into an ad server cm super tooltip glossary – easily creates a glossary, encyclopaedia or dictionary of your website’s terms and shows them as a tooltip in posts and pages when hovering. with many more powerful features. cm download manager – allows users to upload, manage, track and support documents or files in a download directory listing database for others to contribute, use and comment upon. cm answers plugin – a fully-featured wordpress questions & answers plugin that allows you to build multiple discussion forum systems just like stackoverflow, yahoo answers and quora, now with micropayment and anonymous posting support!. cm micropayments – adds the in-site support for your own “virtual currency”. the purpose of this plugin is to allow in-site transactions without the necessity of processing the external payments each time (quicker & easier). developers can use it as a platform to integrate with their own plugins. cm restrict content – a full-featured, powerful membership solution and content restriction plugin for wordpress. support access by role to content on your site. cm onboarding – superb guidance tool which improves the online experience and the user satisfaction. cm booking calendar – customers can easily schedule appointments and pay for them directly through your website. screenshots questions list page. question submission form. question thread page. plugin's general settings. plugin's access control settings. plugins's usage statistics. admin questions management. plugin shortcodes. user dashboard. installation detailed user guide upload the plugin folder to the /wp-content/plugins/ directory activate the plugin through the ‘plugins’ menu in wordpress manage your cm answers plugin from left side admin dashboard note: you must have a call to wp_head() in your template in order for the js plugin files to work properly. if your theme does not support this you will need to link them files manually in your theme (not recommended). faq more faq’s detailed user guide how can i customize the look & feel of the plugin? in your template you can custom create a directory called “cma”. inside this directory you can place a structure that is similar to the one inside “cm-answers/views/frontend/”. if the file is properly able to be found in your template’s directory, then it will have priority over the default. otherwise, the default file from our plugin directory will be used. reviews very bad service of cm answer madhu756 february 15, 2020 hi, i have purchased their cm answers pro license and using it on my website. when i am asking for any support for small change or something is not working, they are asking for money. they are telling you to need to pay for your plugin support even after purchasing the pro version. i am really facing so many problems. the cm people are not listening to any request after getting money. even each year i am paying for updates and support. i will suggest please don't purchase this plugin. they are not telling anything only asking money. don't purchase any plugin from creative minds. they are asking for extra money to get any technical support as they have the package with some $20-30 which you need to pay them. the kind of plugin feature you can get it easily from others and they will give technical support free of cost. sophisticated plugin with fantastic support pparnham december 1, 2017 it is easy to get cynical about customer support. so when we approached cm about the possibility of fixing a rival product to cm answers that had started to conflict with cm glossary pro + you can imagine we didn't expect much of a response. but cm not only fixed the conflict, they also gave us the tools to make some alterations to cm answers so that we are now in a position to compare an enhanced cma with its fully operational competitor. i, for one, am now sold on the idea that cm answers is the most sophisticated option out there with a support team that truly goes the extra mile. thank you. the plugin is great ! their support is makes it even better jaswanthjesse january 5, 2017 there support is top notch and plugins works brilliantly 🙂 poor integration with other products and poor documentation catonezillion december 7, 2016 this plugin is a good idea but the execution needs a lot of work, particularly with the ask the expert addon. there is hardly any documentation available, but at least if you ask a question the service team responds quickly. too many features of the plugin can't be changed by the admin. the profile created for users can't be changed, and there are just two fields. there is very poor integration with their other plugin cm registration, with duplicate login and registration forms and no ability for the admin to choose among them. also poor integration with peepso, and this addon was just released. multiple issues with the expert addon, but this is a premium product so i don't know if i'm allowed to mention those here, but there is nowhere on their website to review the premium versions. great customer support, great plugin! owp2012 november 15, 2016 i use the pro version of the plugin. i got fantastic customer service, and great turnaround on a small issue that i had. sorted quickly and professionally. exactly within 24hrs as stated on the support page. keep up the good work! useless rashid0716 october 12, 2016 useless read all 98 reviews contributors & developers “cm answers” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors creativeminds translate “cm answers” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog view release notes in cm answers plugin site meta version: 3.0.1 last updated: 4 months ago active installations: 1,000+ wordpress version: 4.0 or higher tested up to: 5.3.0 tags: answersbulletin boardforumq&aquestion advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 65 4 stars 4 3 stars 3 2 stars 5 1 star 21 contributors creativeminds support issues resolved in last two months: 1 out of 1 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.