skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about co-op giving away £20 a week to kids with free school meals at co-op academys by naomi willis | last updated 18th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links share tweet pin co-op is giving away £20 a week in vouchers to buy food for kids at co-op academy schools. via image via the co-op group – co-op tote bag in an email from the co-op ceo, steve murrells, shared a new initiative to help to feed kids at co-op academy schools. many kids get free school meals. lunch may be the main meal of the day for them and when schools are closed, like over the long summer, kids can go hungry. in these challenging times, co-op has stepped up and is offering £20 in co-op vouchers a week. there are 6,500 students that have free school meals at 25 of the co-op academy schools. they will all get a £20 voucher which can go towards their lunch. the voucher can be spent at any co-op store. it’s nice to have a good news story! schools where kids will get the vouchers are: greater manchester co-op academy manchester co-op academy north manchester co-op academy failsworth co-op academy swinton co-op academy broadhurst co-op academy walkden connell co-op college staffordshire and merseyside co-op academy stoke-on-trent co-op academy portland co-op academy friarswood co-op academy woodslee co-op academy bebington west yorkshire co-op academy leeds co-op academy brownhill co-op academy oakwood co-op academy woodlands co-op academy nightingale co-op academy priesthorpe co-op academy beckfield co-op academy parkland co-op academy grange co-op academy southfield co-op academy delius co-op academy smithies moor free school meals from the government schools are closed in england after friday 20 march 2020. some 1.4 million children have free school meals. children are not going to miss out. a new voucher system is being set up for children who currently get free school meals. more information will be shared on this as soon as possible. other co-op support co-op is also creating a new online platform. the platform, called co-operate, will connect people to local support and further information. with so much change, it’s useful to know where to go to find support in one place. some co-op stores offer online food shopping too. if it’s not available in your area, you could try to get a co-op delivery through deliveroo. click here to get £10 credit to spread across your next orders with deliveroo. if you’re looking for other financial support, look to see if you’re entitled to any grants with turn2us. :: come and join thousands of other savvy shoppers in the reduce your supermarket spend facebook community to find out tips and tricks to save money on your food shop. enjoy this post? why not also sign up to receive our newsletter. we send out all the best money saving news and tips from the site and as an added bonus you’ll get an exclusive £16 cashback from quidco (new members only) naomi willis naomi knows the burden of living on very little and became debt free by learning from past mistakes and following her own money saving tips and tricks. skintdad.co.uk * to ensure skint dad remains completely free to use, this post may contain affiliate links. contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about