home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog coaching live life active is offering virtual coaching! let erin be your coach and she will whoop you into shape! some of the benefits of virtual personal training are: immediate access to erin, your personal trainer train in your own time, you don’t have to fit your exercise around your personal trainer’s schedule personally customized cardio training sessions (type, frequency, duration) personally customized resistance training sessions (exercise, resistance, number of reps/sets and rest) nutritional analysis of your current eating habits with dietary recommendations supplement recommendations based on your goals you’ll get access to your the private page on this site that will have a calendar with day by day workouts listed for you to follow. all you have to do is click on a day to see what your workout is for that day! it doesn’t get much easier than this!!! get started on the body of your dreams today! instead of hiring a personal trainer, which usually costs $50-90 per session, you’ll pay as low as just $35/month for a whole month worth of workouts and a coach to help motivate you! the $35 monthly price is subject to change.* i’m also offering no enrollment fees at this time!!! (other online coaching programs will typically charge you over $150 for a one time enrollment fee!!) membership options click plan for more info $35 sorry, the gym plan is currently full. email livelifeactive@gmail.com to be added to the waiting list. $89 gold plan membership is full popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in