skip to content skip to content menu start here blog podcast about categories ideas online business blogging self-publishing freelancing service businesses consulting coaching ecommerce amazon fba investing real estate peer-to-peer lending saving money hustle 101 productivity progress reports coaching we’ve met several successful coaches over the years at side hustle nation, each with a unique angle for who they serve and how they attract their ideal customers. if you’re thinking of starting a coaching practice, be sure to check out these posts and podcasts to get an idea of what it’s like “in the trenches” to win and work with coaching clients. 277: how to set up and sell a group coaching program august 23, 2018april 5, 2018 note: click here to download paul’s top tips for setting up and selling a group coaching program from this episode. paul brodie is a former special needs teacher turned 11-time amazon bestselling author. what started as a side hustle writing about his own weight loss journey turned into a string of bestselling titles on amazon, $3000 … read more 3 comments 269: how to set up and sell a paid mastermind group august 28, 2018february 8, 2018 women pay up to $2000 a month to hang out with natalie eckdahl for a few hours. the mother of 3 has turned her bizchix podcast (which started as a side hustle) into a thriving business based largely on paid mastermind groups. she curates groups of high-performing female entrepreneurs – and gets paid handsomely to do it. is this a revenue stream you could add to your business? 5 comments 210: steal this process: a step-by-step system to consistent $10k months october 17, 2018january 5, 2017 nagina abdullah turned her weight loss blog, masalabody.com, into a 6-figure side business. by day, she works for a large consulting company, and with a busy work schedule, a young family, and limited time to work on her side hustle, nagina has been very smart about her marketing and pricing. after struggling with her weight for all of her adult life, she finally hit on something that worked and dropped 40 pounds! with friends, colleagues, and neighbors asking how she did it, she started her blog to share recipes and tips. 11 comments 65: how to reverse engineer your blog to get paying clients (and 10x your hourly rate) january 31, 2019august 7, 2014 corrina gordon-barnes is a sought-after coach and mentor, and today she shares with side hustle nation exactly how she built her business from the ground up. there are some surprising turns and some eye-opening responses in this one, as i ask corrina about how she prices her services, how she landed her first clients, how she’s scaling her business, and how she made blogging work as an effective marketing channel. 1 comment how (and why) to find a business coach: 11 entrepreneurs share what coaching means to them and how they found their coaches january 27, 2020may 19, 2014 a couple weeks ago, a commenter named dan asked for some resources on how to find a business coach. i thought it was an excellent question so i put a query out on helpareporter.com asking current coaching clients: how they found their coach? is there a general rule for budgeting how much to spend on a coach? what do their coaches help them with? what are the benefits? how often do they meet? how long they’ve been working together? these are the thoughtful and insightful answers i got back. 3 comments 33: how to build a niche coaching business that lets you quit your job november 22, 2019january 9, 2014 in episode 33 of the side hustle show, i’m joined by virginia roberts from theheartographer.com. virginia shares an awesome story of side hustle success, turning a personal skill into a hobby, then into a part-time coaching business, eventually quitting her job to be a full-time entrepreneur. 2 comments 22: how to start a 6-figure speaking business, with jullien gordon november 22, 2019october 3, 2013 in episode 22 of the side hustle show, jullien gordon of sidehustla.com gives the detailed story about how he transitioned from employee to entrepreneur and built his speaking business into a 6-figure a year enterprise. i discovered his site through david hutcherson from thepowerofparttime.tv, another awesome side hustler. jullien is a super-smart guy, a talented … read more 10 comments 8: how to start a profitable part-time coaching business, with jeremy blanchard october 16, 2018june 27, 2013 in this episode of the side hustle show, we meet jeremy blanchard, a soon-to-be full-time life and leadership coach. while working as a web developer, jeremy has been cultivating his coaching business as a fun, profitable, and fulfilling side hustle. during our interview, he shares his passion for the business of helping others, and gives … read more leave a comment 2: harnessing your superpowers for fun and profit, with theresa campbell november 22, 2019may 21, 2013 in episode 2 of the side hustle show, i have my good friend and “genyus” theresa campbell as my guest. by day she’s helping ford reclaim the american road and by night she’s helping people harness their superpowers and ignite meaningful lives. subscribe to the side hustle show via itunes! subscribe to the side hustle … read more leave a comment search for: join the nation! free report reveals the 5 fastest ways to make more money! i'm a hustler! greatest hits 99 side hustle business ideas you can start today 200+ ways to make extra money in your spare time 25 ways i make passive income + 46 more ideas that actually work how to start a blog [free 6-part video course] credit card rewards 101: how to earn free cash and travel by spending smarter my tedx talk: and the story behind it. usually hustling, occasionally social contact books write for us sponsor media terms of use | privacy | disclaimer | ccpa | do not sell my personal information © 2020 sidehustlenation.com we use cookies to to make sure you have the best experience on our website. cool?ok