skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged code it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 3 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. article february 3, 2020 the three types of code author robin rendle 2 comments join conversation every time i start a new project, i organize the code i’m looking at into three types, or categories if you like. and i think these types can be applied to any codebase, any language, any technology or open source project. whether i’m writing html or css or building a react component, thinking about these different categories has helped me figure out what to refactor and prioritize, and what to leave alone for now. those categories: boring code, salt mine … read article “the three types of code” code link january 18, 2019 angular, autoprefixer, ie11, and css grid walk into a bar… shared by chris coyier i am attracted to the idea that you shouldn't care how the code you author ends up in the browser. it's already minified. it's already gzipped. it's already transmogrified (real word!) by things that polyfill it, things that convert it into code that older browsers understand, things that make it run faster, things that strip away unused bits, and things that break it into chunks by technology far above my head. the trend is that the code we author is … read article “angular, autoprefixer, ie11, and css grid walk into a bar…” our notes / read at daverupert.com build tool code article may 26, 2016 considerations for styling the `pre` tag author chris coyier comments go to comments you've probably used it. it's that very special tag in html that allows for the white space within the tags to actually be honored. for example, four spaces will actually be four spaces! that's unlike how html normally works, where white space "collapses" (the four spaces will become one). the <pre></pre> tag is useful indeed.… read article “considerations for styling the `pre` tag” code pre how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers