millionaire trader preferred broker blog penny stocks 101 (guide) how to find good penny stocks 6 crazy day trading myths versus reality earnings per share guide after hours trading tips pre-market trading: prep techniques for traders operating income guide 37 stock market terms you should know how to short a stock (guide) more blog posts … press about tim sykes code of conduct last revised: may 1, 2018. this code of conduct applies to your access and use of the websites or materials on which they appear (collectively, “company sites and materials”). without limitation, this code of conduct applies to your use of bulletin boards, message boards, newsgroups, chat rooms, and other interactive or social media features of the company sites and materials. references to “company,” “we” or “us” below are references to millionaire media llc and its owners, subsidiaries, affiliates, and joint business ventures, and their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, and representatives. in accessing or using the company sites and materials, you may not: restrict or inhibit any other visitor from using the company sites and materials, including, without limitation, by means of “hacking” or defacing any portion of the websites; use the company sites and materials for any unlawful purpose; express or imply that any statements you make are endorsed by us, without our prior express written consent; share, disseminate, or distribute any content, products, services, or materials available through your paid subscription or service; modify, adapt, sublicense, translate, sell, reverse engineer, decompile or disassemble any portion of the company sites and materials; “frame” or “mirror” any part of the company sites and materials without our prior written authorization; use any robot, spider, site search/retrieval application, or other manual or automatic device or process to download, retrieve, index, “data mine”, “scrape”, “harvest” or in any way reproduce or circumvent the navigational structure or presentation of the websites or its contents; harvest or collect information about visitors to the company sites and materials without their express consent; send unsolicited or unauthorized advertisements, spam, chain letters, etc., to other users of the company sites and materials; infringe any party’s intellectual property rights; threaten any of our users in any way; incite hatred or promote materials that violate our users’ civil rights; include or use profanity, vulgarity, obscenity or pornography; publish any other user’s personally identifiable information (e.g. credit or debit card numbers, social security numbers, driver’s license); impersonate any other user or person in a manner intended to mislead or confuse other users or engage in inappropriate, unethical or misleading behavior; engage or promote illegal activities; send spam or transmit any malware or viruses or other harmful computer code, files or programs; and solicit or advertise on the websites or add abusive or non-related linking to your own site; in order to access some of the services of the websites, you may have to create an account. by creating this account you agree to: maintain only a single account; provide accurate and complete information; never share your account user name or password or knowingly provide or authorize access to your account (including without limitation any subscription, products, services, or materials made available by the company); never use another user’s account without permission; be solely responsible for the activity that occurs on your account, and keep your account password secure; and notify us immediately of any breach of security or unauthorized use of your account. the company may allow free speech, debate, and sharing among our users. however, the company is opposed to language and acts that do not further the mission of the websites and our community, including personal attacks on other users. the company may, in its sole discretion, grant particular users the authority to moderate any and all user submissions. due to the volume of content, we may not review moderation decisions with users. in addition, individual moderators may adopt their own guidelines for chat rooms that they moderate. users are encouraged to follow these moderator guidelines, but at all times this code of conduct and the company’s privacy policy supersede such moderator guidelines to the extent that such guidelines are inconsistent with these terms or the company’s privacy policy. you may not circumvent any measures we may put in place to protect the privacy or confidentiality of your account or information, or the account or information of ourselves, our affiliates, or other users, including encryption measures or the use of multi-factor authentication. comments are closed. about timothy sykes i became a self-made millionaire by the age of 21, trading thousands of penny stocks - yep you read that right, penny stocks. you may have heard ... read more tim's important resources penny stocking 101: how to get started with penny stocks which penny stocks to buy how to invest in penny stocks home about affiliates chatroom contact tim ** results may not be typical and may vary from person to person. making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. there are inherent risks involved with investing in the stock market, including the loss of your investment. past performance in the market is not indicative of future results. any investment is at your own risk. see terms of service here.. millionaire media 80 s.w. 8th street suite 2000 miami, florida 33130 united states (203) 980-1361 this is for information purposes only as millionaire media llc nor timothy sykes is registered as a securities broker-dealer or an investment adviser. no information herein is intended as securities brokerage, investment, tax, accounting or legal advice, as an offer or solicitation of an offer to sell or buy, or as an endorsement, recommendation or sponsorship of any company, security or fund. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes cannot and does not assess, verify or guarantee the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information, the suitability or profitability of any particular investment, or the potential value of any investment or informational source. the reader bears responsibility for his/her own investment research and decisions, should seek the advice of a qualified securities professional before making any investment, and investigate and fully understand any and all risks before investing. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes in no way warrants the solvency, financial condition, or investment advisability of any of the securities mentioned in communications or websites. in addition, millionaire media llc and timothy sykes accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this information. this information is not intended to be used as the sole basis of any investment decision, nor should it be construed as advice designed to meet the investment needs of any particular investor. past performance is not necessarily indicative of future returns. ©2007-2020 timothysykes™ all rights reserved. millionaire publishing llc terms of service and user agreement privacy policy (statement) earnings disclosure member agreement code of conduct what people are saying we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.✖