cold climate gardening hardy plants for hardy souls home blog cold climate resources faq online information gardens and gardeners merchants magazines discussion forums books buy bixley’s book contact brian bixley best of the hardiest cold climate blogs clippings garden blog directory get your blog listed upstate ny resources online information native plants – upstate ny upstate ny gardens and gardeners nurseries blogs upstate ny regional forums upstate ny magazines a gardening vacation in ithaca upstate ny books promote your event plant info acquisitions blooming now colchicums the crocus bank: an essay daylilies forsythia hellebores hydrangeas mallow family narcissus cantatrice native & invasive peonies pests, plagues, and varmints brown marmorated stink bug – compiled wisdom more on stink bugs controlling stink bugs stink bug glossary roses seeds and seed starting seed savor: an essay snowdrops snowdrops: an essay food how to grow vegetables fruit recipes making pesto and cooking with pesto diy design habitat gardening garden chores hardscaping and projects how-to tools and equipment opinions book reviews interviews recommended links catalog review things i love series flowers on the brain garden blog pioneers lilactree farm mud season new house, new gardens front of the house cabin fever bed front walk parking pad bed the secret garden spreadsheets in gardening cottage gardening gardens and gardeners books discussion forums magazines archives essays about the labyrinth cantatrice a garden of many pleasures defiant gardening making pesto and cooking with pesto bringing home water purdyville and the drought of ’99 the dr brush mower seed savor snowdrops the crocus bank meditations about this site contact kathy’s speaking engagements contributors disclosure policy from my files guest post guidelines linking policy media mentions published work what others say all quotations narcissus poeticus ©cadence purdytrillium grandiflorum ©rundy purdygaywings (polygala paucifolia) ©cadence purdynarcissus 'vernal prince' ©kathy purdypink lady's slippers (cypripridium acaule) ©kathy purdydandelion (taraxacum officinale) ©justin purdyspring view at the old house. ©cadence purdya bouquet of gaywings (polygala paucifolia) ©cadence purdyvirginia bluebells (mertensia virginica) ©kathy purdyblue flax (linum perenne) ©cadence purdyapple blossoms at the old house. ©rundy purdy search ccg sign up for blog updates and our newsletter! * indicates required email address * first name * last name * sign me up for: blog post notifications newsletter view previous campaigns. welcome to cold climate gardening i’m so glad to have you visit! if you are looking for help gardening in a challenging cold or short-season climate, you’ve come to the right place! gardening in a cold climate isn’t more difficult than growing in other climates, as long as you grow plants suited to the climate and the soil. we’ve got pages of information–check out the menus above, browse the archives, or take advantage of the search box in the sidebar to the right. i’m kathy purdy, and i do most of the writing here, and we also have some excellent guest authors. we’d love to hear from you in the comments or the contact page. mud season 2020 by kathy purdy published on march 26, 2020 the course of true spring never did run smooth, but it's getting off to an early start this year! how many different kinds of plants do you have blooming during mud season? bet you i have more! read more 2 comments ten ways cold climate gardeners treat cabin fever a long winter is not for sissies. if you are new to the tribe of hardy plants and hardy souls, here are 10 time-honored ways to beat cabin fever. how many do you already practice? learn more how do you know if a plant is hardy? i was just reading graham rice's musings on plants that grow in the coldest climates. he observed that the resources he consulted did not agree on which plants were tough enough to take usda zone 2. if you've been gardening for any length of time (which of course graham has), this won't surprise you. first, [...] learn more why i garden why do i garden? why does an artist paint? why does a pianist spend days practicing for an hour long concert? the truth is, i don't know why i garden. i don't know why i have an affinity for plants, a need to see them thrive, a hungering for their beauty. as a child, i [...] learn more to have a successful garden, you need the three m’s: money, muscle and manure. ~kyle landt in “a symphony of flowers” by robin sweetser in the new hampshire home magazine website dated april 19, 2018 recent comments pat webster on mud season 2020 carol on mud season 2020 mud season 2020 on the crocus bank rockford beloit on adventures with paperwhites eileen on adventures with paperwhites kathy purdy on adventures with paperwhites eileen on adventures with paperwhites kathy purdy on adventures with paperwhites kathy purdy on adventures with paperwhites kathy purdy on adventures with paperwhites top posts & pages mud season 2020 how to create and maintain trails in your woods how to make garden beds without too much fuss welcome to cold climate gardening sights, sounds, and smells of spring why won't my forsythia bloom? coltsfoot: it's not a dandelion--wildflower wednesday march 2012 goldenrod: this native plant should be kept out of the garden peony poppies fairy gardens: preparing them for winter plus book giveaway copyright © 2002–2020 coldclimategardening.com. all rights reserved. wp admin