envato market web themes & templates code video audio graphics photos 3d files search popular files featured files top new files follow feed top authors top new authors public collections wordpress show all wordpress popular items blog / magazine buddypress corporate creative directory & listings ecommerce education elementor entertainment mobile nonprofit real estate retail technology wedding miscellaneous wordpress plugins on codecanyon hosting html show all html popular items admin templates corporate creative entertainment mobile nonprofit personal retail specialty pages technology wedding miscellaneous marketing show all marketing popular items email templates landing pages pagewiz unbounce landing pages google web designer ads on codecanyon cms show all cms popular items concrete5 drupal joomla modx themes moodle mura webflow weebly miscellaneous ecommerce show all ecommerce popular items woocommerce 3dcart bigcommerce cart66 cs-cart drupal commerce easy digital downloads ecwid jigoshop magento opencart oscommerce prestashop shopify ubercart virtuemart wp e-commerce zen cart muse show all muse popular items corporate creative ecommerce landing personal miscellaneous muse widgets on codecanyon ui design psd templates popular psd templates sketch templates popular sketch templates plugins logo maker business logo maker gaming logo maker twitch logo maker sports logo maker real estate logo maker medical logo maker service logo maker fitness brand logo maker clothing logo maker restaurant logo maker bar logo maker beauty logo maker bakery logo maker youtube logo maker more blogging courses facebook templates forums free elementor templates ghost themes jekyll tumblr typeengine themes guest cart 0 create an envato account sign in envato elements unlimited downloads envato elements: wordpress themes, plugins, video templates & more! unlimited downloads account sites, search & categories forums start selling menu our products digital assets subscription launch simple websites hire a freelancer tutorials & courses create designs, videos & mockups join the envato community learn from others in the forums cart 0 sign in web themes & templates code video audio graphics photos 3d files all items popular files featured files top new files follow feed top authors top new authors public collections view all categories wordpress popular items all items blog / magazine buddypress corporate creative directory & listings ecommerce education elementor entertainment mobile nonprofit real estate retail technology wedding miscellaneous wordpress plugins on codecanyon hosting html popular items all items admin templates corporate creative entertainment mobile nonprofit personal retail specialty pages technology wedding miscellaneous marketing popular items all items email templates landing pages pagewiz unbounce landing pages google web designer ads on codecanyon cms popular items all items concrete5 drupal joomla modx themes moodle mura webflow weebly miscellaneous ecommerce popular items all items woocommerce 3dcart bigcommerce cart66 cs-cart drupal commerce easy digital downloads ecwid jigoshop magento opencart oscommerce prestashop shopify ubercart virtuemart wp e-commerce zen cart muse popular items all items corporate creative ecommerce landing personal miscellaneous muse widgets on codecanyon ui design all items psd templates popular psd templates sketch templates popular sketch templates plugins logo maker all items business logo maker gaming logo maker twitch logo maker sports logo maker real estate logo maker medical logo maker service logo maker fitness brand logo maker clothing logo maker restaurant logo maker bar logo maker beauty logo maker bakery logo maker youtube logo maker more blogging courses facebook templates forums free elementor templates ghost themes jekyll tumblr typeengine themes search home files wordpress education colead | coaching & online courses wordpress theme colead | coaching & online courses wordpress theme $64 item details reviews comments support item details item details reviews comments support live preview share facebook google plus twitter pinterest add to favorites add to collection speaker & life coach wordpress theme (coaching wp) is a stunning, flexible and multipurpose wp theme for speakers, mentors, trainers, therapists, and training, coaches. its ultimate aim is to help individuals and businesses in the coaching industry promote their speeches, services, and consultancies to the world easier. coaching wp’s uniqueness is due to its amazingly beautiful designs and easy to use website template solution that maximizes user satisfaction. the speaker and coaching theme made only for you. do you want to help people and inspire others? are you an entrepreneur, a public speaker, a mentor, a fitness trainer, a doctor, a health coach, a physical therapist, a nutritionist, a personal trainer, a facilitator, a dietician or a professional consultant agency? do you need an outstanding website displaying your portfolio for your services and sharing your thoughts, your upcoming events or your courses? you want something that is easy to use, easy to install and doesn’t take much of your time? you want your website to be as inspiring as you are? the awesome multipurpose life coach wp template even though the titles may be different, a great life or health coach, a great mentor, a great speaker and a great trainer all need one thing in common – a branding website as awesome as they are. great ui/ux design is always the first thing that comes to our mind when developing this theme. this is even truer in the industry of coaching, where every feeling arises when visiting the web can be a big factor contributing to their buying decision. the second most important factor of a phenomenon website is all the functionalities and features it offers. coaching wp is lucky to inherit all advanced features from the best-selling education wordpress theme (education wp) and the most used wordpress lms – learnpress lms plugin. as a commitment to help your business grow, we even included with the theme a full package of learnpress premium add-ons – learnpress theme bundle for free. click here to claim your bonus bundle after you have bought coaching wp. this allows you to have the total freedom to your website while enjoying one of the highest quality wordpress theme. (this is not a bonus, gift, rebate or an additional freebie as it is included in the theme as part of the theme like woocommerce, revolution slider, font-awesome, etc. but since it’s large and contains many different add-ons that might be unnecessary to some, it is given this way so you can choose which one to install on your own.) therefore, empowering with great design and great features, this theme can help your company stand out from the competition and win effortlessly. easy to use and install coaching wordpress theme one click demo install ever heard of the saying “simplicity is the ultimate sophistication”? while we give you a powerful theme that has the capability to deal with many events, courses for plenty of users, we also give you the simplest method of managing and installing. with one click demo install, your dream coaching website will be up and running in less than 30 minutes, save a ton of your time, your money, and your effort. drag and drop page builder what is more wonderful than being able to build your website on your own with your own design and idea? it is to be able to build your own website in a few minutes without having to write a single line of code. we use siteorigin drag and drop page builder to give you the best experience of building your own page. you don’t have to do much, just drag and drop, and you’ll have the site of your dream in almost no time. even if you are an experienced developer, this would be even better because it assists you in speeding up the theme’s customizing process. new! coaching wp now compatible with wp bakery page builder (formerly known as visual composer) as we always strive for the best and always want to bring the highest quality product to everyone, from july 2018, we have included the most popular premium wp page builder – wp bakery page builder in the theme coaching wp. this will help you build your own consulting and coaching website easier than ever. to use this page builder, you must select the page builder upon installing the theme’s demo. if you installed site origin pagebuilder, you will need to reinstall the theme on another site to be able to switch to wp bakery page builder. the best keeps getting better! special effects for lasting impressions “first impression lasts!”. if your website is not attractive and is not impressive enough, it will be wiped off of your customer’s mind. as we have mentioned many times and again, we focus heavily on ui/ux design and special effects that are both interesting and elegant to make your customer, your trainee, your mentee a lasting impression about your website and your service in their mind. adorable portfolio when it comes to a branding website, especially for the niche of coaching, mentoring and training, portfolios and galleries are something people would always want to see. understanding of this demand, we tried to make it look as impressive and elegant as possible. your visitors will always think of you and your service as a professional and trustworthy place to go to. revolution slider the best speaker and mentor deserve the best presentation. and we find no better presentation than to use revolution slider with a numerous of icons, animations, and effects to introduce you. you will be able to add as many sliders as you like on your website for the price of none, so you can save money to do other better things for your company. introduction boxes with special effects this introduction box is the best way to surprise your visitors when they interact with your call to action. in the example, when hovering into the cta of getting a coaching book, look for the next scheduled coaching event or go to the online course, an elegant and professional card are displayed with detail information. how could a normal user can resist the temptation of getting involved with such an organization that professional? unique testimonial the testimonial section is also a breakthrough that can display fully customer’s’ feedback with their face, their name, and title, bringing a sense of trust to your site. apart from that, this part’s layout is totally different from that of many other themes, making this a unique feature and unique experience to your customer. smart event management system the event listing system integrated into coaching wp is smartly designed to make the upcoming event stands out so that people won’t miss it. together with a countdown clock timer, people will know when to attend the event. this is proven to be an effective ux design that will bring you more clients. mobile first, responsive and retina ready in this digital era, being able to display perfectly on different devices is indispensable. one reason for this is because of the wide variety of your visitors may come from different places and the wide spread of handheld devices. this theme can perform well in all device. quick, grab your iphone and see how this theme can display perfectly on your mobile device. learnpress lms – courses management made easy as you are helping people with your knowledge, you will soon realize the power of elearning, the power of spreading knowledge to thousands of people with just a click. there needs to be a strong system to take care of this, and especially when you are promoting your course, the system needs to be the best to make sure nothing went wrong along the way. learnpress lms is currently the most used wordpress lms on wordpress.org. it is also the lms we developed and used successfully with education wp – the best-selling education wordpress theme. therefore, your system is safe and is ready for you to go big, to go viral. timeline- display and scrolling when talking about a human, or an organization, people often talk about the past. and the easiest way to do that is to visualize using timeline design so that people can scroll between the past and the now to have an extensive view. this great feature is limited to only a few theme and this speaker and coaching wordpress theme is one of a few that has it. keep calm and enjoy! full site search engine optimization seo-ing is as important as the air to breathe. coaching wp is optimized for seo in the following ways to make sure google fall in love with your website: on-page optimized with all tags, meta, text, and fields and we even follow google’s structured data guidelines. speed optimized for faster site loading and better search engine ranking. a powerful life coach theme from an a team with 100% satisfaction support the foundation of a good theme also lies in its support quality. however powerful and flexible it may be, there’s still conflicts with other plugins, there’s still some parts that are difficult to some people. we take this openly and seriously. for that reason, we built an enthusiast support team willing to answer any of your queries, explain any of the misunderstand you have. so, don’t worry, we got your back! author ratings the theme is new, so it hasn’t got any rating and review yet. however, let’s take a look at what the customers are talking about us – the team behind this coaching wp theme. 11,000+ people are using this theme with almost 4,000+ schools, and educational centers are using our education and lms themes. they must not be wrong. forum support & detail documentation as best most of our satisfied customer loved us for our supporting quality. to do that, we invest largely in building a set of detail documentation along with tutorial videos and a forum support monitoring by the development team of this life coach theme. frequently updated the final characteristic of a good theme, and of this coach wordpress theme is that it should frequently be updated. this is a vital process to ensure the theme has no bug and is compatible with the latest technology. you cannot build a castle using outdated approaches. full feature list coaching wp is a creative clean clegant coaching and life coaching, speaker wordpress theme. coaching wp is suitable for trainer, mentor, coaching, business coaching, one on one coaching, etc. if you are looking to build a successful and gorgeous coaching website, coaching wp is definitely the coaching wordpress theme for you. learnpress – wordpress lms plugin powerful lms courses management with drag & drop course curriculum. integrates many payment methods: paypal, 2checkout, stripe, authorize.net or offline payment method. course collection course review/rating multiple question types for quiz student & instructor profile multiple instructors for each course paid membership pro certificate for student and many amazing features… 4+ homepage demos include one-click importer. woocommerce support awesome slider with revolution slider drag & drop page builder with siteorigin countdown event management support custom widgets and many columns layouts fully responsive support 600+ fonts and 700+ icons highly performance optimized optimized for seo unlimited color schemes contact form 7 supported wpml ready amazing menu with mega menu mailchimp for wordpress and so much more! what now? are you still having thoughts or questions about this theme? don’t hesitate to leave us a comment in the comment tab and we will give you our best support we can give. hesitation will get you nowhere. join the coaching community now! changelog coaching wordpress theme 3.3.1 2020-10-03 + fixed: can't install plugin learpress
+ fixed some minor bugs (outdated template in woocommerce). coaching wordpress theme 3.3.0 2019-10-10 + added a brand new instructor pre-built demo.
+ improved styles.
+ fixed some minor bugs (outdated template in woocommerce). coaching wordpress theme 3.2.0 2019-06-03 + added a brand new therapist pre-built demo.
+ improved styles. coaching wordpress theme 3.1.0 2019-05-24 + added a brand new gym pre-built demo.
+ improved styles.
+ fixed some minor bugs (outdated template in woocommerce 3.6.3 and learnpress 3.2.5). coaching wordpress theme 3.0.0 2019-04-22 */ + supported elementor page builder (7 prebuilt demos ready).
+ improved wordpress 5.0 compatibility.
+ improved styles.
+ fixed some minor bugs (outdated template in woocommerce 3.6.0).
 coaching wordpress theme 2.3.4 2019-01-30 + improved login popup.
+ improved styles.
+ improved google captcha integration.
+ fixed some minor bugs (style conflict with miniorange plugin...). coaching wordpress theme 2.3.3 2018-10-16 + updated languages.
+ improved styles (responsive, rtl...).
+ fixed some minor bugs (wrong author link in testimonials widget, number events option in list event widget...). coaching wordpress theme 2.3.2 2018-09-06 + improved vc shortcodes.
+ improved styles (responsive, rtl, curriculum...).
+ fixed some minor bugs (outdated template in learnpress 3.0.12, some words with wrong text domain...). coaching wordpress theme 2.3.1 2018-07-17 + updated demo data.
+ add new demo effective
+ fixed some minor bugs coaching wordpress theme 2.3.0 2018-06-28 + supported wpbakery page builder.
+ updated demo data.
+ improved styles.
+ fixed some minor bugs (issue with login redirect...). coaching wordpress theme 2.2.8 2018-05-24 + improved styles.
+ fixed some minor bugs (outdated template in learnpress 3.0.9 and woocommerce 3.4.0). coaching wordpress theme 2.2.7 2018-05-22 + improved styles.
+ fixed some minor bugs (outdated template in learnpress 3.0.8). coaching wordpress theme 2.2.6 2018-05-10 + improved events list widget (add category filter, add event status filter).
+ improved styles (rtl and responsive).
+ fixed some minor bugs (issue with loading more reviews, remove some deprecated functions, wrong course-forum url...). coaching wordpress theme 2.2.5 2018-04-11 + improved styles.
+ fixed some minor bugs (notice on 404 pages, notice in event pages, issue with toolbar display option...). coaching wordpress theme 2.2.4 2018-03-30 + improved styles.
+ fixed some minor bugs (outdated template in learnpress 3.0.4, issue with some customize options...). coaching wordpress theme 2.2.3 2018-03-23 + improved styles (coming soon courses, courses colection, rtl...).
+ fixed some minor bugs (issue with learnpress 3.x, notices in event pages...). coaching wordpress theme 2.2.2 2018-03-15 + prepared for the next learnpress 3.0.
+ updated styles (rtl, responsive...).
+ fixed some minor bugs (issue with update cart button, issue with some widgets...). coaching wordpress theme 2.2.1 2018-03-05 + prepared for the next learnpress 3.0.
+ improved widgets (multi addresses for google map widget, support videos for round slider widget...).
+ updated styles (demo business, widgets...).
+ fixed health coaching 3 demo data.
+ fixed woocommerce outdated templates.
 coaching wordpress theme 2.2 2018-02-13 + prepared for the next learnpress 3.0.
+ updated styles (demo business, woocommerce ...).
+ fixed woocommerce outdated templates.
+ fixed some minor bugs (issue with wc product description, issue with wpengine, ...).
 coaching wordpress theme 2.1.3 2018-01-17 + updated styles.
+ updated new documentation.
+ fixed some minor bugs (issue with wc product thumbnail, issue with portfolio plugin, ...). coaching wordpress theme 2.1.2 2018-01-09 + added blank page template.
+ prepared for the next learnpress 3.0.
+ improved styles (rtl, responsive, description on single product pages, testimonial width...).
+ fixed some minor bugs (issue with social sharing, issues with mobile view, payment for events...). coaching wordpress theme 2.1.1 2017-12-01 + updated rtl demo data.
+ improved wordpress 4.9 compatibility.
+ improved styles (rtl, responsive...).
+ fixed xss issues. coaching wordpress theme 2.1.0 2017-11-03 + updated learnpress (version 2.1.9.3) outdated templates.
+ updated woocommerce (version 3.2.3) outdated templates.
+ added option to show/hide category description.
+ added new option to adjust course tabs (menu customize / courses / single pages).
+ supported membership features.
+ fixed some minor bugs (issue with wc variant products, issues with mobile view, payment for events...).
 coaching wordpress theme 2.0.1 2017-09-28 + required pricing plus table plugin.
+ updated events order.
+ improved widgets (update font for icon box widget, update image size for images widget).
+ updated styles.
+ fixed some minor bugs (logo issue, login link in event page, lesson duration, issue with aq_resize...)
 coaching wordpress theme 2.0 2017-08-29 + added a brand new pre-built demo for business.
+ added thim core plugin (new customizer, new post meta, new demo importer...).
+ improved widgets.
+ updated styles.
+ fixed some minor bugs.
 coaching wordpress theme 1.7 2017-06-23 + supported our team archive page.
+ improved some widgets.
+ improved styles.
+ prepared for the next learnpress 2.1.7.
+ fixed some minor bugs (start quiz & re-take quiz issues, lesson status issue...).
 coaching wordpress theme 1.6.0 2017-04-28 + update options related post/courses
+ update: slider revolution v5.4.3.1
+ fixed: some minor issues coaching wordpress theme 1.5.9 2017-04-14 + fixed outdated of learnpress
+ update languages theme
+ updated wp events manager
+ update style login, register form event coaching wordpress theme 1.5.8.1 – 2017-04-12 + fixed countdown in single event
+ fixed priority of style.css for child theme
+ updated for new version siteorigin coaching wordpress theme 1.5.8 – 2017-04-10 + changed priority of style.css for child theme
+ fixed link read more in related course
+ updated meta box for course
+ updated event countdown widget
+ fixed outdated woocommerce
+ updated image demo coaching wordpress theme 1.5.7 – 2017-03-29 + fixed outdated of learnpress.
+ update languages theme.
+ fixed error deactivate learnpress course review.
+ updated countdown in widget thim list event.
+ included map to event. coaching wordpress theme 1.5.6.1 – 2017-03-23 + improved widget thim heading.
+ update event 2.0 package. coaching wordpress theme 1.5.6 – 2017-03-21 + fix get number related post
+ update languages theme
+ update event 2.0
+ fixed mini cart woocommerce
+ improved setting testimonial
+ improved widget thim login popup coaching wordpress theme 1.5.5.1 – 2017-03-02 + update version theme
+ fix missing add to cart in variable product coaching wordpress theme 1.5.5 – 2017-03-01 + fixed outdated of learnpress
+ fix excerpt in course
+ fix date format in event
+ fix sort by category in widget course coaching wordpress theme 1.5.4 – 2017-01-19 + added option to hide learnpress ads.
+ fixed timeformat on list event and single event.
+ fixed rating in course.
+ included social login. coaching wordpress theme 1.5.3 – 2017-01-12 + fixed outdated of learnpress.
+ update style profile.
+ fixed checkout course.
+ fixed autoplay testimonial.
+ fixed time format on widget list event. coaching wordpress theme 1.5.2 – 2017-01-03 + fixed outdated of learnpress.
+ improved style popup course. coaching wordpress theme 1.5.1 – 2016-12-27 + improved style popup course. coaching wordpress theme 1.5 – 2016-12-21 + improved demo data. coaching wordpress theme 1.4.1 – 2016-12-20 + fixed outdated of learnpress coaching wordpress theme 1.4 – 2016-12-13 + improved style responsive.
+ improved style homepage.
+ released style demo health coaching 3. coaching wordpress theme 1.3.1 – 2016-12-06 + improved style responsive.
+ improved style demo health coaching 2.
+ fixed outdated of learnpress. coaching wordpress theme 1.3 – 2016-11-30 + improved style demo rtl.
+ released demo health coaching 2. coaching wordpress theme 1.2 – 2016-11-21 + released demo rtl.
+ fix bug take this course. coaching wordpress theme 1.1.1 – 2016-11-17 + improved style course archive.
+ improved style single course.
+ updated addons for learnpress. coaching wordpress theme 1.1.0 – 2016-11-10 + released demo health coaching.
+ improved styles homepage.
+ improved style events archive.
+ updated addons for learnpress 2.0. coaching wordpress theme 1.0.2 – 2016-11-02 + supported learnpress 2.0.
+ updated demo data. coaching wordpress theme 1.0.1 – 2016-10-27 + updated prepare for learnpress 2.0. coaching wordpress theme 1.0.0 – 2016-10-27 + released coaching wordpress theme. show more show less more items by thimpress view author portfolio regular license regular license selected $64 use, by you or one client, in a single end product which end users are not charged for. the total price includes the item price and a buyer fee. extended license selected $2950 use, by you or one client, in a single end product which end users can be charged for. the total price includes the item price and a buyer fee. view license details regular license extended license $64 included: quality checked by envato included: future updates included: theme hosting offer included: 6 months support from thimpress what does support include? extend support to 12 months $19.50 get it now and save up to $26 price is in us dollars. price displayed excludes sales tax. add to cart buy now power elite author thimpress view portfolio 4,593 sales 627 comments item rating: 4.83 stars 4.83 average based on 173 ratings. (more information) 5 star 91% 91% 4 star 5% 5% 3 star 0% 0% 2 star 1% 1% 1 star 1% 1% last update 14 march 20 created 27 october 16 gutenberg optimized yes high resolution yes widget ready yes compatible browsers ie10, ie11, firefox, safari, opera, chrome, edge compatible with elementor, woocommerce 4.0.x, woocommerce 3.9.x, woocommerce 3.8.x, woocommerce 3.7.x, woocommerce 3.6.x, woocommerce 3.5.x, woocommerce 3.4.x, woocommerce 3.3.x, woocommerce 3.2.x, woocommerce 3.1.x, woocommerce 3.0.x, wpbakery page builder 5.5.x, wpbakery page builder 5.4.x, wpbakery page builder 5.3, wpbakery page builder 5.2.x, wpml, bootstrap 4.x, bootstrap 3.x software version wordpress 5.3.x, wordpress 5.2.x, wordpress 5.1.x, wordpress 5.0.x, wordpress 4.9.x, wordpress 4.8.x, wordpress 4.7.x themeforest files included php files, css files, js files columns 4+ documentation well documented layout responsive tags business, coach, coaching, coaching wordpress theme, consulting, corporate, eduma, health coach, health coaching, learnpress, life coach, life coaching, life coaching wordpress theme, mentor, training © all rights reserved thimpress contact the envato market help team deliver better projects faster. web, design & video assets unlimited downloads, from $16.50/month effortless design and video. made online by you. smart templates ready for any skill level. designers matched perfectly to you on envato studio 2000 artists ready to undertake your work quick links explore popular categories web themes & templates portfolio wordpress themes business wordpress themes wordpress hosting portfolio website templates responsive website templates video after effects templates apple motion templates video effects free video stock footage stock footage audio royalty free music sound effects best selling royalty free music logic pro files background music code wordpress plugins php script javascript css templates prestashop plugins graphics logo templates business card templates lightroom presets serif fonts free art & illustration images photos food stock photos animal stock photos tech stock photos fitness stock photos nature stock photos design maker logo maker business card maker t-shirt maker banner maker flyer maker video maker intro maker slideshow maker instagram story video maker promo video maker teaser video maker elements wordpress themes stock images website templates logos fonts tuts+ photoshop tutorials javascript tutorials wordpress tutorials free online tutorials free coding tutorials envato market terms licenses market api become an affiliate help themes and templates authors help center join our community community blog forums meetups 58,513,582 items sold $810,271,392 community earnings about envato careers privacy policy sitemap all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax © 2020 envato pty ltd. trademarks and brands are the property of their respective owners. by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax