skip to content college info geek menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills remote view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new remote work, learn, and succeed from the comforts of your own home. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search become a better student. college info geek is a resource built from the ground up to help you study effectively, earn better grades, and become more productive (even if you're not in college). hi, i'm thomas frank. my team and i built college info geek from the ground up to help you learn effectively, spend less time studying, and become more productive (even if you're not in college). get started here popular articles the ultimate guide to building a personal website how to easily stay organized and productive in college how to make an extra $1,000 a month (25 ways that actually work) listen and learn: the 40 best educational podcasts in 2020 view more explore the site you’ll find hundreds of articles, videos, and podcast episodes on college info geek. to start exploring, choose one of the categories below! study more effectively ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. be more productive get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. start your career learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. live a better life build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. get the book with over 700 5-star reviews on amazon, 10 steps to earning awesome grades is one of the world’s most widely-read study skills books… and i want to send you a copy for free. just hit the button below. get the book the latest & greatest how to beat the afternoon slump and regain your focus how to write a networking email that gets a response (with templates) how to get an internship (and stand out from the competition) how to become a freelance writer (and find your first client) take my free class on mastering habits building habits isn’t just about discipline; there are real-world steps you can take to set yourself up for success! in this course, you'll learn how to set realistic goals, handle failure without giving up, and get going on the habits you want in your life. learn more tools, gear, and books we’ve spent dozens of hours curating the best books, apps, and other tools out there for improving your life as a student. check out our guides below. resources and tools for students essential books for students what to bring to college: the ultimate college packing list the ultimate study music playlist the best podcast for students learn how to be a more effective student, even while you’re doing your laundry. the college info geek podcast features in-depth, actionable advice for boosting your productivity, earning better grades, paying off your student loans, and more. new episodes go live every other monday morning at 8am est. get subscribed! apple podcasts google play spotify youtube featured episodes tom and martin discuss working from home 5 questions: interruptions, social media bios, and reading positions how to live a less lonely life ultralearning view more more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.