about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ comment policy welcome to cookie and kate. i’m so glad you stopped by and hope you become a regular visitor and commenter. we welcome your constructive feedback. if you decide to write a comment, i ask that you follow the basic rules and guidelines presented below. if you wouldn’t say it in person, please don’t say it here. cookie and kate reserves the right to restrict comments that do not contribute constructively to the conversation at hand, contain profanity or crude language, personal attacks, false information, copyrighted information or seek to promote a personal or unrelated business. (to clarify on the last point, please don’t add a self-promoting shout-out to your url in the comment field.) any post found to be in violation of any of these guidelines will be modified to remove the offending text or deleted without warning. by submitting your content, you grant cookie and kate permission to reproduce your content to our discretion. for example, i occasionally include your comments as endorsements in recipe roundups and media kits. if you don’t want your comment to be used for such purposes, explicitly state so within the body of your comment and i will respect your wishes. if you find evidence of copyright infringement in the comments of cookieandkate.com, contact me at at hello@cookieandkate.com and i will remove the offending material as soon as possible. questions or concerns? please contact me via email at at hello@cookieandkate.com. the fine print: any and all content, comments, feedback, suggestions, ideas, concepts, questions or other communications (collectively “user content”) that you submit or post on the site shall be deemed non-confidential and non-proprietary. by submitting or posting any user content, you grant to cookie and kate a perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free, worldwide, sublicensable and transferable license to copy, publish, translate, modify, create derivative works from, distribute, reproduce or use the user content in any commercial or non-commercial manner whatsoever. cookie and kate will be free to use any ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques contained in such user content for any purpose whatsoever, including but not limited to developing, manufacturing and marketing products that incorporate or otherwise rely upon such information. cookie and kate shall have no obligation to monitor user content, use or display user content, compensate you for submitting user content, or respond to any user content. cookie and kate retains the right, in its sole discretion and without prior notice, to remove, revise or refuse to post any user content for any reason or no reason. by submitting user content, you represent and warrant that the user content does not (i) contain false or misleading information, (ii) infringe on the intellectual property rights of any third party, (iii) contain any libelous, defamatory, obscene, offensive, threatening or otherwise harassing content, (iv) contain any addresses, email addresses, phone numbers or any contact information or (v) contain computer viruses, worms or other harmful files. you are solely responsible for the user content and you hereby agree to indemnify and hold cookie and kate and its employees, agents and affiliates harmless from any and all damages, claims, expenses, costs or fees arising from or in connection with a breach of any of the foregoing representations or your violation of any law or rights of a third party. this policy was last modified on 3/2/2020. hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}