u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of multicultural/hpmg news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition communities jordan peele ellen degeneres colin kaepernick the 20 funniest tweets from women this week "i now understand why retired people eat dinner so early." by hollis miller the megan thee stallion-approved ‘savage challenge’ is helping keep us all sane keara wilson, a 19-year-old choreographer, created the dance that’s going viral and got the rapper’s single to no. 1 on itunes. by taryn finley lgbtq homeless fear violence, illness as coronavirus shuts shelters advocates say the closures will have a devastating impact on the queer community's most vulnerable members. by matthew lavietes, reuters trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad english priest is on fire in first online worship service. literally. rev. stephen beach met his match while filming a service from home after his church suspended its gatherings over the coronavirus pandemic. by carol kuruvilla huffpost her stories: the anxiety of giving birth amid the coronavirus plus: a book to read while you’re stuck at home. by sara bondioli newsletter sign up black voices amplifying black voices through news that matters. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. the 20 funniest tweets from women this week "welp, turns out i don’t want to eat salad in the apocalypse either." by hollis miller detroit man convicted in killings of 2 gay men, transgender woman devon kareem robinson, 19, could face life behind bars without the possibility of parole. by ap asian people are being targeted by racist attacks. here's how you can be an ally. the coronavirus pandemic is fueling racism that often unfolds right in front of bystanders. by josephine harvey pope francis to livestream prayers amid coronavirus fears the pontiff has canceled his main public appearances to avoid crowds gathering to see him. by philip pullella, reuters mormons suspend worship, buddhists livestream services over coronavirus fears as the covid-19 pandemic hit the u.s., houses of worship have had to make quick and often unprecedented changes to faith practices. by carol kuruvilla huffpost her stories: let's talk about menopause plus: what coronavirus means for sex workers. by sara bondioli what it's like to be a black widow leslie gray streeter's memoir about grief is funny, sad and real. when a critic said it wasn’t “top shelf,” she said, "i was like, 'i’m the mid-price vodka of memoirs.'" by samantha storey transgender pastor defies court and conducts same-sex marriages in hong kong previously, marrz balaoro wed couples in secret to avoid being arrested. by michael taylor, reuters coronavirus outbreak disrupts purim celebrations in some jewish communities in the city of new rochelle, a few miles north of new york city, the rabbi of the young israel synagogue has the virus. by david crary, ap here's how inspiring women around the world celebrated international women's day michelle obama, greta thunberg, emma watson, nancy pelosi and many more shared what the day means to them. by josephine harvey brigham young university students protest school's 'same-sex romantic behavior' stance owned by the church of jesus christ of latter day saints, byu just updated its "honor code," leading many to believe it had become more lgbtq inclusive. by brady mccombs, ap canada introduces bill to ban 'gay conversion' therapy nationwide if the legislation passes, canada would become the fourth country in the world to make the medically denounced practice illegal. by jack graham, reuters no, keri hilson, 5g did not cause coronavirus the singer tweeted a conspiracy theory that blamed the covid-19 pandemic on radiation from new technology. by taryn finley the rebirth of karrueche tran the "claws" and "deputy" actor's fight to be taken seriously in hollywood has led her to step away from her past baggage. by taryn finley u.s. spanish speakers may not be getting timely coronavirus updates most of the government's warnings about covid-19 are in english and may not be reaching millions of america's spanish speakers. by astrid galvan and regina garcia cano, ap newsletter sign up black voices amplifying black voices through news that matters. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of multicultural/hpmg news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.