skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events comment policy we strive to create a fun, friendly, and inviting atmosphere. the ground rules for commenting on wp tavern are simple: treat people with dignity and respect. try to understand someone else’s perspective, and if you disagree, respectfully explain why. unless you have a formal training in writing, text can be a difficult medium in which to express ideas. some also have a hard time deciphering context. emoticons and emoji help, but it does not solve the problem. it is best to assume someone leaving a comment has the best of intentions before responding. a good rule of thumb is to always approach discussions with an open mind. we welcome different perspectives and viewpoints, but we all need to clearly communicate them without tearing the opposition down in the process. try to stay on point by using concise language. deletion of comments your comment may be deleted if it matches any of the following criteria: is mean-spirited or otherwise meant to disparage others. contains personal attacks, including those using racist or sexist terms. uses vulgar, profane, or unnecessarily harsh language. makes a claim as factual without proof. impersonates someone else. is written anonymously. advocates an illegal practice. is spam or appears to be written primarily to post a link or advertise. contains copyrighted material not licensed for distribution on the site. contains an affiliate link. these guidelines are not meant to be an exhaustive list. the deletion of comments is wholly within the discretion of the moderators at wp tavern, and we will err on the side of maintaining a safe and friendly community. write a blog post instead if your comment is more than a few paragraphs long, consider publishing it on your own website. writing your thoughts down in blog post can help your ideas mature. it allows you to more rationally approach issues and think them through in a way that is nearly impossible to do in the form of a comment. one of the great things about wordpress is that it allows anyone to publish content. everyone gets their own soapbox, so to speak. by writing a thoughtful blog post, it enriches the conversation more than quick comments ever will. and, if you write a response post, let us know about it by linking to it in the comments. how do i report comments? please do not publicly report comments using social media such as facebook or twitter. if you believe a comment published on wp tavern violates any of the listed guidelines or that you feel needs special attention, click the report button next to the comment. after a certain threshold is hit, the comment is sent to moderation requiring administrative review. you may also use the contact form to send us a message at any time. recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram