close mobile menu search this website home start here about resources podcast blog health beauty mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel reviews recipes beef recipes breakfast recipes condiment recipes dessert recipes drink recipes pork recipes poultry recipes salad recipes seafood recipes side dish recipes snack recipes soup & stew recipes newsletter shop menu skip to right header navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer simple answers for healthier families about start here resources podcast blog beauty health mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel recipes reviews shop search you are here: home » comment policy comment policy comments are welcomed and encouraged on wellnessmama.com, as you, the reader, are such a huge part of what makes this community so special. i am dedicated to maintaining this website as a place for open and respectful discussion, so there are a few things that i do not allow, and instances when comments will be edited or deleted. all comments are subject to these terms of use and any commenter in violation of this policy may be banned at my sole discretion. before commenting, please also consult the terms of service, privacy policy, full disclaimer, and affiliate disclosure which govern all content on wellnessmama.com, including anything you post in the comments. accessing this website or leaving a comment indicates acceptance of these policies. official wellness mama comment policy when deciding to comment, please keep in mind the famous words of the great philosopher aretha franklin: r-e-s-p-e-c-t i welcome open discussion and disagreement in comments, but rude or personally attacking comments will be deleted. think of it this way: when you join the discussion on one of my articles here at wellnessmama.com, it is like stepping into my living room. i’m glad to have you here and always enjoy good conversation with friends, but if you start acting like a jerk by name calling, insulting other people, or promoting your product or service, i will ask you to leave. period. my blog, my rules. comments guidelines comments that don’t contribute to the conversation, are obviously spam, promotional in nature, or intended for back-link purposes will be deleted and the author banned from future commenting ability. please use your real first name and email address. do not use a business name, blog name, nickname, initials, or any other fake name when commenting. failure to do so will cause your comment to be marked as spam, deleted, or edited to conform to these guidelines and your comment will not be replied to. please do not put your personal blog or business website url in the comment text unless it directly contributes to the comment and/or the conversation taking place, as it will cause your comment to be marked as spam and most likely deleted, or edited to conform to these guidelines. do not add a website name or url as your signature, as it will be deleted. if you’ve never left a comment before and your first one includes a link, it will most likely be deleted automatically by the spam filter. please use proper spelling, grammar, punctuation, and letter casing when commenting. occasional unintentional mistakes happen (i’m guilty of it too!), but for the sake of comprehension, readability and clear dialog, please make a sincere effort to follow basic english writing decorum. comments which are unintelligible and/or don’t follow this policy will be edited or deleted to meet these guidelines. before asking a question in the comments, please read through all of the post’s prior comments to see if your question has already been asked by another reader and answered. if the same or similar question was previously answered, your comment will most likely not be responded to. in accordance with the terms of service and privacy policy, please assume that any comment you post on wellnessmama.com is being posted publicly. by posting a comment on this website or in associated web forums you are giving wellness mama® the exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free, sublicenseable and transferable license to use, reproduce, distribute, prepare derivative works of, display, perform, and otherwise use your comment in any way that i see fit. the following applies to all comments posted on wellnessmama.com: all rights reserved: i reserve the right to edit, delete, move, or mark as spam any and all comments. i also reserve the right to block access via ip address to anyone or group from commenting, subscribing to, and from accessing wellnessmama.com for violation of this comment policy. links: comments containing links are automatically held in moderation. any link included in a comment which is blatantly self promotional (such as linking to a personal mlm or network marketing page) without genuinely contributing to the conversation will be marked as spam and the comment immediately deleted. repeated attempts will cause the user email and ip address to be blacklisted from commenting further. links that are relevant and contribute to the conversation within the comments of the blog post may be allowed, but if in doubt, please leave it out. copyright/plagiarism: if notice is received that a comment contains proprietary, copyrighted or plagiarized information, the offending comment will be deleted and the commenter blocked from further commenting ability. email: an authentic, verified, email address is required for commenting and comment subscriptions. personal email addresses are never published on the blog nor shared with any 3rd party. your email address may be used by the blog owner (me) to privately contact you. by commenting on this blog, you are agreeing that i have the right to contact you via email in response to your comment, and for informational and promotional purposes. you can unsubscribe from blog comment notifications and email correspondence at any time. privacy: i take your privacy very seriously. comments and messages containing email addresses, physical mail addresses, phone numbers, and any private or personal information will be edited or deleted to protect the privacy of the affected party. to prevent such editing or deletion, never share private information within wellnessmama.com blog comments or social media forums. please read the privacy policy for more information. respect: comments which include offensive or inappropriate language, or considered by the blog owner (me) to be rude and offensive, will be deleted and the commenter banned from future use. no personal attacks are permitted in this blog’s comments. you may question or argue the content, but not attack the post author, nor any other commenter. failure to respect fellow participants on this blog will result in removal and blocked access. as a general rule, if you would not say it directly to or in the presence of your mother, grandmother, or two-year-old child, don’t say it to me or another commenter. relevance: please keep all comments on topic and relevant to the post being read. comments that are an obvious attempt at promotional purposes, intended to gain traffic, backlinks, brand exposure, or increased personal site traffic will be deleted and the commenter will be blocked from further wellnessmama.com interaction. if you leave a comment or question that is unrelated to the post topic, it will likely go unanswered. if you have a question about a specific health topic, please search for it using the provided search box. or you can suggest a topic for a future blog post using the contact form. spam: any comment deemed as spam will be deleted and marked as comment spam. commenters who repeatedly post spam will be blacklisted from commenting in the future, and their ip address blocked from accessing wellnessmama.com. liability: all comments within this blog are the responsibility of the individual commenter. by submitting a comment on wellnessmama.com, you agree that the comment content is your own, and to hold this site, wellness mama®, and all post authors and commenters harmless. gravatar: for easiest commenting, please consider signing up for a gravatar (you can do that by clicking here). this will allow your comment to be approved faster, and allow your picture to automatically display next to your comment. what to do if your comment does not appear: please be patient. all comments are moderated and are not approved right away. please do not submit the same comment twice unless you think your original comment was not submitted correctly the first time. this entire comment policy can be summarized in these simple words: be respectful and use common sense wellness mama is not a democracy and you don’t have freedom of speech on my blog. i reserve the right to edit any comment as i see fit. if you disagree with any of the above listed guidelines, please refrain from commenting or start your own blog so you can share your opinions with the world. no medical advice please note that since i am not a doctor, lawyer, or health care professional, i am unable to answer any questions related to these topics, even in response to comments and questions. while i share my own personal experience in the hope of inspiring you to make conscious health decisions after consulting with a qualified professional, i can’t offer any advice for a specific problem or condition, and comments or questions asking medical advice will not be answered. the information contained on this website, or provided at your request, is for informational purposes only. no information on wellnessmama.com is or should be used for the purposes of diagnosing, treating, preventing, or curing any disease. the information on this website has not been evaluated by the food and drug administration. nothing on this website is intended to recommend any particular form of medical treatment or that persons manage their own health problems without the advice of a licensed health care practitioner. you should always consult a qualified medical professional before making any health decision or taking any product or supplement. information found or received through this website should not be used in place of a visit with, call to, consultation, or advice from a professional health care provider. if you suspect you have a medical problem, or should you have any health care related questions, please promptly call or visit your health care practitioner. no information on this site should be used to diagnose, treat, prevent or cure any disease or condition under any circumstances. copyright and rights reserved all of the information on this website, including images, text, audio, video, and other forms of content (including the information on this comment policy page) is copyright © wellnessmama.com 2006-2018 and may not be downloaded, reproduced, republished or otherwise copied without express written permission of the author and of wellnessmama.com. the website and all of its content and the selection and arrangement thereof, is protected as a compilation owned by wellness mama® and wellnessmama.com under the copyright laws of the united states and other countries. wellness mama® may change the website or delete any content, features, or services at any time, in any way, for any or no reason. wellness mama® reserves all rights not expressly granted in and to the website and the content. thanks for reading wellnessmama.com and please contribute to the conversation by commenting often! footer sitemap start here comment policy affiliate disclosure newsletter privacy policy terms of service full disclaimer promo guidelines contact site footer the information on this website has not been evaluated by the fda and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease. by accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the terms of service, full disclaimer, privacy policy, affiliate disclosure, and comment policy. content may not be reproduced in any form. ads provided by cafemedia family & parenting network. displayed ads do not constitute endorsement or recommendation by wellness mama. copyright © 2006–2020 wellness mama® · all rights reserved · sitemap