home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources category: community organizer read more community organizer / featured #116: fftsquad – a career karma squad of highly motivated people breaking into tech together by julio rodriguez on july 15, 2019 today, we have a special group of people joining us who go by the #fftsquad. #fftsquad is a group of people on career karma who are working together to help each other grow, learn how… read more community organizer / featured #112: chasing your dreams with young guru & rodney sampson by julio rodriguez on april 12, 2019 rodney sampson is the ceo of ohub while young guru is widely known as jay-z’s dj. on today’s episode, ruben joins rodney & young guru to discuss how and why they came together and why… read more community organizer / engineering / featured #95: jacob hsu – ceo of catalyte, guaranteeing career transitioners engineering jobs by timur meyster on august 11, 2018 it all started when jacob hsu immigrated from taiwan at an early age! fast forward to now, jacob spends his time between san mateo and baltimore while he’s building and managing his team as the… read more community organizer / featured #94: raul moas – bringing tech jobs to miami with the knight foundation by timur meyster on july 26, 2018 a melting pot of different cultures, miami is now seeing a dramatic shift in its career ecosystem geared towards technology and startups. but a little more work is needed for the educational landscape to align… read more community organizer / design / featured #83: john maeda – global head, computational design and inclusion at automattic by timur meyster on april 16, 2018 john maeda is the global head of computational design and inclusion at automattic. previously, he was a partner at kleiner perkins where he founded the design and tech report that’s read by people all over… read more community organizer / featured / topic #82: wendy padua & tami forman – how returnships help mothers & parents get back into the workforce by timur meyster on april 8, 2018 if you’re a mom or you know some moms who want to know what it takes to break back into tech after you’ve been out of work for several years, this is a must-listen episode…. read more community organizer / featured / operations #59: dr. carol langlois – how self esteem & empowerment are changing the ratio through hackbright by timur meyster on august 20, 2017 dr. carol langlois is a lifelong educator who used to run the business program at usf. she was the dean at mills college and founder of higher education specialists. she did a dissertation in female… read more business development / community organizer / featured #41: kim han – biz dev deep dive: from tango to business development at square by timur meyster on april 14, 2017 growing up in taiwan for 17 years, kimberly han moved to seattle to go to college where she majored in psychology while minoring in dance. for majority of her adult life she was a professional… read more community organizer / featured #37: natasha vianna – teen mother who led the #noteenshame campaign and became director of communications at honor by timur meyster on march 30, 2017 as a teen mom, natasha vianna had to deal with the stereotype that society has boxed her in. but she didn’t let this break her spirit. natasha’s goal was and is to be the best… next subscribe be the first to get the latest breaking into startups podcast updates, right to your inbox. we’ll never spam you. our guests came from: about us the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds.our mission is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. facebook twitter instagram © 2020 breaking into startups. privacy policy top join 1,055 other subscribers! email subscribe now we respect your privacy. join our newsletter today! stay updated with all the latest episodes, upcoming events & much more. hack reactor prep prepare for any coding bootcam (free) learn more no thanks!