sustainable energy solution providers knowledge base write for us blog testimonials about us contact us sitemap 0161 738 1154 hello@biggreenswitch.co.uk kennedy road, astley manchester, m29 7jy mon-fri 9am-5:30pm sat & sun closed menu home led lighting led lighting overview benefits of led why led for business choosing led supplier led lighting applications industrial led lighting solutions led lighting for warehouses high performance led lighting high bay / low bay led lighting led for schools led lighting for car parks led lighting products cree led lighting cree leds cree 10 year warranty led solar energy solar overview benefits of solar energy why use solar energy what are solar photovoltaics? choosing a solar installer free solar solar pv commercial solar pv residential solar pv solar farms solar thermal other services biomass heat pumps voltage optimisation comparing export purchase contracts contact us case studies our process 0161 738 1154 hello@biggreenswitch.co.uk kennedy road, astley manchester, m29 7jy mon-fri 9am-5:30pm sat & sun closed solar solar pv installation our solar pv solutions enable businesses to not only reduce their energy spend, but to earn money from any excess energy supplied back to the grid. read more led lighting led lighting conversions we have led lighting solutions for all types of business, ranging from warehouses to colleges & schools. read more we are a quality sustainable energy supplier offering transparent pricing and clear roi free quote view our projects led lighting one of the greatest complements to sustainable energy is, without a doubt, led lighting. unlike previous generations of electric lamps, led lights use a minimal amount of energy and are capable of lasting a very long time. it is possible for led bulbs to last as long as twenty years. read more solar energy one of the things we are so excited about at big green switch is having the ability to help businesses in the uk tap into an endless supply of free energy from the sun. not only does this significantly cut operating costs but it also helps to reduce carbon emissions in keeping with government’s green deal. read more biomass in an ongoing effort to provide environmentally friendly fuels, … heat pumps heat pumps are another of the amazing technologies that enable … voltage optimisation one of the things big green switch has found when analysing homes … comparing export purchase contracts by this point in time we have all heard of the feed-in-tariff … why choose us we are reputable we have a proven record of delivering sustainable energy solutions on time and to budget. all projects are completed with absolute professionalism using the best quality products and materials, with realistic return on investment calculations based on our clear, transparent pricing structure. we are honest and dependable honesty is the best policy and we pride ourselves on completing all projects with integrity, not just for our clients but also our suppliers and subcontractors. we have dozens of successful projects to our name, a testament to our professional consistency. we never rest we are committed to providing the very best sustainable energy solutions for our clients using a mix of new and mature technologies. our attention to detail and post-completion customer care ensure absolute satisfaction with the service we provide. who we are big green switch is a trading style of perfect sense energy. we have been trading since 2010 and work nationwide from our base in manchester. we work on all manner of sustainable energy projects, with our primary focus being business cost reduction. our tried and tested process establishes clear project objectives from the outset with transparent pricing and return on investment calculations, before delivering on those objectives using a phased approach. read more next previous real customer testimonials initial contact with our energy advisor was very efficient and informative with all the facts available. the installation team of three were very good, helpful, informative polite and clean. all items of admin were confirmed quickly, clearly and concisely. very pleased with all aspects of the work and the people concerned. we would have no hesitation in recommending you to other people. mr & mrs j. from liverpool, 4kwp hyundai system (domestic) we worked with perfect sense energy to assess ways in which we could reduce our energy spend. following an initial site visit, it was recommended that we replace our old energy intensive 400w mid-bay son light fittings and upgrade them to the latest in 126w cree led lighting technology in our factory. the whole design, supply and installation process was completely painless and the light levels are now more than 20% brighter... (read more) gary joyce - production director - j chandler (buckfast) ltd, andover, hampshire (commercial) we are very satisfied with the standard and quality of the installation and with the conduct of the team. clean and tidy site left in good order. administration is efficient and thorough. overall pleased and satisfied with both product and service. i have already recommended you to our relatives, friends and neighbours. mr & mrs d. from warrington, 3kwp lg system (domestic) we found the experience of working with your company a pleasure, from our initial call to meeting your advisor, we were dealt with politely and professionally. your information and paperwork was much clearer than other quotes i’d had and i was delighted with the information you put forward. your installation team was smart, presentable and polite to both us and our neighbours. we would be very pleased to recommend you to others. mrs c. from manchester, 4kwp phonosolar system (domestic) our promise is to provide our customers with a service which is truly value for money with solutions which also clearly benefit the environment. trade memberships & accreditations information knowledge base write for us blog testimonials about us contact us sitemap we specialise in… led lighting solutions for the office led lighting solutions for sports halls and leisure centres led lighting for shops led lighting for petrol stations led lighting solutions for warehouses industrial led lighting solutions led lighting solutions for hotels about us big green switch is a trading style of perfect sense energy. we have been trading since 2010 and work nationwide from our base in manchester. read more free no obligation quote we would love to quote for your renewable energy project. requesting a quote takes less than 60 seconds. request free quote © 2015 perfect sense energy t/a big green switch. all rights reserved.