home comments policy subscribe comments policy we welcome comments from readers on posts, but you do so as guests in our private space. concepts of ‘censorship’ are not applicable. if your comments are blatantly racist, sexist or homophobic we will delete them and ban you from the site. the same goes for comments which are personally defamatory or insulting or which seek to derail a thread through provocation of one kind or another. if your comments strike us as stupid or irrelevant we may also delete them in the interests of keeping the conversation at a reasonable level. commenters who who routinely seek to make marginally relevant debating points may be barred to make room for those with a substantive contribution to the discussion. it is up to us. individual members of ct may ban particular readers from commenting on their posts, based on their own criteria for constructive discussion, or we may reach a group decision on a ban from the site as a whole. any attempt to evade a ban, for example by the use of sockpuppets, will result in a total and permanent ban. polite requests for reconsideration of bans may be entertained, but commenters should remember their position as guests, and not seek to assert imagined rights to publication. we are happy to accept pseudonymous comments but we will not knowingly accept comments from sockpuppeteers (individuals using more than one id and thereby giving the impression that their comments originate from more that one person). the only exception to this that is acceptable is where a person who normally comments under their own name needs to comment pseudonymously for clear professional or personal reasons. commenters should normally provide a valid, working email address. such addresses are only visible to members of the ct collective (and not to casual readers). commenters who provide addresses like noone@nowhere.net may find their comments deleted without warning. we respect the preference of many genuine commenters for pseudonymity and will protect their privacy. however, this respect entails an obligation to abide by the rules set out above. in cases of serious abuse, including those of racist abuse, serious defamation and disruptive sockpuppeteering, we will, if appropriate, publish the identity of such abusers and share their identifying information with other sites. share this: tweet recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter