compete themes home themes upgrades blog support subscribe tools about login menu wordpress themes for content creators get a minimalist, mobile-friendly, and easy-to-customize theme modern store view modern store free challenger view challenger free mission news view mission news free all themes are 100% free to use. view all 19 free themes. all themes manually reviewed & approved by the official wordpress theme review team over 1,500,000 downloads and counting users have awarded our themes an average 4.97/5.00 rating from over 300+ reviews download one of our themes today and find out what everyone’s raving about! what the web is saying "a great solution for a blog." "get a fully working website within an hour!" "easily build an eye-catching blog." customize more with premium upgrades add premium customization options to any theme make a site you're proud of every theme has a premium upgrade that adds more powerful but simple-to-use customization options. get access to all the premium upgrades and save over $500 with the vip package. view the upgrades. unbelievable customer support in-depth tutorials and friendly email support whenever you need it “i can't recommend them, and their products, highly enough. they're the definition of first class customer support.” -austin hackney “the support is unbelievable. i'm actually floored that ben took the time to answer my specific questions to help me make my little website just exactly as perfect as i wanted it to be. thank you!” -emily harris “seriously good support. they've helped me build a site i'm really proud of. thanks.” -james bellorini read all testimonials need help picking a theme? follow this simple checklist to easily pick the right theme for your site. how to choose a wordpress theme you'll love latest from the blog learn wordpress with our fast-growing library of tutorials wordpress page id – where to find it ben sibley learn the basics march 26, 2020 can’t find the id of a page? follow this quick tutorial to locate the id of any page in your wordpress dashboard. how to upload & link to a pdf in wordpress ben sibley learn the basics march 12, 2020 need to share a pdf on your site? learn the two quick steps for uploading and linking to pdfs in posts in pages with wordpress. how to save a draft of an already published post ben sibley learn the basics february 3, 2020 wordpress can’t do this on its own. these are the steps you can take to save private drafts of posts & pages you’ve already published in wp. wordpress themes designed for a distracted world read our story to learn more about our philosophy contact wordpress resources terms & conditions privacy policy copyright © 2020 compete themes llc.