welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog get ahead this fall: credit eligible courses published on: aug 17, 2017 by rachel lapal 10478 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post fall is approaching in some parts of the world and that means many things; football season, changing foliage, warmer clothes and the start of a new school year. it could also be the first step to a college degree thanks to arizona state university’s (asu) and edx’s global freshman academy (gfa). gfa is offering a variety of unique online courses this fall allowing you to jump... read more about get ahead this fall: credit eligible courses get college ready with 8 great edx courses published on: jun 15, 2017 by sara reich 4835 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post if you’re starting college soon, it’s important to make sure you’re prepared for your classes by refreshing your knowledge of the fundamentals or learning something new. explore these 8 prep and introductory courses on edx to kick-start or restart your college career! improve your writing skills with 6 free online courses published on: nov 08, 2016 by david mcpherson 227564 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post words are powerful. they inspire greatness and effect change. they start movements and empower leaders. they have the power to get you hired, get you promoted and, if used incorrectly, get you fired. combine the power of words with the ease and speed of email and social distribution in the digital age and one can quickly see that it has never been more important to... read more about improve your writing skills with 6 free online courses find your inner writer: new writing and composition courses published on: may 05, 2016 by david mcpherson 6812 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post do you have a story inside you just waiting to come out? do you have expertise in a subject that needs to be exposed to the world via a blog or a how-to book? is your imagination on par with j. k. rowling but you lack the tools to get your ideas onto paper? in addition to the knowledge, creativity and inspiration for your writing,... read more about find your inner writer: new writing and composition courses reimagining freshman year published on: feb 25, 2016 by monil shah 5156 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post the number of students enrolling in universities and colleges this year is 1.7% lower than it was last year, and only 66% of high school graduates immediately enroll in college. there are many reasons why one may decide not to attend college; it can stem from not being eligible to get into a well recognized institution to not being able to afford the costs, despite... read more about reimagining freshman year english courses to improve your life published on: feb 17, 2016 by monil shah 20173 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post did you know that over 840 million people speak english? from business to school to relationships, better writing and communications skills can benefit all areas of your life. improved speaking and writing skills can help you personally and professionally: advance your career: global organizations are choosing english as their common language even though chinese is the highest spoken. in fact, the harvard business review declared english as the global... read more about english courses to improve your life ap® english language and composition: exam preparation published on: sep 23, 2015 by david mcpherson 6882 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post the ap® english language and composition exam has two parts: multiple choice and free response. the multiple choice section lasts one hour and tests the ability to read, comprehend, analyze and interpret various types of rhetoric. the 2 hour and 15 minute free response portion of the exam is especially challenging because students are required to compose an argument and cite various sources from supplied... read more about ap® english language and composition: exam preparation search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close