home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog 2013 goals january 7, 2013 by erin weiss 4 comments i know this post is a little late, but i wanted to wish everyone a happy new year!!!! i hope you guys reached your goals and stuck with your 2012 resolutions. my year of 2012 was absolutely amazing. here are a couple highlights of my 2012. 2012 highlights: published fitness model in a magazine became a certified personal trainer started a personal training … [read more...] my first bikini competition video clips november 22, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment happy thanksgiving everyone!!! after i finished stuffing my face this holiday, i naturally started to look up bikini competition videos on youtube. i was shocked when i found a couple videos from my show. i had yet to see any video of my show so it was fun to find these :) i figured i'd share them with you. you can see my reaction and how shocked i was when they … [read more...] fitography challenge november 11, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment i wanted to set up something fun for you guys to do while i'm away on vacation, so we are having our first.... fit-ography challenge!!! here's how the challenge works. the challengers have already entered and i've divided you guys into two teams. you have about one week to complete as many of the 17 challenges as possible (listed below). to get points, all you need to … [read more...] fitness america midwest championships picture october 24, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment i finally got my first professional picture back from the photographer who shot my competition! i was so excited about it that i had to share it with you guys! fitness america midwest championships 2012 - bikini tall class sportswear/theme-wear costume: chicago bulls luvabull photographer: don bersano photography location: palatine, il (harper college) the cd is … [read more...] sexiest fitness blogger october 5, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments i randomly saw that i was entered in the top 10 sexiest fitness bloggers contest. i got #3! (third place seems to be a common placing for me lately!! haha) so random but thank you sneakerreport.com. here's the link to the contest. the blurb about me says: "no. 3 – erin blog: live life active it’s clear that erin of live life active is a real go getter, as the … [read more...] my first bikini competition – part 4 september 28, 2012 by erin weiss 7 comments if you missed the first part of my first bikini competition series, you can see them here. part 1 part 2 part 3 as i stood underneath the bright lights in my teeny tiny bikini with 13 other bombshells, we awaited the judge's to call out the top 5. the announcer first called out #26 for 5th place. as soon as i looked at who it was, i knew there was no chance of me … [read more...] my first bikini competition – part 3 september 26, 2012 by erin weiss 3 comments if you missed the first part of the story, you can read part 1 and part 2 here. where did i leave off..... in between the morning and evening show, my mom and step-dad came to visit me at the hotel. i told them i didn't want them coming to the show because it would make me even more nervous than i already was. my mom decided to stop by the hotel to see me instead. as … [read more...] my first bikini competition – part 2 september 25, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment if you missed part 1, you can see the beginning of my competition story here. i woke up before 7 on saturday morning ready to rock and roll!! my hair and makeup appointment was bright and early at 7:15. i ran downstairs to the hotel lobby before my appointment to grab my boyfriend a surprise breakfast in bed. i loaded up a plate of bacon, sausage, eggs, biscuits and muffins. … [read more...] my first bikini competition – part 1 september 24, 2012 by erin weiss 7 comments i'm back from my first fitness competition!!! i have soo much to say about this experience that i'm going to break it up into a few posts. to start the weekend off...i had my last workout on thursday. it was so awesome finishing my last workout. i felt like a little kid on the last day of school. i was pretty warn down and the lack of carbs was causing my energy to be … [read more...] 2 days out – questions and answers! september 20, 2012 by erin weiss 7 comments i'm officially two days away from my first fitness america bikini competition! my nerves have remained constant..they are still very high but at least they aren't getting worse i guess ;) i'm taking work off tomorrow and leaving for chicago in the morning!!! i probably wont be able to blog again until after the show, so this will be my last post before the big day. make … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in