skip to content login join now stay on track with big goals make daily, weekly, and monthly progress on your biggest goals with compass—your full focus guide to yearly achievement. join now banish distractions tame your to-do list achieve big goals make a plan to achieve when daily life gets busy and your to-do list gets bigger, your goals could be the first to go. we believe your never-ending to-do list shouldn’t sabotage your goal achievement. there’s a better way. with your full focus planner, we’re here to help. join now a membership to help you stay on track compass is a membership designed exclusively for full focus planner users to help them make daily, weekly, and monthly progress on their goals all year long. stay focused log, track, share, and celebrate goals all year long with an online portal, a winning community, and triggers for weekly achievement. guarantee progress develop new skills to maximize the planner’s planning and prioritization system and guarantee consistent progress on goals. achieve more accomplish your big goals with reinforcement from an encouraging community, helpful coaches, and new tools for success. join now how it works step 1 log your goals use the membership’s online portal to log, track, and share goals. step 2 stay on track attend the weekly preview sessions, monthly masterclass sessions, and quarterly preview parties to stick to the achievement framework. step 3 achieve your goals when you accomplish your goals, celebrate with a supportive community who’s got your back. included in your compass membership live weekly preview session add the power of accountability and structure to get your weekly preview done every week. live monthly masterclass sessions learn new skills to power your achievement and get your questions answered from our full focus coaches. live quarterly preview party attend a special streaming event where our coaches guide you through your quarterly preview with expert tips, giveaways, and more. online portal to log, track, and share goals keep your goals visible with an online portal that allows you to plan your goal achievement for the year. success community equipped with full focus coaches engage in a thriving community of like-minded achievers all spurring you on toward achievement. plus: additional exclusive events and resources for compass members only. join now see inside the membership want to see what tools hundreds of compass members are using to achieve their goals? watch this brief video to see inside the online portal, goal tracker, and success community. your investment for success $29.99/month live weekly preview sessions live monthly masterclass sessions live quarterly preview party online portal access to exclusive success community join now frequently asked questions what is compass? compass is an online membership program for full focus planner users to help them make daily, weekly, and monthly progress on their big goals. what do i get with compass? once you join, you will get instant access to our success community (our private facebook group) and our online portal to log, track, and share your goals. each week, you’ll have the opportunity to sign up for a time to do your weekly preview live with our community. each month, you’ll get access to our monthly masterclass sessions where we teach new topics around goal achievement and answer your questions. and you’ll also get access to our quarterly preview party where our coaches will walk you through doing your quarterly preview while also doing giveaways and more. in addition to this, you’ll get extra wow features for being a member. what if i can’t attend a live session? no worries! we’ll deliver the recording for you inside your online portal. when are all the live sessions? the date, time, and topic of the month's masterclass session will be announced at the first of each month. you can view this inside the portal once you get access. as for the weekly preview sessions, you'll have multiple times to choose from within your online portal. what do i need to participate in this program? an internet connection, your full focus planner, and the determination to achieve! is there a refund or cancellation policy? you can cancel your membership at anytime. however, there are no refunds for the month. where can i get support or express a concern? please go to compass.fullfocusplanner.com/support. you will see a menu of different options to assist you with your support needs. if you are unable to find the answers to your questions, please select chat with a human in the menu selection and you will be connected with a member of our team via live chat. if we are unavailable through live chat, we will follow up with you via email. make progress easy join compass to keep your progress on big goals strong. join now ©2020 michael hyatt and company, llc support | privacy | terms