welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog 3 reasons to add online courses to your cv and how to do it published on: feb 04, 2020 by jerry hamedi 199628 views 18 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post when searching for a new hire, different employers look for different things, but they’re all trying to answer the same overarching question: can this individual add value to my business? as a strong potential candidate, it’s your job to help them reach the right conclusion. it can be a difficult task to set yourself apart from the crowd, but showcasing your completion of relevant online... read more about 3 reasons to add online courses to your cv and how to do it announcing microbachelors® programs, an innovative undergraduate-level credential that will transform the future of work and higher education published on: jan 08, 2020 by anant agarwal 2972 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post today, we are proud to announce microbachelors® programs, the first credit-backed stackable credential, marking a significant milestone in online learning. created by edx in an innovative partnership with top colleges, universities and fortune 1000 corporations, microbachelors programs deliver immediately transferable skills to meet the real-world needs of employers, while providing a pathway to a full bachelor’s degree. edx was founded on the mission to increase... read more about announcing microbachelors® programs, an innovative undergraduate-level credential that will transform the future of work and higher education top-ranked programs that will prepare you for 2020 and beyond published on: jan 02, 2020 by livia halltari 4396 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this next year and decade won’t be defined by a singular trend, but rather a combination of emerging technologies and skill sets — the growing focus on ai, automation, digital leadership, and more. an easy start to get a leg up on the trends is one course, but to dive even deeper, consider starting a program. start exploring our hand-picked list of top-ranked programs created... read more about top-ranked programs that will prepare you for 2020 and beyond these knowledge areas will define the next decade published on: jan 01, 2020 by livia halltari 4612 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post will 2020 be the year of ai, the year of automation, or the year of data? the answer isn’t any one of these. the next year, and more broadly, the next decade, will be defined by a combination of new technologies, with a new emphasis on the necessity to reskill and upskill to keep up with the new prevalence of artificial intelligence, machine learning, cybersecurity,... read more about these knowledge areas will define the next decade congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! published on: aug 20, 2019 by nina huntemann 7049 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i am thrilled to announce the 10 finalists for the fourth annual edx prize for exceptional contributions in online teaching and learning! the edx prize celebrates the contributions and innovations of educators in the edx community, and amplifies the powerful role that online learning plays in the transformation of education today. last year, in boston at the edx global forum, university of queensland professors blake... read more about congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! high demand skills for freelancers published on: aug 15, 2019 by alice randall 6147 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post the freelance marketplace upwork just released its latest skills index which tracks the fastest growing skills based on freelancer billings year over year. “freelancing” is now synonymous with possessing multiple skillsets — freelance jobs can range from web development, to seo, to social media marketing. upwork’s skills index is a great resource for freelancers looking for the latest high-demand skills, or for any professional (full time or otherwise) seeking to grow their own expertise for the digital economy. we were especially excited to see... read more about high demand skills for freelancers asking questions, solving puzzles: meet farhanah published on: jul 09, 2019 by livia halltari 1696 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post welcome to the latest installment of edx insider, where we take you behind the scenes at edx hq. today we chat with farhanah, engineering manager, sustaining & escalations, about the things that make edx unique, what inspired her to pursue an engineering career, the best course she’s ever taken, and more. quick stats name: farhanah sheets department/role: engineering manager, sustaining & escalations hometown: singapore /... read more about asking questions, solving puzzles: meet farhanah edx welcomes nyu tandon school of engineering published on: apr 10, 2019 by cate cho yoo 2856 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to welcome new york university (nyu) tandon school of engineering to the global community of edx partners. nyu tandon is rooted in tradition and opportunity, with the mission to generate ideas and build solutions for a healthier, safer, better-connected, and more sustainable world. it is part of the larger nyu system, which has nearly 60,000 students across all 50 u.s. states and... read more about edx welcomes nyu tandon school of engineering from 4g to 5g: the technology behind the apps and devices you use every day published on: mar 13, 2019 by institut mines-télécom 7443 views 2 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what is 4g? have you ever wondered what the “g” means in 2g, 3g, 4g and in the widely anticipated 5g ? drum roll… it’s “generation”. 4g refers to our current generation, the “fourth generation” of cellular communications. since the early days of mobile phones in the 1980s, several generations of cellular technologies have come and gone, with the market requiring more powerful technology roughly... read more about from 4g to 5g: the technology behind the apps and devices you use every day learning in an accessible way: meet aditi published on: mar 01, 2019 by elizabeth pratusevich 11361 views 3 comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i have been working in data security for the last few years and realized that as cyberattacks become more sophisticated, so do the security tools. in order to stay relevant, i wanted to learn about machine learning and ai, so i could create the next generation of security tools. i wanted to learn online, but my previous experience with massive open online courses (moocs) had... read more about learning in an accessible way: meet aditi page 1 of 4 current page: 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close