welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog congratulations to the edx prize 2019 winners! published on: nov 21, 2019 by anant agarwal 4043 views 3 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are pleased to announce that dartmouth college professor petra bonfert-taylor and institut mines-télécom (imt) professor rémi sharrock have been named the winners of the 2019 edx prize for exceptional contributions in online teaching and learning! this is the first joint partner program to win the edx prize. the edx prize is an annual award that celebrates the contributions and innovations of educators in the... read more about congratulations to the edx prize 2019 winners! congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! published on: aug 20, 2019 by nina huntemann 7049 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i am thrilled to announce the 10 finalists for the fourth annual edx prize for exceptional contributions in online teaching and learning! the edx prize celebrates the contributions and innovations of educators in the edx community, and amplifies the powerful role that online learning plays in the transformation of education today. last year, in boston at the edx global forum, university of queensland professors blake... read more about congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! 10 important ways analytical skills boost your resume published on: jul 15, 2019 by david mcpherson 53556 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post analytical skills say a lot about a person. in particular, they say a lot of things that are very attractive to an employer no matter what job position you hold. when you demonstrate an ability to analyze data and make informed recommendations, you quickly become an indispensable part of the team. you become the go-to person for helping making sense of the mountains of customer and... read more about 10 important ways analytical skills boost your resume gaining foundational knowledge to pursue an advanced degree: meet anthony published on: may 14, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 2798 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post how did you first learn about edx? i learned about edx from one of its founders anant agarwal, who was pivotal in inspiring my interest in electronics. what were your goals in taking the c programming with linux professional certificate program? currently i am seeking the open doors towards my m.s. in c.s. online. rounding out the ‘basics’ gave me a good deal of practice... read more about gaining foundational knowledge to pursue an advanced degree: meet anthony the 4 most lucrative programming skills you can learn online published on: feb 07, 2019 by the edx team 170468 views 21 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post programming jobs are as hot as ever and there is no end in sight. if you are looking for a secure job with the flexibility to work online from anywhere, software development is the way to go. one of the best things about the field of computer programming is that the most popular programming languages can be found with a quick google search and can... read more about the 4 most lucrative programming skills you can learn online python for everybody, everywhere published on: jan 29, 2019 by dr. charles r. severance, university of michigan school of information 6951 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i am very proud to announce courses from my popular python for everybody (py4e) mooc series is now live and open for enrollment on edx. the series is composed of two courses, programming for everybody (getting started with python) and python data structures – you can enroll in both and start learning today. back in 2009, my goal for py4e was very simple: create the... read more about python for everybody, everywhere edx welcomes the university of rosario published on: may 15, 2018 by johannes heinlein 2611 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to welcome the university of rosario, a leading liberal arts university in colombia, to the global community of edx partners. the university of rosario has a rich history in colombia, and strong tradition in internationalization and supporting student growth and independence. rosario and edx are both committed to increasing access to high quality education to learners everywhere through online education, and we... read more about edx welcomes the university of rosario 12 courses you can complete in 6 weeks or less! published on: mar 22, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 12744 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post smoother career re-entry with online learning published on: sep 22, 2017 by mit office of digital learning 4253 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this post originally ran on mit news. mitx course and internships help stem professionals return after a break from the workforce to care for family. they are described as the hidden gems of the workforce: mature, skilled, and highly-motivated stem professionals who return to their careers after a hiatus of two years or more. often they have already navigated the complicated life experiences — marriage, career changes, children, and relocations — that... read more about smoother career re-entry with online learning get ahead this fall: credit eligible courses published on: aug 17, 2017 by rachel lapal 10478 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post fall is approaching in some parts of the world and that means many things; football season, changing foliage, warmer clothes and the start of a new school year. it could also be the first step to a college degree thanks to arizona state university’s (asu) and edx’s global freshman academy (gfa). gfa is offering a variety of unique online courses this fall allowing you to jump... read more about get ahead this fall: credit eligible courses page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close