conferencetopia is a free course that will teach you what to do before, during, and after a conference to establish great relationships, and build your business faster. what you'll learn: how to start and hold a conversation with anyone, even if you’re shy! how to connect with the speakers & influencers (and why it matters…) to start building relationships right away the critical piece of gear you need to bring to every conference! how to ensure that every conference is a success for your business, every single time! how to follow-up the right way with everyone you meet at the conference so much more… get the course for free today! enroll me! hard to believe this course is free... wow - so much value here in such a short period of time! i've been listening to the solopreneur hour podcast for 3 years so i've heard many of these principles, but michael does an awesome job succinctly presenting them here. thank you so much for your help - as an introvert just starting a business, this is just what i needed right now. thanks again! danny l. conferencetopia student to the point, authentic, and very well done! the course wasn't "overly polished", and it was very well done! 5 out of 5 stars! rob m. conferencetopia student well thought out presentation! michael, excellent presentation! i like how you broke it down into before, during, and after segments. also, addressing the awkward "how to approach influencers". great job! thanks for putting this together and making it available. i will tell a couple of the groups i'm in about it! denise w. conferencetopia student this really came in handy! thanks very much michael. i'm going to a conference this week and this was a great review and taught me some things i didn't even think about! mikkel t conferencetopia student the solopreneur hour podcast ⓒ all rights reserved proudly unemployable, llc × fill out the form below to get your free membership to conferencetopia! sign up today i would like to receive future communications i agree to the gdpr terms & conditions i confirm that i am at least 16 years of age or older i have read and accept any eula, terms and conditions, acceptable use policy, and/or data processing addendum which has been provided to me in connection with the software, products and/or services. i have been fully informed and consent to the collection and use of my personal data for any purpose in connection with the software, products and/or services. i understand that certain data, including personal data, must be collected or processed in order for you to provide any products or services i have requested or contracted for. i understand that in some cases it may be required to use cookies or similar tracking to provide those products or services.. i understand that i have the right to request access annually to any personal data you have obtained or collected regarding me. you have agreed to provide me with a record of my personal data in a readable format. i also understand that i can revoke my consent and that i have the right to be forgotten. if i revoke my consent you will stop collecting or processing my personal data. i understand that if i revoke my consent, you may be unable to provide contracted products or services to me, and i can not hold you responsible for that. likewise, if i properly request to be forgotten, you will delete the data you have for me, or make it inaccessible. i also understand that if there is a dispute regarding my personal data, i can contact someone who is responsible for handling data-related concerns. if we are unable to resolve any issue, you will provide an independent service to arbitrate a resolution. if i have any questions regarding my rights or privacy, i can contact the email address provided. × sign me up! powered by kartra we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. by remaining on this site, we will assume that you're ok with it. info i accept