css-tricks presents conferences ... related to front-end design & development add a conference on github upcoming past ⠿ view conferences as grid ☰ view conferences as list march 2020 reactathon (coc) 30 march 30, 2020 - march 31, 2020 san francisco, california reactathon is a conference for engineers who love and work with react. talks are professionally-curated to educate and inspire you for what's next in the react ecosystem, and breaks are facilitated to ensure that each minute you invest has a maximum roi. for example, you can easily identify the topic you want to learn about easily with the topic tables and listen to or discuss with core contributors and maintainers. www.reactathon.com code of conduct developer conference email conference info email address close details april 2020 uiarchconf (coc) 01 april 1, 2020 - april 3, 2020 new orleans, usa uiarchconf is a unique training event for those who work as ui architects, or are looking to become a ui architect. what's a ui architect? with the rise in sophistication of web and mobile front-end development, our industry has given rise to a new type of team player: ui architect. we will explore the various aspects of ui architecture, and the massive role a ui architect plays in an organization. from traditional "architect" tasks such as defining coding standards, to ux standardization, the ui architect wears many hats, and is a leader within their company championing the user interface. uiarchconf.com code of conduct web - mobile - design - ux architecture email conference info email address close details vueday (coc) 03 april 3, 2020 - april 3, 2020 verona, italy vue is a progressive framework for building user interfaces. vue is designed from the ground up to be incrementally adoptable. the core library is focused on the view layer only, and is easy to pick up and integrate with other libraries or existing projects. 2020.vueday.it code of conduct email conference info email address close details an event apart (coc) 13 april 13, 2020 - april 15, 2020 washington dc an event apart dc is a three-day conference with 17 sessions and an intense focus on digital design, ux, content, code, and more, giving you deep insights into where we are now and where things are going next.an event apart dc is a three-day conference with 17 sessions and an intense focus on digital design, ux, content, code, and more, giving you deep insights into where we are now and where things are going next. aneventapart.com code of conduct three days of design, code, and content email conference info email address close details js kongress 2020 (coc) 15 april 15, 2020 - april 16, 2020 munich, germany js kongress 2020 is a two-day developer-driven and single-track international javascript / web conference. this edition is about scaling js – pushing the limits. it's about massive platforms, data-driven architectures, and modern apis. the #deeptrack is about all things javascript. you create the program! join us, and let's watch out for solutions and best practices. js-kongress.com code of conduct the focus of js kongress 2020 is scaling js – pushing the limits. massive platforms, data-driven architectures, and modern apis. the email conference info email address close details magnoliajs (coc) 16 april 16, 2020 - april 17, 2020 remote magnoliajs is mississippi's only developer conference (though this year is remote for obvious reasons). our mission is to foster growth and opportunities for developers in the southeast and be the launching point for greater things for the tech in mississippi. magnoliajs.com code of conduct free, 2-day remote conference email conference info email address close details react summit (coc) 17 april 17, 2020 kromhouthal, amsterdam a full-day, two-track conference on all things react, gathering front-end and full-stack engineers across the globe in the tech heart of europe. we're coming back with a new gig on april 17, 2020. next to the main conference day, be prepared for a number of hands-on workshops, pre-party meetups, and mini conferences throughout the week of the event. reactsummit.com code of conduct the biggest react conference worldwide email conference info email address close details smashing conference (coc) 21 april 21, 2020 - april 22, 2020 san francisco, california let's rock'n'roll! we'll explore live sessions on performance, accessibility, security, privacy, interface design, debugging and practical css/js jazz. plus a bunch of hands-on workshops on accessibility, design, front-end and ux. smashingconf.com code of conduct a friendly, inclusive event, focused on real-world problems and solutions. email conference info email address close details jsheroes (coc) 23 april 23, 2020 - april 24, 2020 cluj, romania jsheroes is a two-day single track event, focusing on a wide range of topics around javascript and the web ecosystems. each year we bring a diverse lineup of speakers in front of an audience of 700 people in the beautiful heart of transylvania, cluj-napoca, romania. we believe that the community and the open-source models are well suited for our core values: learning, teaching and knowledge sharing. our mission is to inspire other communities with the concept of open-source events. jsheroes.io code of conduct open-source community event email conference info email address close details halfstack charlotte (coc) 24 april 24, 2020 charlotte, north carolina an authentic, high value experience for attendees and sponsors focused on ui-centric javascript and web development. halfstackconf.com code of conduct frontend, javascript, ui, web, development. email conference info email address close details beyond tellerrand (düsseldorf) (coc) 27 april 27, 2020 - april 29, 2020 düsseldorf, germany this is number 10! ten editions of beyond tellerrand in düsseldorf. join us to celebrate 10 years of creativity, inspiration, learning and meeting with a lovely group of people each and every year. beyondtellerrand.com code of conduct web design, development, creativity, design and much more email conference info email address close details may 2020 frontend united (coc) 01 may 1, 2020 - may 2, 2020 minsk, belarus a non-profit, developer-first, community-focused conference. our aim is to bring frontend developers and designers from all kinds of backgrounds closer together to share knowledge, experiences and ideas. www.frontendunited.org code of conduct email conference info email address close details john slatin accessu (coc) 11 may 11, 2020 - may 14, 2020 austin, texas learn practical skills for accessibility and inclusion whether you’re a designer, developer, project manager, administrator, or responsible for online content or development! knowbility.org code of conduct practical accessible design and development skills email conference info email address close details halfstack tel aviv (coc) 11 may 11, 2020 tel aviv-yafo, israel an authentic, high value experience for attendees and sponsors focused on ui-centric javascript and web development. halfstackconf.com code of conduct frontend, javascript, ui, web, development. email conference info email address close details an event apart (coc) 11 may 11, 2020 - may 13, 2020 seattle, washington an event apart seattle is a three-day conference with 17 sessions and an intense focus on digital design, ux, content, code, and more, giving you deep insights into where we are now and where things are going next.an event apart seattle is a three-day conference with 17 sessions and an intense focus on digital design, ux, content, code, and more, giving you deep insights into where we are now and where things are going next. aneventapart.com code of conduct three days of design, code, and content email conference info email address close details react finland (coc) 12 may 12, 2020 - may 15, 2020 helsinki, finland react finland combines the finnish react community with international flavor. the first of its kind in finland, the event consists of two days of workshops and two days of talks around the topic. in this single track event you will learn more about react and surrounding topics while meeting some of the leading talents of the community. in addition to enjoying the event, this is your chance to explore finland. react-finland.fi code of conduct learn more about react, explore finland. email conference info email address close details you gotta love frontend (yglf) (coc) 14 may 14, 2020 - may 15, 2020 vilnius, lithuania yglf is a series of community events built by developers for developers, a non-profit conference aimed at delivering high-quality content on the hottest topics that cutting edge frontend developers need to know. bringing in internationally recognized speakers and attendees, with the young and vibrant atmosphere of the frontend community, yglf creates a buzzling bustle of software engineers from around the globe. lithuania.yglfconf.com code of conduct frontend, javascript, node.js, web, design. email conference info email address close details june 2020 smashing conference (coc) 09 june 9, 2020 - june 10, 2020 austin, usa we’ll explore how to improve accessibility and front-end workflow, refactoring, web performance, html email,interface design patterns and how to write better css/javascript. plus a bunch of hands-on workshops on design, front-end and ux. smashingconf.com code of conduct a friendly, inclusive event which is focused on real-world problems and solutions. email conference info email address close details pixel pioneers bristol (coc) 11 june 11, 2020 - june 12, 2020 bristol, uk pixel pioneers bristol is an affordable community conference for front-end developers and ux/ui designers with a focus on actionable takeaways. the single-track event this time features world-class speakers such as charlie gerard, paul boag and val head, who will also run a full-day workshop on web animation techniques. pixelpioneers.co code of conduct for the fourth time in bristol! a one-day conference of practical and inspiring ux/ui and front-end talks. email conference info email address close details css day 2020 + dsgnday (coc) 11 june 11, 2020 - june 12, 2020 amsterdam, netherlands css day is an advanced, deep-diving, single-track, content-focused css conference. we ask our speakers to treat css and design topics that they themselves, as well as the attendees, can geek out on. cssday.nl code of conduct advanced css conference & dsgnday email conference info email address close details react loop (coc) 19 june 19, 2020 chicago, il react loop is a single day reactjs conference in chicago bringing together a diverse and inclusive group of react enthusiasts from all backgrounds and levels of experience. speakers will cover topics such as react, react native, and the related tools in the ever-growing ecosystem. reactloop.com code of conduct react. chicago. community. email conference info email address close details an event apart (coc) 29 june 29, 2020 - july 1, 2020 boston, massachusetts an event apart boston is a three-day conference with 17 sessions and an intense focus on digital design, ux, content, code, and more, giving you deep insights into where we are now and where things are going next.an event apart boston is a three-day conference with 17 sessions and an intense focus on digital design, ux, content, code, and more, giving you deep insights into where we are now and where things are going next. aneventapart.com code of conduct three days of design, code, and content email conference info email address close details july 2020 csscamp (coc) 15 july 15, 2020 - july 15, 2020 barcelona csscamp is a one-day, one-track conference for web designers and developers in barcelona. csscamp.tech code of conduct one-day, one-track conference for web designers and developers. email conference info email address close details jscamp (coc) 16 july 16, 2020 - july 17, 2020 barcelona international single-track and two-day conference covering all about javascript and modern web technologies. jscamp.tech code of conduct listen. learn. get inspired. email conference info email address close details react la conferencia (coc) 18 july 18, 2020 medellín, colombia this year will take place the first react conference in spanish in america, it’s a community effort, created by the community for the community. we want to connect the whole latin american react community. reactlaconf.co code of conduct the first react conference for spanish speakers in latin america. email conference info email address close details august 2020 halfstack new york (coc) 14 august 14, 2020 new york, ny an authentic, high value experience for attendees and sponsors focused on ui-centric javascript and web development. halfstackconf.com code of conduct frontend, javascript, ui, web, development. email conference info email address close details an event apart (coc) 17 august 17, 2020 - august 19, 2020 minneapolis, minnesota an event apart minneapolis is a three-day conference with 17 sessions and an intense focus on digital design, ux, content, code, and more, giving you deep insights into where we are now and where things are going next.an event apart minneapolis is a three-day conference with 17 sessions and an intense focus on digital design, ux, content, code, and more, giving you deep insights into where we are now and where things are going next. aneventapart.com code of conduct three days of design, code, and content email conference info email address close details ng-de (coc) 21 august 21, 2020 - august 22, 2020 berlin, germany ng-de is the first non-profit community-driven angular conference in germany. it will take place in berlin, 21 - 22 august 2020. the venue bolle festsäle is located next to the beautiful spree river, close to bellevue palace and tiergarten. a bunch of one-day workshops are planned for august 20 which can be booked separately from the main event. ng-de.org code of conduct ng-de is the first non-profit community-driven angular conference in germany. email conference info email address close details react rally (coc) 22 august 22, 2020 - august 23, 2020 salt lake city, utah react rally is a two day single track conference for developers of all backgrounds using react.js, react native, and related tools. speakers will cover topics like react native, state management, hooks, universal javascript, and more. whether you're a seasoned developer who has been using react since before it was cool, or a newcomer to the scene, react rally has something for everyone! www.reactrally.com code of conduct react rally is a community conference about react and topics interesting to react developers. email conference info email address close details beyond tellerrand (berlin) (coc) 24 august 24, 2020 - august 27, 2020 berlin, germany beyond tellerrand is back for the 7th time in berlin. two days of conference with talks about design, technology and many opportunities to meet old and make new friends. don’t miss out. beyondtellerrand.com code of conduct web design, development, technology, creativity, design and much more email conference info email address close details renderatl (coc) 24 august 24, 2020 - august 26, 2020 atlanta , usa renderatl is the first major react conference in the southern united states. conceived by a team of passionate react engineers who're looking to help drive more culture, inclusion, and, accessibility into the react ecosystem. www.renderatl.com code of conduct culture, inclusion, react email conference info email address close details september 2020 cascadiajs (coc) 01 september 1, 2020 - september 2, 2020 sunriver, oregon over the course of 2 days, you'll hear 20 amazing talks by experts and their fields, covering everything from web assembly to http/3 to building more inclusive teams. in between and around these talks we will create lots of opportunities for you to meet people and connect, including scheduling frequent breaks between talks, catering meals at the venue and organizing several social evening social events. 2020.cascadiajs.com code of conduct cascadiajs is the premier javascript conference in the pacific northwest. email conference info email address close details react native eu (coc) 03 september 3, 2020 - september 4, 2020 wroclaw, poland react native eu is the leading community conference in europe focused exclusively on react native what awaits you there? two days of the conference with over 25 great speakers, over 400 attendees from all over the world, one-day workshops with three different sessions of practical knowledge, one unforgettable adventure! react-native.eu code of conduct react native - community - opensource - diversity email conference info email address close details smashing conference (coc) 07 september 7, 2020 - september 8, 2020 freiburg, germany we’ll explore how to improve accessibility and front-end workflow, refactoring, interface design patterns, performance, and how to write better css/javascript. plus a bunch of hands-on workshops on design, front-end and ux. smashingconf.com code of conduct a friendly, inclusive event which is focused on real-world problems and solutions. email conference info email address close details halfstack vienna (coc) 18 september 18, 2020 absberggasse, vienna an authentic, high value experience for attendees and sponsors focused on ui-centric javascript and web development. halfstackconf.com code of conduct frontend, javascript, ui, web, development. email conference info email address close details jsconf budapest 2020 (coc) 24 september 24, 2020 - september 25, 2020 budapest, hungary jsconf budapest is a jsconf family member 2-day, single track non-profit for-the-community by-the-community conference about javascript in budapest, hungary. like we did in 2019, the ticket will include one free workshop on the day before or after the conf (tbd soon) call for presentations is open until the 29th of february! jsconfbp.com code of conduct everything that is javascript, the web and the community email conference info email address close details october 2020 an event apart (coc) 05 october 5, 2020 - october 7, 2020 orlando, florida an event apart orlando is a three-day conference with 17 sessions and an intense focus on digital design, ux, content, code, and more, giving you deep insights into where we are now and where things are going next.an event apart orlando is a three-day conference with 17 sessions and an intense focus on digital design, ux, content, code, and more, giving you deep insights into where we are now and where things are going next. aneventapart.com code of conduct three days of design, code, and content email conference info email address close details connect.tech (coc) 14 october 14, 2020 - october 16, 2020 atlanta, usa the largest multi-framework front-end conference in the usa. the 2020 event includes talks and keynotes by among others angular, vuejs and react core team members: 3 days total with a workshop day and 2 conference days with 10 tracks: react, vue.js, mobile, angular, advanced js, design/ui/ux, web/html/css, node/serverside, core js/frameworks, practices/other tech connect.tech code of conduct web. design. mobile. email conference info email address close details smashing conference (coc) 15 october 15, 2020 - october 16, 2020 new york city, new york for the 7th smashingconf new york we will be back in downtown new york, just around the corner of times square on october 20–21, 2020. with one track, two days, 13 speakers and 400 attendees, expect actionable insights for your work. smashingconf.com code of conduct we pour our heart into creating friendly, inclusive events that are focused on real-world problems and solutions. email conference info email address close details november 2020 beyond tellerrand (munich) (coc) 02 november 2, 2020 - november 4, 2020 munich, germany beyond tellerrand is back in munich again! meet 500+ people at the event about design, technology and inspiration. two days of conference, plus full-day workshops and side events around the core event. beyondtellerrand.com code of conduct web design, development, technology, inspiration, design, networking and much more email conference info email address close details december 2020 an event apart (coc) 14 december 14, 2020 - december 16, 2020 san francisco, california an event apart san francisco is a three-day conference with 17 sessions and an intense focus on digital design, ux, content, code, and more, giving you deep insights into where we are now and where things are going next.an event apart san francisco is a three-day conference with 17 sessions and an intense focus on digital design, ux, content, code, and more, giving you deep insights into where we are now and where things are going next. aneventapart.com code of conduct three days of design, code, and content email conference info email address close details icon-link icon-logo-star icon-search icon-star built with hosted on managed by rss feed · json feed