the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop news in brief congress allocates $2 trillion to bail out struggling bailout industry you may also like politics trump announces plan to retrain nation’s 3 million unemployed americans as human ventilators 44 minutes ago politics what’s in congress’ coronavirus stimulus bill today 2:19pm politics congress sets aside $1,200 in trust for each american until they prove they’re responsible enough to handle it yesterday 11:00am more from g/o media read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure read on woman working from home instinctively tries to steal tampons from own bathroom read on british royal family orders citizens to leave u.k. until prince charles recovers read on trump’s call to reopen economy attributed to new floating virus cloud advisor subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe 3/17/20 8:52am • see more: vol 56 issue 11 vol 56 issue 11congresscoronavirusmoneymitch mcconnell washington—in order to alleviate the heavy damage the crucial financial sector is facing in the midst of the ongoing covid-19 outbreak, the united states congress announced tuesday that they would be allocating $2 trillion in order to bail out the struggling bailout industry. “the bailout industry is on the brink of failure, so in order to prevent a full-on catastrophe, we are setting aside $2 trillion in order to bail it out,” said senate majority leader mitch mcconnell (r-ky), adding that the business of giving of massive sums of money to corporations so they can cover their losses is at the very bedrock of the u.s. economic system, and without assistance, the entire bailout industry as we know it could collapse, which could lead to another great depression. “during a crisis like this, the bailout industry is often hit the hardest, so we are taking immediate action, as our economy is deeply dependent on the bailout system; if bailouts can’t function, then america can’t function. a cash injection is absolutely necessary to make sure these failing businesses can inject cash into failing businesses.” at press time, congress had signed a bill to allocate funds to bail out their bailout of the bailout industry. advertisement share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion study finds female mammals live longer than males global pandemic that has killed thousands giving woman just the push she needed to organize tupperware cabinet u.s. economy grinds to halt as nation realizes money just a symbolic, mutually shared illusion 20 women throughout history and 5 from the future share tweet