skip to content search government politics accountability nation world podcasts video government white house local security diplomacy congress courts & law state houses federal agencies politics all things trump cybersecurity education elections energy environment finance coronavirus polling privacy regulation transportation accountability media political ethics waste, fraud and abuse watchdogs whistleblowers russia and ukraine scandals nation crime culture economy science technology extremism free speech religion world africa asia australia canada europe latin america mexico middle east podcasts john solomon reports the pod's honest truth with david brody the sharyl attkisson podcast video search follow us breadcrumb home government congress congressman massie denied, $2 trillion coronavirus bill passed without a recorded vote despite the presence of a quorum, a recorded vote was not taken on the bill after rep. massie's objections video file by nicholas ballasy last updated: march 27, 2020 - 5:28pm article dig in the facts inside our reporter’s notebook videos links tweet from abc news on the house floor friday, rep. thomas massie (r-ky.) requested a recorded vote be taken on the largest stimulus package in history but he was denied. the individual votes of each member voting in-person are not part of the "official public record" when a voice vote is taken. when a voice vote was called, a few "no" votes could be heard in the chamber. "mr. speaker, i came here to make sure our republic doesn't die by unanimous consent in an empty chamber and i request a recorded vote," massie said on the microphone. when no one else stood up, a recorded vote was not taken on the $2 trillion bill despite massie's objections. "an insufficient number has risen, a recorded vote is refused," rep. anthony brown said. shortly before the vote on friday, massie wrote on twitter, "are they afraid of the truth? i’ve been told that they don’t even have 1 minute available for me to speak against this bill during the 4 hour debate. the fix is in. if this bill is so great for america, why not allow a vote on it? why not have a real debate?" according to abc news, when massie stood to request a recorded vote, "arizona democratic rep. ruben gallego, who was seated in the upper gallery near the press, said out loud: 'shut the f--- up' toward massie.' " related articles coronavirus spending has loans for midsized businesses, but with pro-union strings attached 'worst thing:' gop lawmaker slams senate for $350 million refugee provision in virus law congresswoman says 3 more coronavirus stimulus packages might be needed top stories white house house passes $2.2 trillion coronavirus spending bill coronavirus nih failed to test coronavirus drugs, studied drunk monkeys, soap operas, and tailgating instead coronavirus dr. birx to media: stop frightening americans congress coronavirus spending has loans for midsized businesses, but with pro-union strings attached news, not noise coronavirus stanford doctors: coronavirus fatality rate may be far lower than current models predict watchdogs concerns inside va about coronavirus testing, medicine and staff shortages health the road not traveled: how big science skipped clinical trials after past coronavirus outbreaks trending nih failed to test coronavirus drugs, studied drunk monkeys, soap operas, and tailgating instead bahrain, belgium report coronavirus treatment touted by trump is working for patients stanford doctors: coronavirus fatality rate may be far lower than current models predict the road not traveled: how big science skipped clinical trials after past coronavirus outbreaks justice department sides with female athletes who do not want to compete against biological males latest coronavirus watch live: coronavirus task force holds briefing congress congressman massie denied, $2 trillion coronavirus bill passed without a recorded vote health timeline and list of government responses to coronavirus about us our staff privacy policy terms of service request a correction contact advertising © 2020 bentley media group, llc