content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip consulting content marketing is changing your marketing process cmi’s consulting mission is to advise enterprises on how to understand, develop and execute smart content marketing strategies. our consulting and advisory practice focuses on combining independent and pragmatic thinking across a wide array of marketing expertise. the biggest benefit by engaging cmi directly is that you have access to the collective knowledge of the leading minds in content marketing today – without the overhead of a huge consulting firm. we’re here to help: conduct content marketing workshops – to educate your teams to this practice lead content marketing planning engagements – to help you operationalize the people, process and technology of content marketing guide executive level advisory services – to help facilitate executive leadership to understand how content marketing is changing go-to-market strategies provide ad hoc coaching services – to help managers further develop an ongoing and successful content marketing approach conduct joint custom research projects and provide thought leadership content on the topic of content marketing we look at your core content marketing strategy and tactics and work with you to make improvements. some of the brands we have worked with: getting started is easy we’ll set up a call to better understand your challenges and figure out how cmi might help. from there, we’ll put together a customized proposal for services based on your specific needs and budget. cmi consulting services: consulting & advisory services education & content custom research projects fill out my online form. click to hear from cmi who is the content marketing institute blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree