content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about the content marketing institute are you wondering what content marketing is? are you trying to figure out how to get started or how to justify a content budget within your organization? or maybe you are already working with content marketing… but you want to get better results while having more fun? welcome to the content marketing institute (cmi) where our mission is to advance the practice of content marketing. while the site is full of practical, how-to guidance, you’ll also find insight and advice from the experts, and an active community for discussing the latest news, information, and advances that are moving the industry forward. our story people ask us all the time how cmi came to be. it’s simple, really. in the mid-2000s, despite the abundance of good blogs, books, and other resources, we were finding that people had a lot of questions about content marketing. before evolving into what is now the content marketing institute, we were known as junta42. junta42 launched in 2007 as the industry leader in content marketing matching. although junta42 was a great service, brands were starting to come to us for additional content marketing education. to answer the call, in 2011, we developed cmi, content marketing world and cco magazine. cmi was founded by joe pulizzi, the leading evangelist for content marketing. joe, an entrepreneur, speaker, and author on content marketing, believed passionately that there was a better way for brands to market than how they’ve done it in the past. cmi is a culmination of those beliefs. although we’ve accomplished a lot in eight years, we are working hard to improve and continually advance the industry. cmi will not stop until the need for content marketing education no longer exists. about content marketing institute content marketing institute is the leading global content marketing education and training organization, teaching enterprise brands how to attract and retain customers through compelling, multichannel storytelling. cmi’s content marketing world event, the largest content marketing-focused event, is held every fall in cleveland, ohio, and contenttech summit event is held every spring in san diego, california. cmi publishes chief content officer for executives and provides strategic consulting and content marketing research for some of the best-known brands in the world. watch this video to learn more about cmi. content marketing institute is organized by informa tech. if you are new to the site this site is full of information on all aspects of content marketing. here are some tips for finding the information that will best meet your needs: new to content marketing? check out our getting started guide, where you’ll learn the definition of content marketing, as well as basic steps for putting a content marketing plan in place. need a content strategy? read the cmi content marketing framework, which outlines the seven essential building blocks for a successful content marketing program. looking for some content marketing examples? download our ultimate ebook: 100 content marketing examples. are you in marketing leadership? subscribe to our free magazine, chief content officer, to stay on top of the latest industry trends. really want to learn a lot (while having fun)? join us at content marketing world in cleveland, ohio. this is the largest gathering of content marketing professionals in the world (and 99% of past attendees would attend again.) need advice specific to your organization? contact our consulting group, led by strategist robert rose, to find out how they can help you meet your content marketing challenges. other helpful resources looking for a daily ideas and inspiration? we publish a new article on content marketing every day. sign up to get daily or weekly emails. want to write for us? check out our contributor guidelines. want to know how your efforts and ideas are measuring up to those of your content marketing peers? check out cmi’s original and annual content marketing research. want more in-depth instruction? check out our white paper library and free webinars. interested in showcasing your expertise? submit your entry to the content marketing awards. we would love to hear from you! if you have a question about content marketing, ideas you would like to share, or feedback on our educational tools and services, please reach out anytime. connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree