content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search content marketing consulting and social media strategy need engagement? digital, content, and social media marketing strategies we create strategic plans and operational playbooks that dramatically boost the effectiveness of your content, social, email, and website programs. how can we help need satisfaction? customer experience strategies and optimization we create customer experience strategies that enhance your customer satisfaction/nps and create conversations through online and offline word of mouth. how can we help need content? content marketing and thought leadership creation we create research reports, ebooks, webinar series, b2b influencer marketing programs, podcasts, and video series for your brand. how can we help why us? our team is massively experienced, and all strategists and analysts have a minimum of 10 years’ expertise. the firm is led by world-renowned marketing and cx expert, speaker, and author jay baer. our commitment to client satisfaction is unyielding, as evidenced by our net promoter score of 78, higher than ritz-carlton. barb schaetz grand ole opry convince and convert has enabled us to supercharge our efforts by providing insights on all aspects of our social media plan. ryan lauder taylormade we love c&c because they’re always here for us – whether it’s a brainstorm, gut check or to show us the way forward. adam buchanan cabela's jay and the c&c team provided us with an incredible audit and blueprint. we were blown away with the delivery and no nonsense recommendations. fantastic to work with! jennifer brower central new mexico community colleges i am in awe of c&c’s work – the team’s talent, tenacity, and dedication are everything. vanessa sain-dieguez hilton worldwide the team is a pleasure to work with! extremely knowledgeable in all aspects of digital. the team at convince & convert makes everything super easy to understand on all levels. joycelyn winnecke professional convention management association great job. i was a bit nervous about how my team would react, but they seem all in. and that’s amazing — a testament to the quality of your work. trusted by b2c leaders trusted by b2b leaders trusted by travel & entertainment leaders trusted by healthcare leaders trusted by higher ed leaders view all clients & case studies podcasts episode 382 - social pros podcast how this airline became best in the world at social media episode 414 - social pros podcast how social media can breed disruptive thinking episode 413 - social pros podcast how fedex dominates in social media by getting specific episode 412 - social pros podcast how to use authenticity and become a tiktok influencer episode 411 - social pros podcast psychology shows why social media often fails view all time best insights social media marketing, social media research the 4 best practices of healthcare social media marketing for 2020 content marketing podcast statistics for 2020 – charts and data content marketing how to create a successful virtual event for your company social media marketing how to select the best media monitoring solution for your company digital marketing how to keep your marketing team together using calendar apps view most popular research & reports instagram for tourism marketing: how states are amping up their marketing view details 2019 best websites among america’s top universities view details beyond the newsfeed: the best healthcare social media for 2020 view details want more great content like this? a weekly dose of the trends and insights you need to keep you on top, from jay baer at convince & convert. in each week’s email, jay will recap what happened in digital, what trends are important for marketers to watch, plus some fun surprises that you’ll just have to sign up to see! subscribe to our newsletter or are you looking to subscribe to one of our podcasts convince & convert books talk triggers buy on amazon hug your haters buy on amazon youtility buy on amazon view all books need a keynote speaker, workshop leader, or breakout session? you’ve come to the ideal place. the convince & convert team has extraordinary experience on stage helping build audiences’ business on the topics of customer growth, cx, customer service, digital marketing, word of mouth, content marketing, and social media. our founder jay baer is a hall of fame keynote speaker, and several other members of the convince & convert strategy and marketing teams delivers dozens of presentations each year, world-wide. visit our speaking page for more information how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept