content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip content marketing framework: measurement for content marketing, it’s a long season. there are, and should be, many chances to fail — as long as we fail quickly, learn, and adapt to the new surroundings. measurement comes at the end of this framework, but for many, it’s the beginning, middle, end (and everything in between) of your content marketing process… and it’s not easy. as our content marketing research indicates, 33 percent of b2b marketers and 41 percent of b2c marketers cited the inability to measure as a significant challenge. in the video below, cmi consultants carla johnson, michael weiss, ardath albee, and jay baer discuss why this number is likely too low, and share some of their insights into what, specifically, content marketers need to be measuring. if you want a breakdown on what you should measure, check out a field guide to the 4 types of content marketing metrics. just because you can measure just about anything these days, doesn’t mean that you should. metrics can be all-consuming and confusing, so first, determine a few fundamentals that you should focus on: 8 kpis your content marketing measurement should include how to measure the success of content marketing the myths of measurement understand your content marketing math with jay baer next, understand how other companies are measuring content marketing: real world examples of social media measurement with jason falls [interview] then, learn to use templates and checklists to better track what you need to measure: content marketing metrics: how to drive action instead of reaction a checklist for measuring your content marketing success 5 ways to measure facebook fan engagement how to measure the value of content marketing podcasts measurement is the seventh step in building a successful content marketing strategy. download our white paper, the cmi content marketing framework: 7 building blocks to success for an overview of the process, or learn about the other steps with our how-to guides on the right-hand side of the page. connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree