home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more contact thanks for your interest in contacting me. here are some of the specific reasons you may want to get in touch with me and how to do it. if you are interested in having me speak at your event, please check out my speaking page. if you are interested in reposting or reprinting one of my blog posts, please check out my copyright page. if you are interested in writing a guest post for my blog, you should know that i no longer consider unsolicited requests. i just don’t have the time to give these the attention they deserve. if you submit a guest post or send an inquiry, you will get an auto-reply that restates what i just said. if you want to pitch me a book idea, please read advice to first-time authors. please note that i do not personally review book proposals. i am no longer associated with thomas nelson, so i can not pass along your proposal to someone there. to get in the front door with any publisher, you will need an agent. i maintain a list of agents here. if you are looking for a specific blog post, you can either search my archive page or use my google-powered search feature (in the upper-righthand corner of this page). if you have a comment or a question not addressed above, please contact support. one of my team members will respond to you as quickly as possible. please note that our customer service hours are monday-friday from 8:00am-5:00pm central time. you can send regular mail here: michael hyatt & company, llc p.o. box 1221 franklin, tn 37065 please do not send me your book to review. i don’t have time to do reviews except on books i personally request. also, please do not send me a book to express your appreciation. i am grateful for the sentiment, but i am literally out of shelf space in my office and library. everything i buy now is digital. thanks for your understanding. mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed