skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download contact form by wpforms – drag & drop form builder for wordpress by wpforms details reviews installation support development description wordpress contact form builder plugin we believe that you shouldn’t have to hire a developer to create a wordpress contact form. that’s why we built wpforms, a drag & drop wordpress form builder that’s easy and powerful. wpforms allows you to create beautiful contact forms, feedback form, subscription forms, payment forms, and other types of forms for your site in minutes, not hours! at wpforms, user experience is our #1 priority. our pre-built form templates and workflows make wpforms the most beginner friendly contact form plugin in the market. wpforms is a 100% mobile responsive contact form solution, so your contact forms will always look great on all devices (mobile, tablet, laptop, and desktop). wpforms’ contact forms are also highly optimized for web and server performance because we understand the importance of speed when it comes to seo, marketing, and conversion. we can honestly say that wpforms is one of the fastest wordpress contact form builder plugins in the world. wpforms pro this plugin is the lite version of the wpforms pro plugin that comes with all the contact form features you will ever need including email subscription forms, multi-page contact forms, file uploads, conditional logic, payment integrations, form templates, and tons more. click here to purchase the best premium wordpress contact form plugin now! we took the pain out of creating contact forms and made it easy. here’s why smart business owners, designers, and developers love wpforms, and you will too! drag & drop contact form builder we were tired of the bloated and buggy contact form builder plugins. that’s why we built wpforms to adapt to your workflow and allow you to create custom contact forms in minutes. by using our easy to use drag and drop online form builder, you can easily add custom form fields, rearrange them, and basically create a complete contact form in 5 minutes or less. but don’t just take our word. see what one of the wordpress experts are saying: wpforms is by far the easiest form plugin to use. my clients love wpforms and it’s one of the few plugins they can use without any training. as a developer i appreciate how fast, modern, clean and extensible it is. bill erickson – expert wordpress consultant pre-built form templates building contact forms in wordpress can be time consuming. why? because every other wordpress contact form builder plugin requires you to build your contact form from scratch. the truth is it’s often not necessary to create a contact form completely from scratch unless you really want to. whether you’re looking to create a simple contact form, marketing form, request a quote form, donation form, payment order form, registration form, or a subscription form, we have a form template for you inside our contact form builder. wpforms comes with pre-built form templates to help you save time. you can add, remove, or re-arrange fields as necessary. see 150+ pre-made wpforms form template demo mobile ready, seo friendly and optimized for speed wpforms’ contact forms are 100% responsive and mobile-friendly by default. we also optimized every query on the front-end and the back-end to ensure maximum speed – yes, wpforms is one of the fastest wordpress contact form plugin. you can embed your contact form on any page with optimized title and description. with the speed and proper formatting, wpforms is also one of the most seo friendly contact form plugin. all the fields & features that you need to succeed from star ratings to file uploads to multi-page contact forms with progress bar, we have all the fields you need. you can easily integrate your contact forms with an email marketing service or collect payments for bookings and orders. wpforms allows you to do it all. the best part is, you can do it all without hiring a developer. see what one business owner has to say about wpforms’ contact form: as a business owner, time is my most valuable asset. wpforms allow me to create smart contact forms with just a few clicks. with their pre-built form templates and the drag & drop builder, i can create a new form that works in less than 2 minutes without writing a single line of code. well worth the investment. david henzel – co-founder of maxcdn surveys & polls along with contact form, you can also use wpforms to create surveys and polls. our wordpress survey plugin addon comes with smart survey fields including likert scale, star ratings, multiple choice, net promoter score (nps), and more, so you can create custom survey forms like survey monkey (without the high costs). wpforms offer the best-in class survey reporting. you can use our interactive reports to customize the graphs, export them for your presentations, and even display the aggregate results to your users. the best part about wpforms survey reports is that it can retroactively work on any old contact form or feedback survey contact form created with wpforms. thousands of businesses love wpforms surveys for creating employee feedback form, customer feedback form, online petition form, and more. you can also use the surveys & polls addon to easily create a poll on your site. to save you time when creating a user poll, we have added a built-in poll forms template. our poll feature offers real-time reports, so you can share poll results with the user immediately after they submit their vote. just like the contact form, you can embed your surveys and polls inside any post, page, or widget area in wordpress. membership and default wordpress forms aside from building simple contact forms which every wordpress site needs, wpforms also helps you create better default wordpress forms. for example, you can use wpforms to create custom wordpress login forms and custom wordpress user registration forms which are great for membership sites. for membership sites, you can also use wpforms to create a password-protected contact form or even a members only contact form which is restricited to logged-in users only. even if you’re not using a wordpress membership plugin, you can use wpforms to create membership registration forms, online rsvp forms, and other address book contact forms. bloggers and publishers can use our wordpress post submission forms to accept guest posts, testimonials contact form to collect testiomnials, and partnership agreement forms to grow their business. payment form, donation form, booking form, and more while wpforms started out as a contact form plugin, it has evolved into a powerful forms solution that you can use to create a payment form, donation form, registration form, online booking form, and more. wpforms integrates with both paypal and stripe, so you can easily create a credit card payment form to accept payments on your website. if you’re using ssl, then you can use our stripe payment form to accept credit card payments. alternatively you can use our paypal payment form to make a donation form and accept payments online. aside from simple order forms, business owners also use wpforms to create custom product purchase forms, t-shirt order forms, online booking forms, and more. we understand that sometimes you may need to create a contact form that require a signature. wpforms comes with a signature field to collect user signature on your wordpress forms or even create custom signature forms. you can do all of this while still using the same easy-to-use contact form builder that’s loved by over 3 million users. i am so impressed with this plugin. i decided to give it a shot over some of the other form plugins, and i am so glad i did. it works well, is so easy to use and customize. the support is amazing on top of it all. i got the pro version because i was so pleased. highly recommend. micky73 – wordpress user forms that are optimized for conversion and results with our form pages addon, you can create distraction-free custom form landing pages like google forms and wufoo right inside wordpress, so you can increase conversions without the high costs (see form pages demo). to improve form completion rate, we created conversational forms® which helps you make your generic feedback form and other custom contact forms feel more human by adding an interactive form layout. our conversational forms are similar to typeform without the high subscription costs (see conversaional forms demo). wpforms also has other conversion optimization features such as our smart form logic that lets you create dynamic contact forms where fields change based on user’s answer, multi-page contact forms with progress bar, and other advanced contact forms. wpforms form analytics integration with monsterinsights allow you to easily track your lead capture forms, newsletter signup forms, request a quote contact form, and other important forms on your site. easy to customize and extend you can easily customize your contact forms with our section dividers, html blocks, and custom css. we also knew that our developer friends may want to extend simple contact forms further. that’s why wpforms come with tons of hooks and filters to create custom functionality. since contact forms are essential for marketing, wpforms is a must have plugin for every website! full wpforms feature list online form builder – our powerful drag & drop contact form builder allows you to easily create wordpress contact forms and other online forms in just a few minutes without writing any code. 100% responsive – mobile friendly contact forms. gdpr friendly – make your contact form gdpr compatible with just a few clicks. form templates – use our pre-built form templates to save time. never start from scratch again (see all form templates demos). spam protection – wpforms utilizes smart captcha and honeypot method to stop spam contact form submissions. instant form notification – quickly respond to incoming inquiries with our instant contact form notification system. smart form confirmation – show a custom success message, or redirect users to a custom thank you page. file uploads – collect files and media through your contact forms with file uploads. multi-page forms – split long forms into multiple pages with progress bar to improve user experience. smart conditional logic – show or hide fields and contact form sections based on user behavior. signature forms – create signature forms or add the signature field to your contact form, application form, booking form, etc. user registration forms – create custom user registration form and custom login form in wordpress. post submissions – collect user-submitted content in wordpress with our front-end post submission form. great for guest posts, testimonials, business directory, listings, etc. geolocation – display location information about your users. custom captchas – create custom captchas for your contact form. surveys and polls – easily create surveys forms and analyze the data with interactive reports. form abandonment – unlock more leads and grow your business with partial-form submission. form locker – manage form permissions and add access control rules including password-protected forms, members only forms, limit contact form entry per person, close form after specific date / time, etc. offline forms – let your visitors save their entered data offline and submit when their internet connection is restored. form landing pages – create “distraction-free” form landing pages to boost conversions. great google forms and wufoo alternative. conversational forms – interactive form layout that makes your form feels more human and boost overall completion rate. great for surveys and registration forms. perfect typeform alternative for wordpress without the high costs. integrations paypal payment forms – create paypal forms to easily collect payments, donations, and online orders. stripe forms – easily collect credit card payments, donations, and online orders with our stripe addon. mailchimp forms – create mailchimp newsletter signup forms in wordpress and connect with your contact form to grow your email list. aweber forms – create aweber newsletter signup forms in wordpress and connect with your contact form to grow your email list. campaign monitor forms – create campaign monitor newsletter signup forms in wordpress and connect with your contact form to grow your email list. getresponse forms – create getresponse newsletter signup forms in wordpress and connect with your contact form to grow your email list. constant contact forms – create constant contact newsletter signup forms in wordpress and connect with your contact form to grow your email list. drip forms – create drip newsletter signup forms in wordpress and connect with your contact form to grow your email list. zapier addon – connect your wordpress forms with over 1000+ apps. route your contact form data to your favorite crm, email marketing service, etc. after reading this feature list, you can probably imagine why wpforms is the best wordpress contact form plugin in the market. give wpforms a try. want to unlock more features? upgrade to our pro version. credits this plugin is created by jared atchison and syed balkhi. branding guideline wpforms® is a registered trademark of wpforms llc. when writing about the contact form plugin by wpforms, please make sure to uppercase the initial 3 letters. wpforms (correct) wp forms (incorrect) wpforms (incorrect) wpform (incorrect) what’s next if you like this plugin, then consider checking out our other projects: optinmonster – get more email subscribers with the most popular conversion optimization plugin for wordpress. monsterinsights – see the stats that matter and grow your business with confidence. best google analytics plugin for wordpress. seedprod – jumpstart your website with the #1 coming soon & maintenance mode plugin for wordpress. wp mail smtp – improve email deliverability for your contact form with the most popular smtp plugin for wordpress. rafflepress – best wordpress giveaway and contest plugin. visit wpbeginner to learn from our wordpress tutorials and find out about other best wordpress plugins. notes wpforms is absolutely, positively the most beginner friendly wordpress contact form plugin on the market. it is both easy and powerful. we took the pain out of creating online forms and made it easy. check out all wpforms features. also, i’m the founder of wpbeginner, the largest wordpress resource site for beginners. it was a huge priority for me to make a wordpress contact form plugin that beginners can use without any training. i feel that we have done that here. i hope you enjoy using wpforms. thank you syed balkhi screenshots wpforms drag & drop online form builder adding new field form preview form settings conversational forms addon form pages addon blocks this plugin provides 1 block. wpforms/form-selector contact form by wpforms - drag & drop form builder for wordpress installation install wpforms lite either via the wordpress.org plugin repository or by uploading the files to your server. (see instructions on how to install a wordpress plugin) activate wpforms lite. navigate to the wpforms tab at the bottom of your admin menu and click the “add new” button to begin creating your new wordpress contact form. want more features? purchase the full version of wpforms! faq who should use wpforms? wpforms is perfect for business owners, bloggers, designers, developers, photographers, and basically everyone else. if you want to create a custom wordpress form, then you need to use the wpforms drag & drop form builder. do i need to have coding skills to use wpforms? absolutely not. you can create and manage forms without any coding knowledge (100% drag & drop form builder). wpforms is the most beginner friendly contact form plugin in the market. what type of wordpress forms can i build with wpforms? wpforms drag & drop form builder combined with our addons is the most powerful wordpress contact form plugin in the market. here are some types of wordpress forms you can create: simple contact forms job application contact form feedback survey contact form make a suggestion contact form change request forms online booking forms event booking form video release forms pto request contact form maintenance request contact form scholarship application forms file download forms employment verification forms make a referral contact form volunteer registration contact form offline contact form to see a full list, visit our form template gallery which has over 150+ pre-made contact form templates. which form fields does wpforms offer? we made wpforms form builder to be both easy and powerful. here are the contact form fields that comes with wpforms form builder (also known as standard fields): text field paragraph text (textarea) dropdown field multiple choice (radio buttons) checkboxes numbers field name field email address field here is a list of our advanced contact form builder fields (fancy fields): website / url field address field password field smart phone field with international format verification date / time field hidden field html field – add custom html inside your form file upload – great for file upload form page break field – great for multi page contact form with progress bar. section divider – great for long contact forms signature field – great for contracts and booking forms star rating – great for survey forms and polls likert scale – great for survey forms net promoter score (nps field) – great for survey forms questions captcha – great for preventing contact form spam math captcha – great for preventing contact form spam google recaptcha – great for preventing contact form spam here is a list of our payment fields that will help you create a order form, donation form, booking form, and other payment forms: single item multiple items checkbox items dropdown items total (calculation field) credit card (stripe) paypal can i integrate wpforms with my crm or email marketing service? yes, wpforms offers seamless integration with over 1,000+ popular email marketing and crm software. you can easily send data from your contact form and other wordpress forms to your favorite crm, email newsletter, and other marketing platforms. here is a list of our popular marketing integrations: mailchimp constant contact aweber drip campaign monitor getresponse zapier using our zapier integration, you can easily connect wpforms with over 1000+ marketing apps including: salesforce crm pipedrive crm hubspot email marketing hubspot crm google sheets active campaign zoho crm zoho mail zoho invoice agile crm slack trello infusionsoft by keap microsoft excel dropbox helpscout zendesk freshbooks freshsales intercom click funnels microsoft dynamics 365 crm capsule crm insightly crm printfection acuity scheduling quickbooks online see all wpforms zapier integrations. note: wpforms was voted zapier’s 8th fastest growing app in the world. can i create a payment form with wpforms yes, wpforms is not your average contact form plugin. you can use it to create any type of form including payment forms. we make it easy for you to accept payments using stripe and paypal. our stripe integration helps you easily accept credit card payments online. our paypal integration allows you to accept paypal payments online. can i import / export forms with wpforms? yes, wpforms makes it easy to import / export your contact forms and other wordpress forms created with wpforms form builder. this is incredibly useful for developers and agencies who are building websites for clients. you can also create custom form templates that you can use on client websites. for more see our documentation. aside from that, wpforms also allows you to import froms from other wordpress contact form plugins such as contact form 7, ninja forms, and pirate forms. if you’re not happy with your wordpress contact form plugin, then definitely give wpforms a try! i’d like access to all features. how can i get them? you can get access to more features, addons and support by upgrading to our pro version. purchasing a pro license gets you access to the full version of wpforms, automatic updates, priority support, and all wpforms addons! is wpforms translation ready? yes, wpforms has full translation and localization support via the wpforms textdomain. all .mo and .po translation files should go into the languages folder in the base of the plugin. the same is true for every wpforms addon as well. does wpforms include spam protection? yes, wpforms includes a spam “honeypot” which is enabled on all forms by default. additionally, google recaptcha is also supported and can be setup at wpforms > settings > recaptcha. wpforms is fully compatible with all versions of google recaptcha: checkbox recaptcha v2 invisible recaptcha v2 recaptcha v3 lastly, custom captchas are available which allow you to create math or question based captchas for your contact forms. reviews simple but effective michelbaise march 27, 2020 i tried various plugins in the past. this one is the best so far i encountered. simple. effective. option or not to link to private policy. so easy and pretty! thehappycouponer march 27, 2020 very easy to use! i don't like the contact forms where you have to set up your own fields. the basic form on this has everything i need and as a bonus - it looks pretty on the page! handy and well thought of kunalsharmaiimk march 27, 2020 i found the plugin useful and very practical. prosta i intuicyjna lubintom march 27, 2020 wtyczka tak prosta w uzyciu że az sie rozpłakałem po jej wstawieniu a jestem wysokim postawnym facetem który już troche przeżył wstawiając to i owo, no może nie w wp... approprite as req.. thepixelsunited march 27, 2020 hey guys, it's just appropriate as required for a website. not too difficult to manage & set up. it's cool. use it! keep developing! incredible and easy to use marciomota march 26, 2020 incredible and easy to use read all 6,113 reviews contributors & developers “contact form by wpforms – drag & drop form builder for wordpress” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors wpforms jared atchison syed balkhi slava abakumov “contact form by wpforms – drag & drop form builder for wordpress” has been translated into 13 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “contact form by wpforms – drag & drop form builder for wordpress” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.5.9.5 fixed: do not try to process entries in lite. 1.5.9.4 changed: improve async notification emails scheduling compatibility with certain caching plugins and site installs. fixed: some smart tags are not rendered correctly in the email notifications if sent asynchronously. 1.5.9.1 fixed: checkbox image click doesn’t work well to select an option. fixed: do not allow empty connection names (spaces only) for providers. 1.5.9 important: support for php 5.4 has been discontinued. if you are running php 5.4, you must upgrade php before installing wpforms 1.5.9. failure to do that will disable wpforms core functionality. added: new hooks and filters in several places, e.g. pre-deletion for entries/forms. added: async/scheduled tasks management support (e.g. sending emails in the background). changed: update the “how to create your first contact form” video url. changed: update the “how to embed a form” video url in a form builder “embed” modal. changed: number slider field: allow empty value in “value display” option. changed: improved admin input field focus states to be more consistent with wordpress core. fixed: numbers/numbers slider field: allow 0 value in email notifications and field smart tags output. fixed: required checkbox fields with 0 value not passing validation. fixed: multiple choice field could generate a php notice when the form was created after using a custom form template. fixed: initialize tooltips properly for newly created notifications/confirmations. fixed: ajax button should be re-enabled after incorrect form submission. fixed: remove javascript alert notice when form is viewed in amp. fixed: improve compatibility with the “lazy loading feature plugin” for ajax spinner image on front-end. fixed: validation issue with required checkbox fields using image choices. fixed: form builder preview issue with a field using dynamic choices setting. fixed: number field values not allowing leading zeros. fixed: form builder: templates search bar shows icon over text. fixed: security hardening and improvements. 1.5.8.2 fixed: can’t add new line in textareas in the form builder (notifications > message etc). fixed: choices editing block inside the form builder is hidden if creating a form using a template. 1.5.8.1 fixed: “invalid form” error on form submit if ajax form submissions is enabled and user is not logged in. 1.5.8 changed: sullie logo in the form builder got his left hand back. changed: hide image choices options if dynamic choices is enabled. changed: adjusted number field input to improve consistency across different browsers/devices. changed: improve block detection to load css styles earlier. changed: open new provider connection modal after account has been added. changed: improve the way lite and pro versions of the plugin activation handled. changed: remove the unnecessary “required” setting from a number slider field. fixed: number slider incorrect label display in the form builder preview panel. fixed: quick links menu generating browser console error on survey print results page. fixed: required validation message isn’t removed immediately on choices selection. fixed: form builder styles compatibility with the new wordpress 5.3 styles. fixed: correctly process enter key press in smart phone field when enter is used to submit a form. fixed: remove not-needed get params from url in builder when a new form created to prevent race conditions with certain providers loading logic. fixed: properly scroll in all major browsers to a faulty field in a form, including multi-page forms. fixed: textarea character limit check returns an error if the content pasted is too large and contains ‘\r\n’ line breaks. 1.5.7 added: number slider field. added: recaptcha field in form builder allowing to easily manage the recaptcha for a form. added: admin area quick links menu. added: analytics sub-menu page. added: smtp sub-menu page. changed: improved forms bulk actions processing. changed: added a form builder splash screen which is displayed on mobile devices. changed: display warning message if javascript is disabled in the browser. changed: improved form front-end display and alignment for gutenberg focused themes. changed: improved invisible recaptcha behavior when form is submitted. changed: improved actions and filters for notification emails. fixed: duplicate of the duplicated form created on page reload. fixed: do not submit the form via ajax (if enabled in form settings) when in amp mode. fixed: wordpress 5.3 admin area styling issues. fixed: number field incorrectly processing negative numbers. fixed: page_url smart tag issues. 1.5.6.2 added: default value for “paragraph text” field. fixed: wordpress 5.3 compatibility. fixed: smart phone countries squashed dropdown on screen-width <= 600px on themes with base form styling selected. fixed: field’s default value 0 disappears after saving and exiting the form builder. fixed: smart email field did not recognize .dev top level domains as valid. 1.5.6.1 n/a: pro only release. 1.5.6 imporant: support for php 5.3 has been discontinued. if you are running php 5.3, you must upgrade php before installing wpforms 1.5.6. failure to do that will disable wpforms core functionality. added: single line text/paragraph fields limitation options (limit by character or word count). added: “community” sub-menu page for easy access to helpful resources and links. changed: minimum php version requirement is now php 5.4. changed: minimum wordpress version requirement is now wordpress 4.9. 1.5.5.1 fixed: broken recaptcha checkbox in builder > settings > general if recaptcha type does not set in wpforms > settings. fixed: email field server-side validation issue. fixed: broken “bulk add” option in builder in ie 11. fixed: broken image choices selection and styling (layout) issue in ie 11. fixed: backward compatible filters for some fields when displaying them were missing. 1.5.5 added: wpforms details inside site health info reports (tools > site health > info). added: filter wpforms_emails_summaries_is_disabled to easily disable email summaries functionality. added: new smart tag: {field_html_id="42"} – that will postprocess field value and display its html representation. changed: improve wpforms_get_ip() ip detection and related {user_ip} smart-tag value. fixed: giving access to wpforms for editors (and other roles) should give access to dashboard widget as well. fixed: add ‘attr’ property to ‘input_container’ for radio/checkbox-based fields. fixed: various typos. fixed: wp mail smtp plugin description on about us page. 1.5.4.2 changed: renamed certain actions with typos in their names, backwards-compatible. added a deprecation text using do_action_deprecated(). fixed: about us page behaviour when wp mail smtp pro is installed. fixed: recaptcha settings could be saved without providing recaptcha type. 1.5.4.1 fixed: plugin settings > misc > ‘view email summary example’ link errors. 1.5.4 added: email summaries. added: form builder hotkey to save changes, ctrl + s. changed: team photo under wpforms > about us. 🙂 fixed: dynamic field population populates checkbox and radio fields values but not adding ‘wpforms-selected’ class to its containers. fixed: dropdown field attributes are now accessible with wpforms_field_properties filter. fixed: form builder field buttons overflowing when translated. fixed: dashboard widget php error. fixed: form can be submitted multiple times if “submit button processing text” form setting empty. fixed: “error loading block” in gutenberg if additional css form settings are provided. 1.5.3.1 fixed: checkbox field validation issue when field is not required. 1.5.3 added: ajax form submissions. added: full support and compatiblity with google amp. added: google recaptcha v3. changed: wpforms uninstall script for better cleanup process. changed: email field mailcheck feature to offer additional controls. new filters: wpforms_mailcheck_enabled, wpforms_mailcheck_domains, and wpforms_mailcheck_toplevel_domains. fixed: special characters aren’t encoded when smart tags are processed in query string. fixed: fields with image choices are not working with some android and older desktop browsers. fixed: form builder: several alert modals are displayed in batch if multiple providers have configuration issues. fixed: wp_post object is returned from wpforms()->form->get() if form data is requested with a non-wpforms post id. 1.5.2.3 fixed: php error if checkbox field is empty when form is submitted. 1.5.2.2 fixed: php notice/warnings from undefined constant (typo). 1.5.2.1 fixed: required checkbox fields asking for all inputs to be checked to pass validation. 1.5.2 added: choice limit advanced option for checkbox fields. added: smart domain name typo detection for email fields. added: new gutenberg block keywords to help with discovery. added: link to “how to properly test your wordpress forms before launching” doc inside gutenberg block. changed: form builder field delete icon, now a trash can. changed: updated jquery inputmask library to v4.0.6. changed: updated jquery validation plugin to v1.19.0. changed: clear dashboard widget cache when form is created/deleted/updated. fixed: blank form if using form template containing target="_blank". fixed: honeypot field not using unique ids. fixed: duplicating forms creating another duplicate if afterwards the table was sorted. fixed: minor issues with gutenberg editor. fixed: form builder embed modal showing classic editor instructions for gutenberg users. fixed: number field allowing non-numerical characters on ios devices. fixed: field dynamic choices not showing in form preview when using “post type”. 1.5.1.3 fixed: importing forms that containing target="_blank". fixed: quote support/display inside query param smart tags. fixed: other minor fixes. 1.5.1.1 fixed: conflict with wordpress 5.1 if form contained target=”_blank”. fixed: unable to uncheck default multiple choice value in form builder after being set initially. fixed: php error when entries are exported after a field has been deleted. fixed: form builder email notification conditional logic settings display issue after new notification is added. fixed: conflict with some themes preventing multiple choice fields from being selectable. 1.5.1 added: complete translations for spanish, italian, japanese, and german. added: smart tag for referencing user meta data, {user_meta key=""}. changed: improved support with locotranslate plugin. changed: refactored form preview functionality, no longer requiring hidden private page to be created. changed: always load full wpforms styling inside gutenberg so forms render correctly. fixed: typos, grammar, and other i18n related issues. fixed: created alias class for wpforms to prevent issue with namespacing introduced in 1.5.0. fixed: dynamic population issue when using image choices field setting. 1.5.0.4 changed: dashboard widget improvements. fixed: various typos. 1.5.0.3 changed: minor improvements to gutenberg block for wordpress 5.0. fixed: error when activating wpforms pro if wpforms lite is still activated. 1.5.0 important: support for php 5.2 has been discontinued. if you are running php 5.2, you must upgrade php before installing wpforms 1.5. failure to do that will disable wpforms core functionality. added: dashboard widget. added: wpforms challenge: an interactive step-by-step guide to creating a form for new users. added: dynamic field population, available to enable from form settings. added: “about us” admin page (wpforms > about us). added: {user_first_name} and {user_last_name} smart tags. changed: improved randomizing if field is configured to randomize items. changed: improved i18n support. fixed: form builder errors if user had visual editor disabled in profile. fixed: form builder windows styling issues. fixed: form builder dynamic choices warning not always removing. fixed: form builder “show layout” css formatting. fixed: recaptcha compatibility when form is inside optinmonster popup. fixed: gutenberg block returning error if no forms have been created. see changelog for all versions. meta version: 1.5.9.5 last updated: 1 week ago active installations: 3+ million wordpress version: 4.9 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 php version: 5.5 or higher languages: see all 14 close dutch, english (australia), english (canada), english (new zealand), english (us), french (france), galician, german, italian, japanese, portuguese (brazil), russian, spanish (spain), and spanish (venezuela). translate into your language tags: contact formcontact form plugincustom formform builderforms advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 5,810 4 stars 127 3 stars 30 2 stars 32 1 star 114 contributors wpforms jared atchison syed balkhi slava abakumov support issues resolved in last two months: 84 out of 94 view support forum about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.