sign in google apps main menu language: afrikaans amharic - ‪አማርኛ‬ arabic - ‫العربية‬ bangla - ‪বাংলা‬ basque - ‪euskara‬ bulgarian - ‪български‬ catalan - ‪català‬ chinese (hong kong) - ‪中文（香港）‬ chinese (simplified) - ‪简体中文‬ chinese (traditional) - ‪繁體中文‬ croatian - ‪hrvatski‬ czech - ‪čeština‬ danish - ‪dansk‬ dutch - ‪nederlands‬ english (united kingdom) english (united states) estonian - ‪eesti‬ filipino finnish - ‪suomi‬ french (canada) - ‪français (canada)‬ french (france) - ‪français (france)‬ galician - ‪galego‬ german - ‪deutsch‬ greek - ‪ελληνικά‬ gujarati - ‪ગુજરાતી‬ hebrew - ‫עברית‬ hindi - ‪हिन्दी‬ hungarian - ‪magyar‬ icelandic - ‪íslenska‬ indonesian - ‪indonesia‬ italian - ‪italiano‬ japanese - ‪日本語‬ kannada - ‪ಕನ್ನಡ‬ korean - ‪한국어‬ latvian - ‪latviešu‬ lithuanian - ‪lietuvių‬ malay - ‪melayu‬ malayalam - ‪മലയാളം‬ marathi - ‪मराठी‬ norwegian - ‪norsk‬ persian - ‫فارسی‬ polish - ‪polski‬ portuguese (brazil) - ‪português (brasil)‬ portuguese (portugal) - ‪português (portugal)‬ romanian - ‪română‬ russian - ‪русский‬ serbian - ‪српски‬ slovak - ‪slovenčina‬ slovenian - ‪slovenščina‬ spanish (latin america) - ‪español (latinoamérica)‬ spanish (spain) - ‪español (españa)‬ swahili - ‪kiswahili‬ swedish - ‪svenska‬ tamil - ‪தமிழ்‬ telugu - ‪తెలుగు‬ thai - ‪ไทย‬ turkish - ‪türkçe‬ ukrainian - ‪українська‬ urdu - ‫اردو‬ vietnamese - ‪tiếng việt‬ zulu - ‪isizulu‬ blogger content policy blogger is a free service for communication, self-expression and freedom of speech. we believe blogger increases the availability of information, encourages healthy debate, and makes possible new connections between people. it is our belief that censoring this content is contrary to a service that bases itself on freedom of expression. however, in order to uphold these values, we need to curb abuses that threaten our ability to provide this service and the freedom of expression it encourages. as a result, there are some boundaries on the type of content that can be hosted with blogger. the boundaries we've defined are those that both comply with legal requirements and that serve to enhance the service as a whole. if you encounter a blog that you believe violates our policies, please report it to us using the 'report abuse' link located at the top of each blog under the 'more' dropdown. if the blog owner has hidden this link, you can still report abuse in the blogger help center. content boundaries our content policies play an important role in maintaining a positive experience for you, the users. please respect these guidelines. from time to time, we may change our content policies so please check back here. also, please note that when applying the policies below, we may make exceptions based on artistic, educational, documentary, or scientific considerations or where there are other substantial benefits to the public from not taking action on the content. adult content: we do allow adult content on blogger, including images or videos that contain nudity or sexual activity. if your blog contains adult content, please mark it as 'adult' in your blogger settings. we may also mark blogs with adult content where the owners have not. all blogs marked as 'adult' will be placed behind an 'adult content' warning interstitial. if your blog has a warning interstitial, please do not attempt to circumvent or disable the interstitial - it is for everyone’s protection. there are some exceptions to our adult content policy: do not use blogger as a way to make money on adult content. for example, don't create blogs that contain ads for or links to commercial porn sites. we do not allow illegal sexual content, including image, video or textual content that depicts or encourages rape, incest, bestiality, or necrophilia. do not post or distribute private nude, sexually explicit, or non-explicit intimate and sexual images or videos without the subject’s consent. if someone has posted a private nude, sexually explicit, or non-explicit intimate and sexual image or video of you, please report it to us here. child safety: we have a zero-tolerance policy towards content that exploits children. some examples of this include: child sexual abuse imagery: we will terminate the accounts of any user we find publishing or distributing child sexual abuse imagery. we will also report that user to the national center for missing and exploited children, as required by law. pedophilia: we do not allow content that encourages or promotes sexual attraction towards children. for example, do not create blogs with galleries of images of children where the collection of images or text accompanying the images is sexually suggestive, and do not publish content of a sexual nature involving an underage participant. hate speech: our products are platforms for free expression, but we don’t permit hate speech. hate speech is content that promotes or condones violence against or has the primary purpose of inciting hatred against an individual or group on the basis of their race or ethnic origin, religion, disability, age, nationality, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, or any other characteristic that is associated with systemic discrimination or marginalization. crude content: don't post content just to be shocking or graphic. for example, collections of close-up images of gunshot wounds or accident scenes without additional context or commentary would violate this policy. violence: it's not okay to post violent or gory content that's primarily intended to be shocking, sensational, or gratuitous. if posting graphic content in a news, documentary, scientific, or artistic context, please be mindful to provide enough information to help people understand what's going on. in some cases, content may be so violent or shocking that no amount of context will allow that content to remain on our platforms. lastly, don't encourage others to commit specific acts of violence. terrorist content: we do not permit terrorist organizations to use blogger for any purpose, including recruitment. blogger also strictly prohibits content related to terrorism, such as content that promotes terrorist acts, incites violence, or celebrates terrorist attacks. if posting content related to terrorism for an educational, documentary, scientific, or artistic purpose, be mindful to provide enough information so viewers understand the context. graphic or controversial footage may be subject to age-restrictions or a warning screen. harassment and threats: do not harass or bully others. anyone using blogger to harass or bully may have the offending content removed or be permanently banned from the site. online harassment is also illegal in many places and can have serious offline consequences. don't threaten other people on your blog. for example, don't post death threats against another person or group of people and don't post content encouraging your readers to take violent action against another person or group of people. copyright: it is our policy to respond to clear notices of alleged copyright infringement. more information about our copyright procedures can be found here. also, please don't provide links to sites where your readers can obtain unauthorized downloads of other people's content. personal and confidential information: it's not ok to publish another person's personal and confidential information. for example, don't post someone else's credit card numbers, social security numbers, unlisted phone numbers, and driver's license numbers. in addition, do not post or distribute images or videos of minors without the necessary consent from their legal representatives. if someone has posted an image or video of a minor without necessary consent, please report it to us here. also, please keep in mind that in most cases, information that is already available elsewhere on the internet or in public records is not considered to be private or confidential under our policies. impersonation and misrepresentation: do not use blogger with the intent to deceive, mislead or confuse users by impersonating any person or organization you do not represent, or by concealing your ownership or primary purpose. this includes directing content about politics, social issues, or matters of public concern to users in a country other than your own, if you misrepresent or intentionally conceal your country of origin or other material details about yourself. we're not saying you can't publish parody or satire, or use a pseudonym or pen name - just avoid content that is likely to mislead readers about your true identity. illegal activities: do not use blogger to engage in illegal activities or to promote dangerous and illegal activities. for example, don't author a blog encouraging people to drink and drive. please also do not use blogger to sell or promote illegal drugs. otherwise, we may delete your content. also, in serious cases such as those involving the abuse of children, we may report you to the appropriate authorities. regulated goods and services: do not use blogger to sell or facilitate the sale of regulated goods and services, such as alcohol, gambling, pharmaceuticals and unapproved supplements, tobacco, fireworks, weapons, or health/medical devices. spam: spam takes several forms in blogger, all of which can result in deletion of your account or blog. some examples include creating blogs designed to drive traffic to your site or to move it up in search listings, posting comments on other people's blogs just to promote your site or product, and scraping existing content from other sources for the primary purpose of generating revenue or other personal gains. malware and viruses: do not create blogs that transmit viruses, cause pop-ups, attempt to install software without the reader's consent, or otherwise impact readers with malicious code. this is strictly forbidden on blogger. enforcement of blogger's content policy please report suspected policy violations to us using the 'report abuse' link located at the top of each blog under the 'more' dropdown or by clicking here. our team reviews user flags for policy violations. if the blog does not violate our policies, we will not take any action against the blog or blog owner. if we find that a blog does violate our content policies, we take one or more of the following actions based on the severity of the violation: put the blog behind an 'adult content' interstitial put the blog behind an interstitial where only the blog author can access the content delete the offending content, blog post or blog disable the author's access to their blogger account disable the author's access to their google account report the user to law enforcement we may also take any of the above actions if we find that a user has created multiple blogs engaging in repeated abusive behavior. if you have had a blog disabled, do not create a replacement blog that engages in similar activity. help help center help forum video tutorials community blogger buzz +blogger developers blogger api developer forum copyright © 1999 – 2020 google terms of service privacy content policy