content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip content marketing framework: plan plan the work. work the plan. planning can take a number of forms, depending on where you are in your content marketing journey, but it should be the first — and strongest — thread throughout your content marketing framework. are you getting started? planning might take the form of a creating your business case (these 50+ stats can help). or maybe you want to study examples of those businesses that have successfully used content marketing (our documentary looks at six outstanding examples in depth or get inspired with our favorite 75 examples). here is one of our favorite examples: john deere. note: if you are new to content marketing, check out our getting started how-to guide to understand what content marketing is. you need to understand your purpose once you understand what content is and why you want to invest your time, you need to create your strategy. your strategy helps you avoid the one mistake that is causing companies to fail at content marketing. and, as our annual research has repeatedly shown, it’s a key differentiator between effective marketers and their less effective peers. before you do start your content marketing plan, you need to understand why you are creating content in the first place. the best and simplest way to solidify your purpose is to create your content marketing mission statement. launching a successful content marketing program has never been easier. download our free workbook and let us take you every step of the way. plan is the first step in building a successful content marketing strategy. download our white paper, the cmi content marketing framework: 7 building blocks to success, for an overview of the process, or learn about the other steps with our how-to guides on the right-hand side of the page. connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree