home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs contact me hi! i love to hear from my readers. tell me about your projects. ask me a question or feel free to drop me a little note. comments are so far and few these days, an email lets me know that someone is still reading my tutorials. believe it or not, emails from my readers are the joy that keeps me blogging. you can reach me via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com *remove the (at) and replace it with the @ symbol. please forgive me if it takes a few days to respond to your email. being the owner of two businesses, this blog, and running after two young children keeps me “pretty” busy. {please read: if you are a pr agent, company or website owner looking for exposure, please read the information on the advertising/pr page.} comments steve matthews says september 4, 2018 at 1:13 pm hi pretty handy girl from ‘across the pond’… in your window bench pin you talk about a kreg jig. can you recommend (in your opinion) the best all-round kreg jig? many thanks! reply brittany bailey says september 6, 2018 at 9:56 am this is the one i have and it works well both inside the support and for free clamping. https://amzn.to/2noes7s also, you’ll probably find this tutorial helpful: https://www.prettyhandygirl.com/how-to-use-a-kreg-jig/ reply lee tucci says september 16, 2018 at 9:22 pm how can i get plans for the painted house mail box. my brother will build it for me if i can get the plans. this mailbox is just what i want. it’s a beauty. you are so talented. thank you so much. leetucci reply lynn k says october 8, 2018 at 6:09 pm hi from raleigh! you just listed your real estate agent and i was wondering if you would consider sharing all the sources and companies you’ve used for etta. it would be great to have your recommendations. also, i have a question: i have a bathroom vanity that has what looks like a marble top and since we have hard community well water, there are white cloudy areas forming that i can’t seem to get rid of. any ideas?? thanks for your terrific content! reply brittany bailey says october 12, 2018 at 10:16 pm hi lynn. like most general contractors, i don’t mind sharing a few of my subcontractors. but, most of them are highly sought after (aka busy), so i prefer to keep their information off the internet so they won’t be too busy to help me out on short notice. i hope you understand. regarding cleaning the counter top, this is what i’ve used on our cultured marble tops: https://www.prettyhandygirl.com/scrub-away-hard-water-stains/ reply paula says november 4, 2018 at 10:45 pm hi brittany, i have loved watching you work on etta on your blog. unfortunately, though i live in raleigh, i have another commitment on the day of your open house. will you still share the address so that i can drive by sometime to at least see the outside? thanks so much! reply brittany bailey says december 1, 2018 at 6:10 pm paula, it’s on s. person street ;-). reply celia rosencrans says december 5, 2018 at 10:36 pm loved seeing what you have done with etta. i live in the far north so not able to see it in person. now that you are done, what would you do differently? reply brittany bailey says december 6, 2018 at 9:59 am celia, this is a great question. if you don’t mind, i might turn this into a blog post at the end. i have lots of notes i’ve made for myself but i think it would be great to share with everyone. reply eddie says january 22, 2019 at 4:33 pm just stumbled across your reindeer sign video on youtube. awesome!!! wow…love love love this sign you made. now….you made it look easy to do but for some of us…not so easy. wish you would make these signs and sell them. i’d buy one! just wanted to say how wonderful it was to watch your video and appreciate you taking the time to show all of us! have a great day! eddie reply tina nault says may 2, 2019 at 11:48 am hi there, we love your plans for the “building a window seat with storage in a bay window” my dad is going to build it with my son (his first project :)) it is 48 pages if you print it from your webpage – by any chance do you have this is a printable form? thanks so much, tina ([email protected]) reply brittany bailey says june 11, 2019 at 9:12 pm sorry, i don’t have another format. have you tried copying the text and paste it into a word doc? reply kickbikeontario says june 30, 2019 at 10:15 pm hi brittany: i absolutely love your farmhouse table . i was looking for a summer project and now i have one. is there a type of wood that you might suggest that will give the table that rough hue or would you suggest just the regular spruce that you can find at any hardware chain such as home depot? thanks for taking the time to respond. take care – rodger – brampton canada reply brittany bailey says july 15, 2019 at 2:13 pm rodger, you can find 4×4 lumber at a woodworking supply shop or true lumber yard (not home improvement super stores). for the look you want, see if you can find some salvage lumber in your area and have them mill it to size. reply kickbikeontario says july 15, 2019 at 2:19 pm hi brittany: thanks for getting back to me. i appreciate your suggestions and will follow-up at a reclaimed wood shop in my area. i am taking a leap of faith and hoping to create a dining room table that we can use indoors . you were the spark – much appreicated – rodger knight reply ruth donnelly says september 25, 2019 at 9:42 am hi-love your blogs & so enjoy seeing all your projects. we live in raleigh & are getting ready to move to a retirement community. have very nice porch furniture in need of love & a gorgeous (to me) dining room set, but it’s brown… any suggestions who might want to buy these pieces & try their hand at some of your projects. will also have 2 dressers (can only take chests with us), etc etc. any suggestions would be greatly appreciated. reply brittany bailey says october 20, 2019 at 12:16 am try offering them for sale on craig’s list or facebook marketplace. reply cinammonbear says december 29, 2019 at 10:59 pm hello, i wanted to point out that you don’t need to use polysterene beads for your diy poufs. polysterene is extremely bad for the environment. it never degrades. it breaks apart into smaller pieces which eventually end up in our streams, rivers and beaches. i highly recommend using an alternate material like, fabric scraps, wool (wool balls or just loose wool stuffing) and kapok. believe me, if you try these materials you will better as you will be doing something for the environment plus it’s healthier and feels good! thanks for reading ! reply read more comments: « 1 2 3 leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok