can't get enough treehugger? sign up now and have it sent straight to your inbox. daily and weekly newsletters available. email address email is required newsletters the daily newsletter the weekly newsletter subscribe × design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows finding a greener future design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows about contact newsletters advertisement contact us about treehugger learn more about the site and the people behind it on our about us page. submit your green tip to treehugger we are sorry, we do not accept unsolicited story submissions or guest posts. but we do welcome tips, so please choose a link below corresponding to the category of your tip: design science technology transportation general tips contact treehugger with a question or comment editor technical issues pr or marketing due to the volume of mail we receive, we can't guarantee a reply to all messages; but we'll try! who writes for treehugger? our editorial team is spread out all over the planet. learn more about who our writers and editors are over on the about page. mailing address treehugger is run virtually, and our writers and editors live across the globe, so the best way to reach us is by email. although we love to hear from you, snail mail requires plastic packaging, paper mailing materials, and fossil fuel to ship, so we prefer electronic communications instead. if you absolutely want to send us something physical please email the appropriate editor (using the links above) and ask us first -- you'll save yourself time, money and emissions. if you are a publisher wishing to send us a book for review, please e-mail the category editor (again, using the links at the top of the page) that matches the subject of the book, and if it's a good fit, we can help you determine where it should go. most popular right now the top us states for homesteading, tiny homes, and off-grid living here's what the real patch adams has been up to common household products that can kill the coronavirus alley cat laneway house looks a lot bigger than it is jupe health is an 'immediate response to hospital overcrowding' what's hot on facebook teach your child how to read a paper map 20 things to do with chickpeas this pandemic is changing how my family eats cdc lists oil of lemon eucalyptus as comparable to deet for mosquitoes about contact newsletters rss privacy policy copyright © 2020 narrative content group. all rights reserved