skip to content resources podcast portfolio blog about contact menu resources podcast portfolio blog about contact contact licensing inquiries if you would like to license a photo, that's great! please provide a description of the photo that interests you. if you found the photo online, please provide the url. that helps me identify the photo in my catalog to determine if it's still available for a license. some photos do have an exclusive use license. please also provide your intended use, which should include the medium where you need to use the photo and how long you wish to have the photo covered under license. finally, please be sure to provide good contact information so i can follow-up with your license inquiry. please state license inquiry in the subject field guest posting inquiries i receive many inquiries about guest posting. here are some things your inquiry should cover in order for me to consider the request. propose a topic. i cannot consider your request if you don't tell me what article you want to write. make sure the topic is relevant to my audience. this is a photography site. topics that do not help people in my audience won't be accepted. craft a proposal specific for this site. i'm looking for unique articles that benefit my audience. please do not send me a cut & paste request that you send to every other web site. clearly state “guest post” in the subject field. contact me i'd love to hear from you. please fill out the contact form with your message to let me know what's on your mind. thanks! subject what's on your mind? enter your message here name first last email comments this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. copyright © 2020 william beem free resources lightroom portrait brushes visual stories ebook lightroom classic performance hacks ebook creative portraits ebook navigation resources podcast portfolio blog about policies terms of use privacy policy disclaimer photo licensing contact menu terms of use privacy policy disclaimer photo licensing contact