skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about contact us share tweet pin hello! we pr esume that as you’ve landed on this page, you’d like to get in contact. we love hearing from you and really appreciate you taking the time out of your busy day to write. if you’d like to join our mailing list, where you will receive our weekly skint list which contains all the best money saving content and more from our site you can do so by subscribing here. we receive so many emails each day that it is impossible for us to reply straight away. please be assured though; we will get back to you, it just might take a little time. i want to suggest a blog post topic fantastic! some of the ideas we get for posts on the skint dad come from you, the reader. whether it’s from a blog post comment, a tweet or personal email; we love to hear your ideas. use the contact form below. i’ve noticed a site problem with the skint dad site 404’s and wrong links (although not many, i hope) do crop up from time to time. thank you for taking the time to let us know! choose the “report a site problem” option. i’m interested in working with skint dad from sponsored posts, giveaways, advertising and more; i am happy to discuss your needs. download our latest media kit and get in contact either by email or using the form below. i want to make you famous need a quote? want us to appear on your television or radio show? or maybe you would like us to feature in your fantastic publication. choose the “media enquiry” option below. i’ve got a different query whatever it is, pop in your questions and i’ll try my best to answer them. type of contact* suggest a topicreport a site problemwork with memedia enquirysomething else your name* (required) your email* (required) subject* (required) message* (required)   prefer snail mail? if you want to send us something or have a letter you want to pop in the post, you’ll find us at: skint media limited 22 church road tunbridge wells kent tn1 1jp registered in england and wales company no. 09991508 vat registration no. gb 318 7349 80 information commissioner’s office (ico) registration no. za20326 contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about