content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search content marketing consulting we help you connect with your customers 76% of companies say they’ll create more content this year than in any prior year. that’s a lot of competition for attention. as seth godin famously said, “content marketing is the only marketing left.” but how do you make your content actually stand out and succeed? by being truly, massively relevant. we can help. we’ll work with you to determine what your customers really want, where you’re exceeding those expectations, and where you may be falling short. we’ll evaluate your content marketing versus your key competitors and determine where you can create content that informs and delights your customers and prospects. we’ll also work to make sure you’re measuring content effectiveness optimally, whether you’re doing so from a b2c or b2b perspective. we use our decades of experience, proprietary audience insights, competitive analysis, advanced metrics system, and detailed research to craft content marketing programs that drive meaningful business results. our clients and case studies speak for themselves. how we work while we’ll tailor to your organization’s circumstances, many of our assignments look like this: deep research into your business/organization, category, competition, current content, customer insights, analytics, and more. qualitative analysis. 1:1 conversations with key stakeholders on your team, as well as interviews with prototypical customers and prospects quantitative analysis. detailed surveys of current customers, prospects, and lapsed customers to study key perspectives, attitudes, content consumption patterns, and more. strategy summary. assessment and overview of content marketing current and future states, including themes, messaging, calls to action, audiences, content marketing “shows” and channel alignments, metrics and measurement, and amplification. this deliverable also includes an unveiling of the key strategic transformations necessary to meet business objectives for content. this is the “what” of our work. operations playbooks. highly detailed documents (typically 3-5) that specify precisely what needs to be done to consistently and accurately put into practice the new/improved content marketing program described in the strategy summary. this is the “how” of our work. ongoing counsel. lightweight weekly support to answer questions, refine playbooks, connect dots, and pitch in where needed. this is like personal training for content marketing optimization. in addition to our content marketing consulting programs, we also create content marketing for our clients, and provide content marketing training via workshops, keynote presentations, and boot camps. speak to a convince & convert strategist let's schedule a call to chat about your marketing goals and challenges. a convince & convert strategist will get back to you within 1 business day (or sooner) to schedule your call. we can't wait to chat with you! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept