content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip events cmi webinars content marketing institute events content marketing awards the content marketing awards are presented and owned by the content marketing institute to recognize and award the best content marketing projects, agencies and marketers in the industry each year. the 2020 content marketing awards include 85 categories recognizing all aspects of content marketing, from strategy to distribution, from design to editorial. the content marketing awards program is the leading international awards program for corporate content creation and distribution. entry submission period is now open, enter today! contenttech summit dates updated august 10-12, 2020 | san diego, ca usa our contenttech mission is clear: we want to show how the effective use of technology and better processes can help your strategic efforts to create, manage, deliver and scale your enterprise content and provide your customers with better digital experiences. come to the contenttech summit to learn how new technologies and innovative processes are fundamentally changing what our work will look like in the next two to five years. attendees of contenttech will learn from practitioners and experts in content technology and marketing strategy. the best news? both speakers and attendees are trailblazing pioneers who are not just traveling the new content roads – but paving them. registration is now open. content marketing world 2020 october 13-16, 2020 – cleveland, oh usa content marketing world is the largest gathering of content marketing professionals in the world. content marketing world is the one event where you can learn and network with the best and the brightest in the content marketing industry. you will leave with all the materials you need to take a content strategy back to your team – and – to implement a content marketing plan that will grow your business and engage your audience. registration is now open #cmworld twitter chats want to discuss the latest trends in content marketing and get advice from some of the experts? each week join cmi (@cmicontent) and a guest as we discuss key content marketing topics. simply follow #cmworld on twitter to join the conversation. full schedule and more info here. cmi webinars 5 creative ways content marketers can better support their sales team wednesday, april 1, 2020 | 2:00 pm eastern daylight time | free webinar most content marketers focus on meeting marketing’s needs to build brand awareness, drive demand, or nurture prospects to convert them to qualified leads. marketing, working with subject matter experts from business units or product marketing, generates many content pieces and customizes them to satisfy different marketing channels. sales, in a way, is not necessarily on content marketers’ priority list. however, for complex sales or when selling technology, content to showcase technology and product benefits is key to moving prospects through the sales funnel. content marketers need to work with both sales and marketing. pam didner will share with you some creative ways to expand your content efforts to the sales side. she’ll help you understand that sales is just another marketing channel for you to showcase your company’s content. fuel your content & growth marketing strategies with competitive intelligence wednesday, april 8, 2020 | 2:00 pm eastern daylight time | free webinar understanding your competitive landscape is necessary to uncover opportunities to win. it starts with shifting your mindset from content creation and distribution to strategic execution and measurement. watch this webinar to learn how competitive intelligence can help increase your brand awareness, increase traffic, and improve conversion rates. missed a webinar? please be sure to visit our webinar page for our on demand options. connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree