contact us got a question, comment or thank you note to send our way? that's awesome and we can't wait to hear from you. it's our goal to help as many people have memorable experiences in the outdoors. we hope that we can help you do just that. that's awesome and we can't wait to hear from you. it's our goal to help as many people have memorable experiences in the outdoors. we hope that we can help you do just that. get your questions answered fast post your question to our forums where you'll get insightful answers from some of the most adventurous people from around the world. hiking kayaking bike touring scuba diving mountain biking outdoor photo liveaboard diving snow sports climbing hiking scuba diving liveaboard diving kayaking mountain biking bike touring snow sports climbing outdoor photo faq time is everyone's most valuable resource. with that in mind, please read over these frequently asked questions before sending us an email. time is everyone's most valuable resource. with that in mind, please read over these frequently asked questions before sending us an email. how can i get my site on your rankings list? if you want to submit your blog to our top-blogs rankings for hiking, diving, bicycle touring and adventure travel (updated yearly), please do so by clicking on the button below. if you want to submit your blog to our top-blogs rankings for hiking, diving, bicycle touring and adventure travel (updated yearly), please do so by clicking on the button below. rankings rankings do you accept guest posts? we are not accepting guest posts at this time. however, we're always looking for writers to work with us. check out the current available positions on the button below. we are not accepting guest posts at this time. however, we're always looking for writers to work with us. check out the current available positions on the button below. opportunities opportunities can we send you our products to test? we are an independent site who values reader's trust more than anything. we provide honest and unbiased advice. therefore, we do not take any sponsored content, product reviews or any type of partnership with specific brands. we are an independent site who values reader's trust more than anything. we provide honest and unbiased advice. therefore, we do not take any sponsored content, product reviews or any type of partnership with specific brands. can we advertise on the adventure junkies? we work very hard to provide the best possible reader's experience with an ad-free website. therefore, we do not provide any space for banner advertising (or any sort of ads) on the adventure junkies. we work very hard to provide the best possible reader's experience with an ad-free website. therefore, we do not provide any space for banner advertising (or any sort of ads) on the adventure junkies. the adventure junkies the adventure junkies contact us have you read all the options above but still need to get in touch? no worries. drop us an email by clicking the button below. a friendly reminder: requests for guest posts, product reviews and/or advertising will be ignored. have you read all the options above but still need to get in touch? no worries. drop us an email by clicking the button below. a friendly reminder: requests for guest posts, product reviews and/or advertising will be ignored. contact us contact us © 2018 the adventure junkies llc. all rights reserved about how do we review privacy policy terms contact jobs this website uses cookies to improve your experience. we'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.accept reject read more × privacy overview privacy overview