skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about contactless limit to be increased to £45 by naomi willis | last updated 23rd march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links share tweet pin the contactless spending limit is increasing from £30 to £45 from 1 april 2020 to help protect consumers and speed up queues at checkout. the current contactless limit to shop without tapping your pin is currently £30, but the spending limit is increasing to £45 from 1 april 2020. you will not be able to use the £45 contactless in all shops straight away. the new limit is being rolled out gradually. uk finance has said the decision to raise the limit was after consultation between the retail sector and the finance and payments industry. the change to the contactless limit had been under review for a while. but, it has been brought forward as a way to support consumers who want to use contactless for purchases, instead of chip and pin, during the coronavirus pandemic. other european counties have also increased their limits over the last week. increases in greece, ireland, malta, poland and turkey have all gone ahead very recently to help consumers. when is the contactless limit increasing? from 1 april 2020, you will start to see more retailers accepting contactless with the new higher limit of £45. ok, most shops will be shut so you won’t see it in too many stores. if you wanted to pay for more than £45 and still don’t want to touch the payment terminal, you could always look to set up your contactless mobile payment which has a higher upper limit. stephen jones, ceo of uk finance, said: “the payments industry has been working closely with retailers to be able to increase the contactless payment limit to help customers with their shopping at this critical time for the country. “this will give more people the choice to opt for the speed and convenience of purchasing goods using their contactless card, helping to cut queues at the checkout. “the industry continues to work closely with the government and regulators to support customers impacted by covid-19 and ensure that they can pay in a way that suits them.” is this the end of cash? there are more people using cards nowadays, but there is still a big push for the government to keep access to cash. in 2019, a massive £80.5 billion was spent on contactless payments, the latest uk finance figures reveal. that’s 16% higher than the previous year! some people are worried about fraud when using contactless cards. but, contactless fraud on payment cards and devices represents just 3.3% of overall card fraud losses, while 44% of all card transactions were contactless last year. the fraud works out to be around 2.5p in every £100, so while it’s still awful, it’s not very high. also read: do you need an rfid wallet to stop contactless card fraud? is it safe to use cash? it is still safe to use cash. the following places say there is no scientific evidence to say that cash can spread coronavirus: the world health organisation the bank of england the european central bank and other national central banks, and renowned scientific institutions so, there is no reason not to continue using cash. there is no scientific evidence that there is an increased risk of spreading the coronavirus through the use of cash. :: come and join thousands of other savvy shoppers in the reduce your supermarket spend facebook community to find out tips and tricks to save money on your food shop. enjoy this post? why not also sign up to receive our newsletter. we send out all the best money saving news and tips from the site, and as an added bonus you’ll get an exclusive £16 cashback from quidco (new members only) naomi willis naomi knows the burden of living on very little and became debt free by learning from past mistakes and following her own money saving tips and tricks. skintdad.co.uk * to ensure skint dad remains completely free to use, this post may contain affiliate links. contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about