contenttech summit is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. toggle navigation home agenda speakers featured speakers faq justify your trip health and safety at contenttech summit code of conduct sustainability at contenttech summit travel registration contenttech post-show video access sponsorship opportunities 2020 exhibitors & sponsors blog mute your browser does not support the video tag. i suggest you upgrade your browser. contenttech summit event update: new dates, details below register now when august 10-12, 2020 where san diego, ca us marriott marquis san diego marina new dates for contenttech summit in light of corporate travel considerations continuing to escalate and after close consultation with partners and community members, we’ve made the difficult decision to reschedule contenttech summit to august 10-12, 2020. we worked as quickly as possible to secure new dates so that you can adjust your plans accordingly. having spent the past year preparing for the event with our speakers, exhibitors and event partners, we're genuinely disappointed not to be able to host you in april, but the experience and safety of our community and everyone involved in the event continues to be our top priority. please see our faq page for more details. notify me when registration reopens marketing has become chaotic and unpredictable. we’re ready to embrace it, and the effective use of content and technology are paramount. our contenttech conference mission is clear: we want to show how the effective use of technology and better processes can help your strategic efforts to create, manage, deliver and scale your enterprise content and provide your customers with better digital experiences. come to contenttech summit to learn how new technologies and innovative processes are fundamentally changing what our work will look like in the next two to five years. attendees of the 2020 contenttech conference in san diego will learn from practitioners and experts in content technology and marketing strategy. the best news? both speakers and attendees are trailblazing pioneers who have set the bar for epic content marketing through technology. why contenttech summit? it’s time for an evolution. senior marketing executives are truly focused on one thing: technology and its effective use to create, manage, deliver, and scale enterprise content and marketing. contenttech summit wants to keep pace with industry leaders and push our entire community forward. who should attend? vps, senior directors and directors in marketing, digital marketing, marketing innovation, marketing technology, demand generation, marketing operations, customer advocacy, customer experience, and ecommerce, as well as cmos, cdos, ctos, ccos, and anyone else working at the convergence point of content, technology and strategy. what will be answered? the biggest questions you have: how do we ensure our business is using or preparing for the right content and marketing technology innovations? how do we fill our customers’ needs for epic experiences? how do we use content and technology to help us in the ever-changing marketing landscape? how do we sort through the thousands of opportunities available to us? 2020 popular speakers more popular speakers cleve gibbon chief technology officer, wunderman thompson view speaker bio alan zweibel original saturday night live writer, screenwriter & best-selling author view speaker bio wendy richardson svp, global technical services, mastercard worldwide view speaker bio marin perez senior content marketing manager, microsoft view speaker bio liz willits senior content marketing specialist, aweber view speaker bio megan gilhooly vp customer experience, zoomin software view speaker bio robert rose chief strategy advisor, content marketing institute view speaker bio allison wert content marketing manager, frontline education view speaker bio meg walsh senior director, content services, hilton view speaker bio more popular speakers contenttech news view all posts check out our latest posts jan 14 2020 alan zweibel, original saturday night live writer, screenwriter & best-selling author to keynote contenttech summit 2020 we’re so thrilled to announce alan zweibel will be the closing keynote at contenttech summit in san diego, ca on april 22, 2020. nov 04 2019 contenttech summit 2020 – are you mastering your strategy? content is everywhere. we need to make sure the content we're creating the most useful, relevant and efficient resource. mar 06 2019 contenttech summit exhibitor highlight: internet marketing inc. imi is a full-service digital marketing agency focused on omnichannel strategies and results. feb 01 2019 [theme announced!] contenttech 2019: experiences in focus technology can help content marketers to get the right content to the right audience at the right time, focusing our efforts, and providing our customers with rich experiences online and off. nov 29 2018 henry rollins to headline cmi’s contenttech summit 2019 in san diego henry rollins has told stories through his music and the spoken word, documented the stories in film, blogged and podcasted as well. oct 23 2018 contenttech summit half-day workshops: april 8, 2019 1-5pm get ready to roll up your sleeves and immerse yourself or your team in one of our four-hour contenttech workshops. each session is taught by experienced leaders in content technology, strategy and processes. these hands-on, interactive sessions will arm you with fresh ideas and actionable strategies. if you are interested in building your knowledge of… contenttech summit 2020 sponsors become a sponsor thanks to all our sponsors gold sponsor silver sponsor bronze sponsor specialty sponsor media partner become a sponsor days until contenttech summit 2020 0 days 0 hours 0 minutes 0 seconds discover more from content marketing institute content marketing institute content marketing world content marketing university content marketing awards working with us contact us about us advertise/exhibitors follow contenttech summit on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using contenttech summit, you accept our use of cookies. i agree up ‹ › ×