about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ contact hello there! thank you for your interest. please click on the following topics for relevant information and contact details, where applicable. ▸ recipe questions and recipe feedback please leave a public comment on the recipe page. that way, other readers will be able to see the answers to your question and/or will benefit from your feedback. scroll past the recipe and you will find the comment form. comments are checked and answered on a near-daily basis monday through friday. i look forward to hearing from you! ▸ general reader questions and feedback happy to hear from you! i try really hard to respond to every reader’s email. it might take me a few days to get back to you. you can reach me at hello@cookieandkate.com. however, if you have questions or comments about a specific recipe—please leave a public comment on that recipe’s page. you’re far more likely to get a quick response there, and other readers will benefit from the answer, too. ▸ cookbook questions my cookbook, love real food, was released on may 16th, 2017. view more details and find links to purchase here. ▸ sharing my recipes or photos please review my photo and recipe policy. you will likely find your answer there. ▸ advice for food bloggers i’m sorry, given time restraints, i can’t mentor aspiring food bloggers. i’ve written the following resources for you and hope you find them helpful: how to start a food blog food photography tips 20 tips for food bloggers ▸ sponsorship inquiries over the years, i’ve partnered with high-quality brands that align with cookie and kate’s whole foods-focused philosophy. i’m thankful for the brands that have supported cookie and kate. in order to focus on cookie and kate projects, however, i am not accepting sponsorships for the year 2019. ▸ freelance inquiries over the years, i’ve offered custom recipe development, food photography and more. in 2019, i’m devoting my full attention to cookie and kate, so i’m not accepting freelance work at this time. ▸ advertising inquiries i’m not interested in additional ad services. i’m happy with my current set-up, and trust my ad manager to bring promising opportunities to my attention. advertising-related inquiries will not receive a response. ▸ product reviews, free products and giveaways i do not accept free products. i do not offer traditional product reviews. i do not accept products in exchange for reviews. i almost never offer giveaways, and make the rare exception for high-value products that i already use and love. requests for any of the above will not receive a response. ▸ guest posts, infographics and text links i never accept guest posts or articles (all content is written by me). i never share infographics. i never accept requests for paid text links (i follow guidelines set forth by the ftc and google). inquiries related to any of the above will not receive a response and will be marked as spam. ▸ help with school projects i’m getting a lot of these requests lately! i want to help, but please allow at least two weeks for me to answer your questions so i don’t leave you hanging. please send them all to me in one email, and keep them reasonably brief in nature. ▸ kickstarter/indiegogo campaigns given the volume of requests, i cannot promote kickstarter campaigns or indiegogo campaigns. i’m sorry! ▸ apps and startups i’m sorry, i cannot offer free feedback to apps or startups, nor will i ask my audience to complete market surveys for you. i do not promote apps that i don’t find truly essential and i don’t accept unsolicited suggestions. given time restraints, inquiries related to any of the above will not receive a response. ▸ marketing inquiries, etc. thank you for your interest. i do not accept free products. you will hear back from me only if i’m genuinely interested in your product/message. you can reach me at hello@cookieandkate.com. please keep in mind that i never promote the following: processed foods meat or meat substitutes supplements of any kind protein powders or energy bars weight loss-related products fitness programs hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}