home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog airborne everyday giveaway april 1, 2015 by erin weiss leave a comment i recently started taking airborne everyday chewy vitamins and they are like candy. i have a hard time just having my two daily allotted gummies. have you ever tried airborne? if you're like me, your days are jam packed between work, the gym, home chaos and still trying to have a social life. sometimes it's hard for me to remember to take my daily vitamin but airborne … [read more...] marika fitness giveaway february 26, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment hey guys! i have partnered up with the lovely crew at marika fitness to do a giveaway for you my readers!! you have several ways to enter to win this adorable tank. they sent me one to try before i recommended it to you guys, and i absolutely love it! it's so cute and super comfy! i will pick a winner in a week! you have a ton of chances to win this tank!!! good … [read more...] baddass giveaway november 28, 2012 by erin weiss 52 comments it's time for another amazing giveaway for one of you lucky ducks!!! the fabulous folks over at baddass nutrition (awesome name, huh??!) are allowing me to host a giveaway for you guys :) one lucky winner will get to choose which option below they want, for free!!! 1. baddass shred to help sred fat and stimulate muscle growth. $60 value. 2. 1 bottle of raspberry … [read more...] fitography challenge november 11, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment i wanted to set up something fun for you guys to do while i'm away on vacation, so we are having our first.... fit-ography challenge!!! here's how the challenge works. the challengers have already entered and i've divided you guys into two teams. you have about one week to complete as many of the 17 challenges as possible (listed below). to get points, all you need to … [read more...] muscle & fitness giveaway winner october 12, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments for the past week, i have been taking entries on this site and my facebook page for my muscle & fitness giveaway. well...it's that time to pick a winner!! thank you so much to everyone who voted and shared. it seems like a lot of you are like me and would love to try out new supplements to learn what works best in their body. there were also quite a few of you guys … [read more...] muscle and fitness giveaway! october 8, 2012 by erin weiss 42 comments the great folks over at muscle and fitness want to do a giveaway for all of you!!! how exciting, huh??!? i've never been one to use many supplements except for whey protein, but muscle and fitness is offering a new program to test out their supplements if you don't have a lot of experience with them. this program will help if you're inexperienced in supplements like … [read more...] vote for me pretty please! september 25, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment please take a second again today to vote for me for the face of fitness contest! this is through fitness magazine for a chance to be in the magazine and be the next face of fitness! i'm currently in third place and need more votes to stay up top! here is the link to vote today! (the link changes every day). click on the link or the picture to vote!!! you'll just hit … [read more...] face of fitness magazine contest september 24, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment i'm entered in fitness magazine's "face of fitness" contest!!!! i'm sure this is a long shot to win, however i'm going to give it a shot anyway. please take 2 seconds to vote for me every day this week. if i won this contest, i would be featured in fitness magazine!!!! you can go to the link below to vote for me. all you have to do is click "vote" and then enter in the … [read more...] amazeballs august 31, 2012 by erin weiss 3 comments yesterday was just an all-around amazing day. as giuliana rancic would say, "it was amaze-balls!!". the day consisted of: getting a few of my pictures back from my photo-shoot, a decent day at work (as decent as work can be!), winning a contest, did some web design for a client, had a great workout and got to take a nap! the contest i won was for two free tickets to run in … [read more...] sunday food prep & my typical sunday grocery list april 16, 2012 by erin weiss 8 comments let me start off this post with some bad news. unfortunately i didn't win the bahamas commercial & vacation. i'm so upset and i found out in the worst possible way too. on friday, i got an email saying something along the lines of "i'm the producer of the commercial, congratulations on winning..blah blah blah". at the top of the email, however, it said "dear april," … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in