content marketing university is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. toggle navigation home curriculum instructors enrollment faq sign in contact us content marketing university comprehensive virtual learning for today’s content marketing leaders. enroll now spring enrollment now open enrollment period march 1 - 31, 2020 content marketing university cmi university is your hub for all things related to content marketing education and training – your one-stop shop to help you do your job better and more effectively. enroll now http://www.contentmarketinguniversity.com/enrollment/ why cmi u? robert rose, cmi’s chief strategy officer, is bringing his content marketing master class series right to you, to work at your own pace, no matter where you are. who is enrolled in cmi u? enterprise brands and entire departments looking to hone their skills together, learning the same materials, as well as individuals wanting to advance their own practice of content marketing. what should i expect? an all new 2020 curriculum: 6 courses from robert rose, plus 50+ hours of ancillary content from top industry leaders - all focusing on particular topics for a deeper dive. what’s new at content marketing university? how do you increase the likelihood of developing a realistic, achievable and effective content marketing strategy? you need something complete, focused on simplicity and immediate action, but that also creates a level of comfort with ambiguous things, the unsaid, and the partial knowledge. you’re already “doing content” and left unchecked you’ll slowly move not toward failure – but worse – toward average. how do you and your team over-index and actually create a content marketing strategy that outperforms others? your content marketing is not a formula – but it can be created with a solid foundation that allows for the unknown and what will be discovered. introducing content marketing university 2020. as part of your 12-month enrollment, you’ll receive: our 2020 content marketing university curriculum our 50+ ancillary lessons so you can take a deeper dive into your area of expertise with this quarter focusing on customer experience, including: andrew davis, author of brandscaping and town, inc jacquie chakirelis, founder, online platform institute april henderson, vp, practice director & laura ramos, vp, principal analyst, forrester research sydni craig-hart, ceo & wil hart, coo, smart simple marketing have questions? faq as mentioned in faq enrollment for cmi university is now open. enroll now featured instructors view the full line-up robert rose author, "experiences: the seventh era of marketing" " & chief content adviser, content marketing institute view bio joe pulizzi author, "content inc," and founder, content marketing institute view bio ardath albee author, "digital relevance" view bio andrew davis author, "brandscaping: unleashing the power of partnerships" view bio arnie kuenn author, "content marketing works" & ceo, vertical measures view bio carla johnson co-author, "experiences: the 7th era of marketing" & president, type a communications view bio margot bloomstein author and principal, appropriate inc. view bio tim washer senior marketing manager of social media, cisco systems view bio michael brito group director, wcg view bio view the full line-up 500+ students per class 30+ hours of curriculum 25+ % of fortune 100 companies represented days until spring enrollment closes 0 days 0 hours 0 minutes 0 seconds discover more from content marketing institute content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards working with us contact us about us follow content marketing university on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing university, you accept our use of cookies. i agree up ‹ › ×