close mobile menu search this website home start here about resources podcast blog health beauty mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel reviews recipes beef recipes breakfast recipes condiment recipes dessert recipes drink recipes pork recipes poultry recipes salad recipes seafood recipes side dish recipes snack recipes soup & stew recipes newsletter shop menu skip to right header navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer simple answers for healthier families about start here resources podcast blog beauty health mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel recipes reviews shop search you are here: home » contact wellness mama contact wellness mama we love hearing from readers and wellness mama podcast listeners. while we read each and every message received, we can’t respond to every one due to the volume. we strive to provide solutions to every question and contact in some way so please read through all of the options below to figure out the best way to connect! connect with the community the wellness mama community is incredibly active and helpful, and you can ask questions in the official wellness mama facebook group, on twitter using the hashtag #wellnessmama, via instagram, or on the wellness mama facebook page. you’ll get support and questions answered from the amazing community there! health and medical questions katie is not a doctor and does not play one on the internet… or tv. so if your question relates to a specific medical condition or symptom, we cannot provide any health or medical advice in these areas. we always advise you to consult a qualified medical professional about your specific condition and to do your own research. we personally use and highly recommend the physicians at steadymd who can answer health and medical questions via phone or text. you can connect with them directly here. if you’re pregnant or nursing and are curious about the safety of a specific natural remedy, recipe, or diy tutorial, please check with your doctor or midwife before trying it out. questions about articles, recipes, or podcast episode if you have questions on a specific health article, diy tutorial, recipe, podcast episode, please leave your question as a comment below the article so that other readers can benefit from the dialogue as well. if you have general questions related to nutrition, health, or wellness, i’d recommend checking out the start here page or doing a simple google search with the words “wellness mama _____” with the blank being whatever you are looking for information on. that will bring up any information that i’ve covered on the topic. if you are new to the wellness lifestyle, real food, and natural living, please check out the resources page which lists many of the products katie uses daily and recommends to friends and family. blog post or podcast suggestion if there is topic you would like to suggest i write about in a blog post or discuss on the wellness mama podcast that has not already been covered, leave it as a suggestion below (please use the site search feature before emailing to make sure it hasn’t been tackled already). you will most likely not get an email response back, but if there is enough interest or it’s a topic i think would be a good fit, i’ll consider researching and writing about it or interviewing an expert about it on the podcast. appearing as a guest on the wellness mama podcast is by invitation only, and guests are typically booked out three months in advance. if you or someone you know has a unique expertise on a relevant health topic and think it would make for an interesting interview, you can apply to be a guest on the show here. guest posts wellness mama does not accept unsolicited guest posts and any emails requesting to guest post on the blog will be marked as spam and ignored. thanks for understanding. linking to or reposting content all content on wellnessmama.com is copyright and all rights are reserved. content may not be reprinted, reposted or republished in any form as this is duplicate content that can be penalized by search engines and hurt both websites. we also do not allow translation and publication of our content in other languages. we allow links back to our website and specific posts on our site from high quality educational websites. we also allow quotes of up to 200 words provided that there is a link back to the original post. the term “wellness mama” is a registered mark (®) with the us patent and trademark office, and its use is protected as such. this means it can’t be used in any company or commercial way including the two words together with other words added to it. advertising, sponsorship, & promotions wellnessmama.com only accepts advertising through the cafe media/adthrive advertising network, and only companies who meet our stringent standards are accepted. if you are interested in having your company’s ad(s) displayed on our website, please contact adthrive directly to inquire about opportunities. wellness mama works directly with sponsors for the wellness mama podcast, one of the top rated health, wellness, and natural living podcasts in the world. we only work with companies and brands whose products, mission, and values align with ours. full disclosure: most companies do not meet our very strict partnership quality guidelines. wellness mama does not work with or allow any of the following: free product in exchange for a review paid links or link exchanges brand ambassadorships non-curated advertisements third party promotional companies or services network marketing, multi-level marketing, or other pyramid structured companies unsolicited joint venture promotions or partnerships emails regarding any of the above will not be answered. if you are a company or brand with amazing quality and values and feel your products, values, and mission align with ours and are interested in becoming a podcast sponsor, please fill out the contact form below after reading through our promotional guidelines. thanks as always for reading wellnessmama.com! contact me your name* first last your email* enter email confirm email your subject* blog or podcast topic suggestionsupport question (ebook, course, affiliate link, etc.)podcast sponsorship & advertisingwebsite issue (broken link, tech problem, etc.)press or media inquiry company name* company website* your message* name this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. footer sitemap start here comment policy affiliate disclosure newsletter privacy policy terms of service full disclaimer promo guidelines contact site footer the information on this website has not been evaluated by the fda and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease. by accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the terms of service, full disclaimer, privacy policy, affiliate disclosure, and comment policy. content may not be reproduced in any form. ads provided by cafemedia family & parenting network. displayed ads do not constitute endorsement or recommendation by wellness mama. copyright © 2006–2020 wellness mama® · all rights reserved · sitemap