content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip content marketing framework: channels a good content marketing channel plan frees you from the constraints of any one content channel. as your blog efforts wane, or as social media channels come and go — or as your success on any one of them ebbs and wanes — you won’t be trapped into a singular channel. once you are ready to share your stories with the world, you need a strategic channel strategy in place. remember: the content strategy defines your channel strategy — not the other way around. so be sure you have a solid content strategy in place first (yes, even if that means going back to the “plan”) before you even start thinking about your channel plan. learn the 7 steps to create your content marketing channel plan. you may be wondering how social media fits into this. which channels are best for you? check out the conversation with cmi consultants carla johnson, michael weiss, ardath albee, and jay baer. as cmi’s content marketing research indicates, there are four primary channels marketers use: facebook, linkedin, twitter, and youtube. get insights on how to use these as well as 10 other channels in 58 social media tips for content marketing. this is also a time when editorial planning, and even budgeting, should start to occur. here are some posts to help you plan your editorial efforts: a 2-step editorial calendar template that can boost your content marketing productivity 5 keys to an editorial calendar that keeps your content on track how to put together an editorial calendar for content marketing channels is the fourth step in building a successful content marketing strategy. download our white paper, the cmi content marketing framework: 7 building blocks to success, for an overview of the process, or learn about the other steps with our how-to guides on the right-hand side of the page. connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree