all episodes twitter facebook medium join the newsletter listen to the podcast subscribe on google podcasts subscribe on apple podcasts all episodes listen to the podcast subscribe on google podcasts subscribe on apple podcasts listening produces know ledge on the conversations with tyler podcast, esteemed economist tyler cowen engages with today’s most underrated thinkers in wide-ranging explorations of their work, the world, and everything in between. listen to the podcast subscribe on google podcasts subscribe on apple podcasts explore transcripts join the newsletter about the podcast get in touch you can’t imitate a worldview. but you can form your own by listening and learning (and learning how to listen). on the conversations with tyler podcast, produced by the mercatus center at george mason university, celebrated polymath and academic economist tyler cowen explores the minds and methods of today’s top thinkers. tyler’s intense research leads to stimulating and surprising questions that provoke guests into deep examinations of their work and how they see the world. eager to exploit their insights? all you have to do is listen. latest episodes episode highlights ross douthat on decadence and dynamism (ep. 91) listen in apple podcasts listen in google podcasts listen to full episode episode highlights russ roberts and tyler on covid-19 (ep. 90 - bonus) listen in apple podcasts listen in google podcasts listen to full episode episode highlights john mcwhorter on linguistics, music, and race (ep. 89 - live at mason) listen in apple podcasts listen in google podcasts listen to full episode episode highlights garett jones on democracy (more or less) (ep. 88) listen in apple podcasts listen in google podcasts listen to full episode featured episodes peter thiel peter thiel peter thiel malcolm gladwell malcolm gladwell malcolm gladwell camille paglia camille paglia camille paglia margaret atwood margaret atwood margaret atwood paul romer paul romer paul romer ben westhoff ben westhoff ben westhoff paul krugman paul krugman paul krugman neal stephenson neal stephenson neal stephenson daniel kahneman daniel kahneman daniel kahneman ed boyden ed boyden ed boyden jordan peterson jordan peterson jordan peterson david brooks david brooks david brooks sam altman sam altman sam altman karl ove knausgård karl ove knausgård karl ove knausgård mary roach mary roach mary roach upcoming live shows sign up for updates conversations with tyler records live episodes several times a year in places like washington, d.c., san francisco, and new york city. check here to see when the show is coming to your neck of the woods. about the mercatus center visit mercatus.org the mercatus center at george mason university is the world’s premier university source for market-oriented ideas—bridging the gap between academic ideas and real-world problems. as a university-based research center, the mercatus center trains students, produces research of consequence, and persuasively communicates economic ideas to solve society’s most pressing problems and advance knowledge about how markets work to improve people’s lives. newsletters are underrated get the latest #cowenconvos delivered straight to your inbox. submit tell your friends “i found tyler’s secret message on the conversations with tyler site! can you?” tweet share