skip to content marketop data marketing agency home about solutions blog contact home about solutions blog contact convert website visitors into leads you are here: home livechat convert website visitors into leads apr162018livechat converting website visitors into leads steps to successfully turning visitors into customers it can be frustrating to see visitors to your website and a lack of sales or signups. what are you doing wrong? although people may be visiting your website, it takes onsite tools and a few tricks to get them to actually sign up for your product or service. you can learn how to convert website traffic into sales by simply stepping back and focusing on what would make someone stick around longer. these tips can help you to get started. consider a/b testing it could be your website’s layout or overall organization. a/b testing is a process that can help you to see what really works. also known as split testing, it allows for you to see what types of website setups get results. for example, you can test two separate headlines to see which format, wording choice, or other elements get more clicks. using a/b testing software, half of your traffic will go to each page. if one gets significantly more results, you can model future pages off those results. add onsite live chat agents here’s something that works very well for service businesses as well as those websites where customers need immediate answers. live chat agent services, like those from marketop are an outstanding way to give customers the information they want right away. for example, a visitor reaches the site, reads a bit about the product or service, and then needs more information. instead of clicking off the page, live chat agents can answer those questions right away, securing the lead in most cases. ensure seo is truly targeted there’s no benefit to having website visitors if they are not truly interested in your product or service. it’s better to have 100 visitors that are interested in your product than 1000 with little true need. this comes down to seo. if your seo isn’t targeting the right keywords and markets, it is ineffective. it is essential to take a closer look at what you are targeting, where your seo may be lacking, and what you can do differently to get better qualified leads. these ultimately convert. are you offering a clear value proposition? what’s in it for the website visitor? a value proposition tells the customer why they should buy from you. it’s important that your website or landing page answer two questions: • what’s in it for me? • why should i buy from you? what makes value propositions difficult for many business owners is that they tend to struggle with presenting this information. in short, your page should communicate, in the most straightforward method possible, what it has to offer. be sure your value proposition differs from your competition, is accurate, and is a direct reflection of what the customer really needs or wants to make these decisions. fast tips for improved conversions there are many other factors to consider when developing a website and increasing your conversions. these are some of the simplest changes you can make now to see results. when you learn how to convert website traffic into sales with these tips, you can start to see improvements right away: • add a guarantee to your product or service. aim for a no-questions-asked type of policy on any purchase. this reduces the visitor’s risk. • use action verbs on every page – “get yours now” and “reserve your spot” • use real testimonials on your page to create “social proof” that you are the ideal company to work with • keep your conversion element in the upper half of the web page. this includes opt-in boxes and forms. • add video to your page to help build brand awareness and professionalism • ensure a strong call to action is present on every page of the website and blog • use easy-to-understand and motivating headlines most importantly, ask your visitors why they signed up or what their needs are. the more interacting you can do with your customers, the more likely you are to get the results you really need and want. at marketop, we can help you to drive traffic that’s highly targeted to your site and then turn them into leads. find us on:facebooktwitterlinkedin © 2020 marketop ❤️ nyc privacy policies terms of use useful links go to top