menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: communication, dating, etiquette, friendship, marriage, relationships & family, small talk, social skills brett & kate mckay • january 24, 2020 how to avoid conversational narcissism with our archives now 3,500+ articles deep, we’ve decided to republish a classic piece each friday to help our newer readers discover some of the best, evergreen gems from the past. this article was originally published in may 2011. last month i met up with an old friend i hadn’t seen in forever to have lunch. having both read and written about how to be an effective and charismatic conversationalist, i followed the old dictum of listening more than talking and asking the other person engaging questions about themselves. this is supposed to charm your conversation partner. i guess it worked because my friend talked about himself for an hour straight and didn’t ask me a single question. when we’ve talked about the ins and outs of making good conversation before, someone inevitably asks, “but what if both people keep trading questions back and forth?” well, that’s a pretty good problem to have, but i’ve yet to see it happen. instead, most folks seem to struggle with asking any questions at all and have a very difficult time relinquishing the floor. in a time where a lot of the old social supports people relied upon have disappeared, people have become starved for attention. they bring this hunger to their conversations, which they see as competitions in which the winner is able to keep the attention on themselves as much as possible. and this is turning the skill of conversation-making into a lost art. conversational narcissism in the pursuit of attention, sociologist charles derber shares the fascinating results of a study done on face-to-face interactions, in which researchers watched 1,500 conversations unfold and recorded how people traded and vied for attention. dr. derber discovered that despite good intentions, and often without being aware of it, most people struggle with what he has termed “conversational narcissism.” conversational narcissists always seek to turn the attention of others to themselves. your first reaction to this statement is likely, “oh, i don’t do that, but i know someone who does!” but not so fast. conversational narcissism typically does not manifest itself in obviously boorish plays for attention; most people give at least some deference to social norms and etiquette. instead, it takes much more subtle forms, and we’re all guilty of it from time to time. everyone has felt that itch where we couldn’t wait for someone to stop talking so we could jump in; we pretended to be listening intently, but we were really focusing on what we were about to say once we found an opening. so today we’re going to discuss the ways in which conversational narcissism creeps into our interactions with others. while it may seem a bit strange that conversations can be analyzed this deeply, dr. derber’s research is filled with some really brilliant insights that will help you see how a conversation unfolds and how you can easily fall into the conversational narcissism trap. i know it did for me. conversations: competition vs. cooperation the quality of any interaction depends on the tendencies of those involved to seek and share attention. competition develops when people seek to focus attention mainly on themselves; cooperation occurs when the participants are willing and able to give it. —dr. charles derber a good conversation is an interesting thing; it can’t be a solely individual endeavor — it has to be a group effort. each individual has to sacrifice a little for the benefit of the group as a whole and ultimately, to increase the pleasure each individual receives. it’s like a song where the rhythm is paramount, and each person in the group must contribute to keeping that rhythm going. one person who keeps on playing a sour note can throw the whole thing off. that’s why it’s so important that conversations are cooperative instead of competitive. but many people (and dr. derber argues, americans especially, because of our culture of individual initiative, self-interest, and self-reliance) make conversations into competitions. they want to see if they can get the edge on the other people in the group by turning the attention to themselves as much as possible. this is accomplished through the subtle tactics of conversational narcissism. how conversational narcissism manifests itself so let’s get down to the nuts and bolts. how does conversational narcissism rear its head and derail what could have been a great face-to-face interaction? during a conversation, each person makes initiatives. these initiatives can either be attention-giving or attention-getting. conversational narcissists concentrate more on the latter because they are focused on gratifying their own needs. attention-getting initiatives can take two forms: active and passive. active conversational narcissism the response a person gives to what someone says can take two forms: the shift-response and the support-response. the support-response keeps attention on the speaker and on the topic he or she has introduced. the shift-response attempts to set the stage for the other person to change the topic and shift the attention to themselves. let’s look at an example of the difference between the two: support-response james: i’m thinking about buying a new car. rob: oh yeah? what models have you looked at? shift-response james: i’m thinking about buying a new car. rob: oh yeah? i’m thinking about buying a new car too. james: really? rob: yup, i just test drove a mustang yesterday and it was awesome. in the first example, rob kept the attention on james with his support-response. in the second example, rob attempts to turn the conversation to himself with a shift-response. the shift-response if often very subtle. people put in a nice transition to disguise it by prefacing their response with something like, “that’s interesting,” “really?” “i can see that,” right before they make a comment about themselves. “oh yeah?” and then they’ll tie their response into the topic at hand, “i’m thinking about buying a new car too.” now it’s important to point out that a shift-response just opens up the opportunity for a person to grab the attention, but it doesn’t necessarily mean they’re going to. it’s a matter of intent. you might simply be looking to highlight what the other person has said and share a bit of your own experience before bringing the conversation back to the other person. that’s a healthy and natural part of the give and take of conversation. let’s turn back to rob and james: james: i’m thinking about buying a new car. rob: oh yeah? i’m thinking about buying a new car too. james: really? maybe we could go look around together. rob: sure. so what models are you looking at? james: that’s the thing — i’m not sure where to start. rob: well, what are the most important things to you — fuel economy, storage room, horsepower? so here rob interjected about himself, but then he turned the conversation back to james. conversational narcissists, on the other hand, keep interjecting themselves until the attention has shifted to them. like this: james: i’m thinking about buying a new car. rob: oh yeah? i’m thinking about buying a new car too. james: really? maybe we could go look around together. rob: sure. i just test drove the mustang yesterday and it was awesome. james: that’s cool. i don’t think i want a sports car though. rob: well, i want something with at least 300 horsepower and definitely leather seating. did i ever tell you about the time my buddy let me take his maserati out for a spin? now that is an automobile. james: which one of your friends has a maserati? most conversational narcissists — careful not to appear rude — will mix their support and shift responses together, using just a few more shift-responses, until the topic finally shifts entirely to them. conversational narcissists succeed when they elicit a support-response from their partner: “which one of your friends has a maserati?” to summarize, it’s fine to share things about yourself, as long as you loop the conversation back to the person who initiated the topic. the best rule to follow is simply not to jump in too early with something about yourself; the earlier you interject, the more likely you are to be making a play to get the attention on yourself. instead, let the person tell most of their story or problem first, and then share your own experience. passive conversational narcissism conversational narcissism can take an even subtler form. instead of interjecting about themselves and trying to initiate a new topic, conversational narcissists can simply withhold their support-responses until the other person’s topic withers away and they can take the floor. to understand how this works, let’s first look at the three forms support-responses can take — each one represents an ascending level of engagement and interest with the topic and speaker: background acknowledgments: minimal acknowledgments that you’re listening, such as, “yeah,” “uh-huh,” “hmm,” sure.” supportive assertions: acknowledgments that show active listening. “that’s great,” “you should go for it,” “that’s not right.” supportive questions: questions show that you’re not only listening, but are interested in hearing more. “why did you feel that way?” “what was his response when you said that? “what are you going to do now?” a conversational narcissist can kill someone’s story dead in its tracks by withholding these support-responses, especially by not asking any questions. etiquette dictates that we don’t ramble on and share every detail of a story right off the bat. we say a bit, and then wait for further questions, so we know that the person we’re speaking with is interested in what we have to say. in the absence of such questions, the speaker will begin to doubt that what they’re saying is interesting. so they’ll stop speaking and turn the attention to the other person. a victory for the conversational narcissist. conversationalist narcissists will also show their disinterest in the speaker by delaying their background acknowledgments — those all important “yeah’s” and “hmmm’s.” good conversationalists place their background acknowledgments in just the rights spots, in the small natural pauses in the conversation. the narcissist tries to adhere to social expectations by giving the speaker some cursory acknowledgments, but they’re not really listening, and so they throw them in there just a few seconds off. the speaker easily picks up on this skewed-timing and will stop talking and shift their attention to the narcissist. finally, one more form of conversational narcissism to avoid is the “well, enough about me, i want to hear more about you!” tactic. people will often pull out this kind of line right at the end of an event, so they can make a show of etiquette and interest in the other person, while not actually having to give that person attention that lasts more than a few minutes. becoming a master of the art of conversation avoiding these pitfalls of conversational narcissism will have you well on your way to becoming a competent and charismatic conversationalist. once someone introduces a topic, your job is to draw out the narrative from them by giving them encouragement in the form of background acknowledgments and supportive assertions, and moving their narrative along by asking supportive questions. once their topic has run its course, you can introduce your own topic. but as we mentioned earlier, it takes two to tango. it’s now your partner’s turn to ask you questions. if they don’t, you’ll sadly find yourself, as i did at the lunch with my friend, listening to a never-ending monologue. just smile and enjoy the chips. looking for more advice to up your social game? check out these resources! podcast: why you need to embrace small talk how to initiate small talk using the are method small talk: 5 questions to never ask my 21-day experiment making small talk with strangers podcast: why you should talk to strangers how to make small talk social skills archives source: the pursuit of attention by charles derber tags: art of conversation never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// 18 at-home date ideas how to build instant rapport podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy