cookie policy of makeawebsitehub.com cookies and other identifiers consist of portions of code installed in the browser that assist the owner in providing the service according to the purposes described. some of the purposes for which cookies are installed may also require the user's consent. where the installation of cookies is based on consent, such consent can be freely withdrawn at any time following the instructions provided in this document. technical cookies and cookies serving aggregated statistical purposes activity strictly necessary for the functioning of the service this website uses cookies to save the user's session and to carry out other activities that are strictly necessary for the operation of this website, for example in relation to the distribution of traffic. activity regarding the saving of preferences, optimization, and statistics this website uses cookies to save browsing preferences and to optimize the user's browsing experience. among these cookies are, for example, those used for the setting of language and currency preferences or for the management of first party statistics employed directly by the owner of the site. other types of cookies or third parties that install cookies some of the services listed below collect statistics in an anonymized and aggregated form and may not require the consent of the user or may be managed directly by the owner - depending on how they are described - without the help of third parties. if any third party operated services are listed among the tools below, these may be used to track users’ browsing habits – in addition to the information specified herein and without the owner’s knowledge. please refer to the privacy policy of the listed services for detailed information. advertising this type of service allows user data to be utilized for advertising communication purposes displayed in the form of banners and other advertisements on this website, possibly based on user interests. this does not mean that all personal data are used for this purpose. information and conditions of use are shown below. some of the services listed below may use cookies to identify users or they may use the behavioral retargeting technique, i.e. displaying ads tailored to the user’s interests and behavior, including those detected outside this website. for more information, please check the privacy policies of the relevant services. in addition to any opt out offered by any of the services below, the user may opt out of a third-party service's use of cookies by visiting the network advertising initiative opt-out page. google adsense (google inc.) google adsense is an advertising service provided by google inc. this service uses the “doubleclick” cookie, which tracks use of this website and user behavior concerning ads, products and services offered. users may decide to disable all the doubleclick cookies by clicking on: google.com/settings/ads/onweb/optout. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy – opt out. privacy shield participant. analytics the services contained in this section enable the owner to monitor and analyze web traffic and can be used to keep track of user behavior. google analytics with anonymized ip (google inc.) google analytics is a web analysis service provided by google inc. (“google”). google utilizes the data collected to track and examine the use of this website, to prepare reports on its activities and share them with other google services. google may use the data collected to contextualize and personalize the ads of its own advertising network. this integration of google analytics anonymizes your ip address. it works by shortening users' ip addresses within member states of the european union or in other contracting states to the agreement on the european economic area. only in exceptional cases will the complete ip address be sent to a google server and shortened within the us. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy – opt out. privacy shield participant. facebook ads conversion tracking (facebook pixel) (facebook, inc.) facebook ads conversion tracking (facebook pixel) is an analytics service provided by facebook, inc. that connects data from the facebook advertising network with actions performed on this website. the facebook pixel tracks conversions that can be attributed to ads on facebook, instagram and audience network. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. privacy shield participant. commercial affiliation this type of service allows this website to display advertisements for third-party products or services. ads can be displayed either as advertising links or as banners using various kinds of graphics. clicks on the icon or banner posted on the application are tracked by the third-party services listed below, and are shared with this website. for details of which data are collected, please refer to the privacy policy of each service. amazon affiliation (amazon) amazon affiliation is a commercial affiliation service provided by amazon.com inc. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. lead dyno (leaddyno, llc) lead dyno is a commercial affiliation service provided by leaddyno, llc. personal data collected: cookies, email address, first name, last name and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. idevaffiliate (idevdirect llc) idevaffiliate is a commercial affiliation service provided by idevdirect llc. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. shareasale (shareasale.com inc.) shareasale is a banner commercial affiliation service provided by shareasale.com inc. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. interaction with data collection platforms and other third parties this type of service allows users to interact with data collection platforms or other services directly from the pages of this website for the purpose of saving and reusing data. if one of these services is installed, it may collect browsing and usage data in the pages where it is installed, even if the users do not actively use the service. getsitecontrol promo widget (getwebcraft limited) getsitecontrol promo widget is a (lightbox) popup management service provided by getwebcraft limited. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: cyprus – privacy policy. getsitecontrol subscribe widget (getwebcraft limited) getsitecontrol subscribe widget is a (lightbox) popup management service provided by getwebcraft limited. personal data collected: cookies, email address and usage data. place of processing: cyprus – privacy policy. interaction with external social networks and platforms this type of service allows interaction with social networks or other external platforms directly from the pages of this website. the interaction and information obtained through this website are always subject to the user’s privacy settings for each social network. this type of service might still collect traffic data for the pages where the service is installed, even when users do not use it. it is recommended to log out from the respective services in order to make sure that the processed data on this website isn’t being connected back to the user’s profile. twitter tweet button and social widgets (twitter, inc.) the twitter tweet button and social widgets are services allowing interaction with the twitter social network provided by twitter, inc. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. privacy shield participant. pinterest “pin it” button and social widgets (pinterest) the pinterest “pin it” button and social widgets are services allowing interaction with the pinterest platform provided by pinterest inc. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. linkedin button and social widgets (linkedin corporation) the linkedin button and social widgets are services allowing interaction with the linkedin social network provided by linkedin corporation. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. google+ +1 button and social widgets (google inc.) the google+ +1 button and social widgets are services allowing interaction with the google+ social network provided by google inc. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. privacy shield participant. facebook like button and social widgets (facebook, inc.) the facebook like button and social widgets are services allowing interaction with the facebook social network provided by facebook, inc. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. privacy shield participant. interaction with live chat platforms this type of service allows users to interact with third-party live chat platforms directly from the pages of this website, for contacting and being contacted by this website support service. if one of these services is installed, it may collect browsing and usage data in the pages where it is installed, even if the users do not actively use the service. moreover, live chat conversations may be logged. getsitecontrol chat widget (getwebcraft limited) the getsitecontrol chat widget is a service for interacting with the getsitecontrol live chat platform provided by getwebcraft limited. personal data collected: cookies, data communicated while using the service and usage data. place of processing: cyprus – privacy policy. remarketing and behavioral targeting this type of service allows this website and its partners to inform, optimize and serve advertising based on past use of this website by the user. this activity is performed by tracking usage data and by using cookies, information that is transferred to the partners that manage the remarketing and behavioral targeting activity. in addition to any opt out offered by any of the services below, the user may opt out of a third-party service's use of cookies by visiting the network advertising initiative opt-out page. facebook custom audience (facebook, inc.) facebook custom audience is a remarketing and behavioral targeting service provided by facebook, inc. that connects the activity of this website with the facebook advertising network. personal data collected: cookies and email address. place of processing: united states – privacy policy – opt out. privacy shield participant. facebook remarketing (facebook, inc.) facebook remarketing is a remarketing and behavioral targeting service provided by facebook, inc. that connects the activity of this website with the facebook advertising network. personal data collected: cookies and usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy – opt out. privacy shield participant. how to provide or withdraw consent to the installation of cookies in addition to what is specified in this document, the user can manage preferences for cookies directly from within their own browser and prevent – for example – third parties from installing cookies. through browser preferences, it is also possible to delete cookies installed in the past, including the cookies that may have saved the initial consent for the installation of cookies by this website. users can, for example, find information about how to manage cookies in the most commonly used browsers at the following addresses: google chrome, mozilla firefox, apple safari and microsoft internet explorer. with regard to cookies installed by third parties, users can manage their preferences and withdrawal of their consent by clicking the related opt-out link (if provided), by using the means provided in the third party's privacy policy, or by contacting the third party. notwithstanding the above, users are hereby informed that they may follow the instructions provided by youronlinechoices (eu), the network advertising initiative (us) and the digital advertising alliance (us), daac (canada), ddai (japan) or other similar services. such initiatives allow users to select their tracking preferences for most of the advertising tools. the owner thus recommends that users make use of these resources in addition to the information provided in this document. owner and data controller jamie spencer owner contact email: hello@makeawebsitehub.com since the installation of third-party cookies and other tracking systems through the services used within this website cannot be technically controlled by the owner, any specific references to cookies and tracking systems installed by third parties are to be considered indicative. in order to obtain complete information, the user is kindly requested to consult the privacy policy for the respective third-party services listed in this document. given the objective complexity surrounding the identification of technologies based on cookies, users are encouraged to contact the owner should they wish to receive any further information on the use of cookies by this website. definitions and legal references personal data (or data) any information that directly, indirectly, or in connection with other information — including a personal identification number — allows for the identification or identifiability of a natural person. usage data information collected automatically through this website (or third-party services employed in this website), which can include: the ip addresses or domain names of the computers utilized by the users who use this website, the uri addresses (uniform resource identifier), the time of the request, the method utilized to submit the request to the server, the size of the file received in response, the numerical code indicating the status of the server's answer (successful outcome, error, etc.), the country of origin, the features of the browser and the operating system utilized by the user, the various time details per visit (e.g., the time spent on each page within the application) and the details about the path followed within the application with special reference to the sequence of pages visited, and other parameters about the device operating system and/or the user's it environment. user the individual using this website who, unless otherwise specified, coincides with the data subject. data subject the natural person to whom the personal data refers. data processor (or data supervisor) the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which processes personal data on behalf of the controller, as described in this privacy policy. data controller (or owner) the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data, including the security measures concerning the operation and use of this website. the data controller, unless otherwise specified, is the owner of this website. this website (or this application) the means by which the personal data of the user is collected and processed. service the service provided by this website as described in the relative terms (if available) and on this site/application. european union (or eu) unless otherwise specified, all references made within this document to the european union include all current member states to the european union and the european economic area. cookies small sets of data stored in the user's device. legal information this privacy statement has been prepared based on provisions of multiple legislations, including art. 13/14 of regulation (eu) 2016/679 (general data protection regulation). this privacy policy relates solely to this website, if not stated otherwise within this document. latest update: may 24, 2018 iubenda hosts this content and only collects the personal data strictly necessary for it to be provided. show the complete privacy policy