about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ lemony green pasta with peas & ricotta march 12, 2020 37 comments spring is here! it switched on like a light bulb about a week ago in kansas city. the daffodils are on their way up, the birds are chirping, and cookie and i are thrilled. i’m literally humming, “the hills are alive,” on our walks around the neighborhood. today, i wanted to share a shockingly green pasta dish with you. it’s easy to make, nourishing and comforting, which is exactly what we need right now. i wouldn’t blame you if you find the color off-putting, but i promise it’s so tasty! the cool thing about this dish is that we use the same pot of water to cook the kale (including the kale stems), pasta and peas. you’ll need to set a few timers. it’s not complicated, but maybe wait to pour another glass of wine until you’re sitting down to eat. once it all comes together, this dish almost tastes like deconstructed ravioli. it’s bright green and punctuated with tender peas and creamy ricotta. make some for dinner tonight? continue to the recipe » broccoli cheese soup march 5, 2020 74 comments it’s about time you met this broccoli cheddar soup recipe. it’s rich and indulgent, but not so much that it weighs me down. my husband declared it the best he’s ever had, and started throwing out one-liners in between spoonfuls: “it’s the velvet of the soup world.” “all the sin without any of the guilt.” “this may be the universe’s best delivery system for broccoli.” “it’s like a warm blanket after being outside on a long winter day.” i tried to make a great broccoli soup six months ago. i gave up after several failed attempts, and recently tried again after discovering sarah jampel’s method in bon appétit. thank you for showing me the way, sarah. i have high standards for broccoli cheese soup. i wanted soup that met the following qualifications: sufficiently green and full of fresh flavor cheesy! luxuriously smooth but with some texture from tender florets preferably free of flour and heavy cream i wanted all that, and i didn’t want to feel like i was eating a bowl of queso (don’t get me wrong, sometimes that’s exactly what i want to eat). this recipe checks all the boxes! continue to the recipe » what to cook this march march 1, 2020 84 comments can you believe it? we made it to march. asparagus is on its way and we’ll finally have more fresh fruits and vegetables to work with this month. i’m working on colorful spring recipes for you, and playing with some interesting new cooking techniques. we’ll see which ones are worth sharing! for now, you can browse in-season recipes below. links lately: you have to listen to this podcast with brené brown—on striving versus self-acceptance, saving marriages, and more this glass water filter pitcher is my new favorite thing (affiliate link) maybe you should talk to someone—a fun and insightful book is natural wine better for the planet? 5 simple ways to remind people that you love them diy vanilla extract is a waste of time and money, according to stella parks professional kitchen organization, one year later asparagus thai green curry with spring vegetables easily gluten free and vegan “i made this for dinner tonight and it was the best green curry i have ever had, better than our favorite restaurant where we get it. so thankful i found this recipe so i can make it at home. thanks so much for sharing, it was absolutely delicious!!!” – ashley more asparagus recipes » show me the fruit and vegetables » 29 healthy comfort food recipes february 24, 2020 70 comments we enjoyed a warm and sunny weekend here in kansas city, but we’re expecting more snow tomorrow. so, i’m sharing some veggie-packed comfort food recipes to help carry us through to springtime. i find that the most enjoyable way to eat well during short winter days is to focus on loading up on vegetables, rather than denying myself the cheesy, carb-heavy meals that i’m craving. here are 29 delicious dinners that are lightened up with fresh and nutritious ingredients. sneaky! want to add a side salad to any of the following? for the meals with an asian spin, try my carrot-ginger dressing. for the others, try my green goddess dressing, creamy sunshine (honey mustard) dressing or perhaps a simple vinaigrette. 1) black bean sweet potato enchiladas “yet another winner! my husband said, why do we even ever eat meat when vegetarian tastes like this?” – karen show me more recipes » easy green goddess dressing february 22, 2020 37 comments this green goddess dressing is exactly what we need right now. it’s creamy, tangy, and fully loaded with fresh, herbal flavor. i’ve savored it by the spoonful while imagining sunny days ahead. the green goddess is going to carry us through to spring. we’re going to make it. i can feel it. i put some soup recipe development on hold when i finalized this dressing. i’ll figure it out soon enough (hint: it’s also green). i’m too busy drizzling this versatile dressing over anything and everything. the funny thing about this green goddess dressing recipe is that it’s so very simple. i tried adding lemon juice and olive oil, and they only distracted from the beautiful combination of good greek yogurt and fresh herbs. in fact, you can use any combination of fresh herbs for this recipe. that leftover parsley and cilantro in the fridge? let’s use ’em up. continue to the recipe » how to cook perfect wild rice february 18, 2020 14 comments let’s talk about wild rice. it’s nutty and earthy, irresistibly chewy-tender, and i can’t get enough of it. what is it, exactly? wild rice is an aquatic grass native to the great lakes region of north america. don’t save your wild rice for your thanksgiving stuffing—it’s great year-round, but perhaps especially wonderful during the cooler months. wild rice offers a warm, hearty component that turns fresh greens into a proper meal, and adds texture and heft to soups. wild rice is nutritious, too. it offers about fifty percent more fiber and protein than its cousin brown rice, which puts it on par with quinoa. it’s a suitable gluten-free substitute for farro, since the two are similar in texture. wild rice has one less-than-fortunate quality: it’s more expensive than many other whole grains. wild rice is quite labor-intensive to harvest, which is why it’s pricy. shop around and store your rice in a cool, dry location. read on to learn how to cook your wild rice, plus find ideas to use up every bit of it! continue to the recipe » ↢ newer previous page older ↣ next page hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » winter recipes best stuffed shells how to roast garlic best vegan lasagna perfect roasted sweet potatoes creamy roasted carrot soup stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}