skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about cookie policy share tweet pin this is the cookie policy for skint dad, accessible from https://skintdad.co.uk we respect your privacy and are committed to protecting it. we recommend you read our privacy policy which shows what personal information we collect from you and how it is used. what are cookies? as is common practice with almost all websites this site uses cookies, which are tiny files that can be stored on your computer, to improve your experience. cookies are harmless, provide no information about you, cannot contain viruses and do not install spyware or malware on your computer. this page describes what information they gather, how we use it and why we sometimes need to store these cookies. we will also share how you can prevent these cookies from being stored however this may downgrade or ‘break’ certain elements of the site’s functionality. for more general information on cookies see http://www.allaboutcookies.org/ how we use cookies we use cookies for a variety of reasons. we may use session cookies, which expire when you close your browser, and persistent cookies, which stay on your browser until deleted. we also use traffic log cookies to see which pages are being used, which helps us improve our website. we only use this for statistical analysis and then the data is removed from the system. we use cookies to improve your experience of using the website and tailoring operations to your needs, likes and dislikes by gathering and remembering information about your preferences. we also work with third-parties to provide services through the website and they may set a cookie on your computer to remember your preferences or remember you. unfortunately, in most cases, there are no industry standard options for disabling cookies without completely disabling the functionality and features they add to this site. it is recommended that you leave on all cookies if you are not sure whether you need them or not in case they are used to provide a service that you use. cookies we use these are the types of cookies we use on skint dad: essential cookies we use several cookies that are important in making the site function as it should. they enable you to move around the website and use its features. these cookies are strictly necessary and without these, the website will not work properly, and you may not be able to use it. we also use cookies to detect if you are viewing from a mobile device so that we can show the best version of the site. preference cookies these are used to recognise you when you return to our website. this enables us to personalise our content for you and remember your preferences. these cookies may be used to gather certain information about you, including details of your ip address, location, operating system and browser version. these cookies don’t collect information that identifies you. all information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. it is only used to improve how the website works. we also use third party analytics sites, like google analytics, which is one of the most widespread and trusted analytics solutions on the web for helping us to analyse site performance. these sites may set third-party cookies on your computer. google analytics – we use google analytics to collect data about website usage. this data does not include personally identifiable information. you can view the google privacy policy here https://policies.google.com/privacy functionality cookies these cookies allow the website to remember choices you make (such as your language or if you have subscribed to the newsletter) and provide enhanced, more personal features. these cookies can also be used to remember changes you have made to text size, fonts and other parts of web pages that you can customise. they may also be used to provide services you have asked for such as watching a video or commenting on a blog post. the information these cookies collect may be anonymised and they cannot track your browsing activity on other websites. third party advertising cookies in some special cases, we also use cookies provided by trusted third parties. some of these trusted third-party cookies help deliver adverts more relevant to you and your interests and offset the costs of running this site. they are also used to limit the number of times you see an advertisement as well as help measure the effectiveness of the advertising campaign. we also include links to social media networks such as facebook, twitter, instagram and youtube that allow you to connect with the network in various ways. they will set cookies through our site and they may use your information about your interactions for various purposes outlined in their own privacy policies. from time to time we test new features and make subtle changes to the way that the site is delivered. when we are still testing new features, these cookies may be used to ensure that you receive a consistent experience whilst on the site whilst ensuring we understand which optimisations our users appreciate the most. managing cookies each cookie has an expiry date, this may be after your session or for longer. internet browsers usually enable cookies automatically within their settings. you can block cookies by changing the settings on your browser. be aware that disabling cookies will affect the functionality of this and many other websites that you visit. disabling cookies will usually result in also disabling certain functionality and features of this site. therefore, it is recommended that you do not disable cookies. to manage cookies in your internet browser, see: cookie settings in internet explorer cookie settings in firefox cookie settings in chrome cookie settings in safari for more information and to opt out of advertising cookies you can also visit your online choices http://www.youronlinechoices.com/uk/your-ad-choices. for google analytics cookies, you can stop google from collecting your information by downloading and installing the google analytics opt-out browser add-on: https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout. more information hopefully, that has clarified things for you and, as was previously mentioned, if there is something that you aren’t sure about it’s usually safer to leave cookies enabled in case it does interact with one of the features you use on our site. however, if you are still looking for more information, you can email us at [email protected] contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about