skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more cookie policy welcome to the smartpassiveincome.com cookie policy. this cookie policy details information you need to know regarding our cookie practices. what are cookies? cookies are tiny files that are downloaded to your computer to track particular aspects of your activity online to help us learn certain things about our website. this page describes what information they gather, how we use it and why we sometimes need to store these cookies. we will also share how you can prevent these cookies from being stored however this may downgrade or ‘break’ particular elements of the site’s functionality. you may see a list of all cookies used on this site at the bottom of the page. disabling cookies you can prevent the setting of cookies by adjusting the settings on your browser (see your browser help for how to do this) or by manually selecting which cookies you prefer on the pop-up that appears when you first visit the site. you can also opt out of tracking by many companies using cookies via the network advertising initiative consumer opt-out. our cookies email education-related cookies this site offers email subscription services providing you information and education on aspects of growing a business online and cookies may be used to remember if you are already registered and whether to show particular notifications which might only be valid to subscribed/unsubscribed users. forms-related cookies when you submit data to through a form such as those found on contact pages or comment forms, cookies may be set to remember your user details for future correspondence. third party cookies in some special cases, we also use cookies provided by trusted third parties. the following section details which third party cookies you might encounter through this site. orders-processing related cookies you can purchase items such as courses and the purchases often appear to be occurring on smartpassiveincome.com. in reality, we use third-party platforms and processors, and these companies will often use cookies so we can track sales, etc. account and login related cookies with particular products or services we offer, we may provide you with an account and login details. if so, the third party platform we use will often employ cookies to make login easy, and so we can identify you as a paying customer. statistics this site uses google analytics which is one of the most widespread and trusted analytics solutions on the web for helping us to understand how you use the site and ways that we can improve your experience. these cookies may track things such as how long you spend on the site and the pages that you visit so we can continue to produce engaging content. we also use third party analytics to track and measure usage of this site so that we can continue to produce engaging content. these cookies may track things such as how long you spend on the site or pages you visit which helps us to understand how we can improve the site for you. as we sell products, it’s important for us to understand statistics about how many of the visitors to our site make a purchase and this is the kind of data that these cookies will track. this is important to you as it means that we can accurately make business predictions that allow us to monitor our advertising and product costs to ensure the best possible price. we also use social media buttons and plugins on this site that allow you to connect with your social network in various ways. for these to work the following social media sites including, facebook instagram, twitter, snapchat, and youtube, will set cookies through our site which may be used to enhance your profile on their site or contribute to the data they hold for various purposes outlined in their respective privacy policies. more information hopefully, our cookie policy has clarified things for you. if there is something that you aren’t sure whether you need or not it’s usually safer to leave cookies enabled in case it does interact with one of the features you use on our site. if you have questions, you can reach us using the contact form above. list of cookies want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less