about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ food storage tips (make your food last longer) march 26, 2020 19 comments if you’re struggling to find recipes that suit your supplies right now, i’m right there with you. grocery supplies in kansas city are wacky this week. i got a good laugh on monday, when the automated whole foods delivery system suggested frozen french fries as a substitute for sun-dried tomatoes. while we’re all trying to make the most of what we have at home, i thought i’d share my best tips on how to preserve your ingredients. i hope this post offers a few useful tips that you can carry into easier times. here’s what you’ll find in this post: general food storage guidelines greens & herbs fresh fruits & vegetables bread & baked goods dairy & eggs nuts & whole grains throughout the sections, i’ve tried to offer suggestions throughout for when you have too much or not enough of something. lastly, please make use of my ingredient index or the search bar for any ingredient you want to use up, and check recipe comments for substitutions that have worked for other readers! we’re going to make it. show me more » honey butter cornbread march 24, 2020 24 comments got some cornmeal in the back of your pantry? great, let’s make cornbread! this cornbread recipe is my favorite. it’s made with browned butter, for maximum butter flavor, and it’s naturally sweetened with honey (maple syrup works, too). this cornbread is not exactly traditional. it’s sweetened, like northern cornbread, but it’s made in a skillet, like southern cornbread. i grew up near the border of the two regions, in oklahoma, and all i knew was my mom’s cornbread from the jiffy box. dinner was always more exciting with cornbread on the table. on the cornbread sweetness scale, this one falls somewhere around the middle, near jiffy levels. it’s not dessert-level sweet, nor is it dry. if you prefer sweeter cornbread, be sure to serve yours with honey or jam. this cornbread is golden and fluffy on the inside. i love to make it in my large cast iron skillet—it yields lightly crisp edges and keeps the cornbread warm for a long time. what’s better than warm, freshly made, homemade cornbread? preheat the oven to 375 and let’s get going! if you don’t have a skillet, i’ve got you covered. continue to the recipe » 20 diy pantry recipes (make your own marinara sauce & more) march 19, 2020 29 comments earlier this week, i shared 50 pantry-friendly savory recipes and a printable pantry ingredient checklist. i hope you’re finding them helpful. today, i thought i’d share recipes that are simple diy versions of building blocks we often grab at the store. you’ll find salsa, salad dressing, pancake mix and more—even homemade cold brew coffee. you may be accustomed to making these recipes already, but if not, i think you’ll become a convert. since these homemade options are freshly made from scratch, they taste much better than store-bought options! you’ll be surprised by how easy they are to make. i hope this post saves you a trip to the store. let me know what’s missing in the comments, and i’ll get to work on a recipe solution. savory essentials breakfasts & sweet treats a couple of snacks to get you through how to stretch your pantry (easy baking substitutions) savory essentials creamy homemade hummus if you haven’t made this hummus recipe yet, you have really been missing out. it’s creamy, dreamy, as good as your very favorite mediterranean restaurant’s. show me more » quick chana masala march 18, 2020 224 comments chana masala is one of my favorite menu items at indian restaurants. it’s a hearty, saucy chickpea and tomato dish with warming spices. i bet you have the ingredients to make this easy homemade version in your pantry already! i shared this recipe back in 2014, and wanted to revisit it as we’re all spending more time at home. i thoroughly enjoyed the fragrant 20 minutes i spent over the stove for this recipe. to make this chana masala, you’ll need onion, ginger, garlic, and several good-for-you spices, including coriander, cumin, and turmeric. garam masala is the traditional spice blend for chana masala, but if you don’t have that on hand, you’ll find alternatives below. i’d like to start cooking indian recipes more often. which one would you like to see next? for more pantry-friendly recipes, check my healthy pantry recipes roundup. continue to the recipe » 50 pantry-friendly recipes & substitutions that work march 17, 2020 28 comments there’s a lot going on right now, and we’ll get through it together. i asked on instagram what kind of content you’d like to see as we stay home to flatten the curve. many of you requested flexible pantry-friendly recipes. you’ll find a large selection below, and i’m working on more to share soon. at the bottom of this post, you’ll find guidance on common substitutions. now is a good time to flex our creative powers in the kitchen and make the most of what we have. it’s also a great time to take on new cooking techniques, like homemade pasta or ricotta! i created a printable pantry ingredient checklist. you can access it any time at cookieandkate.com/pantry. use it to review your pantry setup for what may or may not be missing. you can then keep your list near your computer when you’re reviewing recipes to make. i hope it’s helpful. this pantry resource is organized into sections: soups & stews pasta casseroles rice eggs beans & lentils substitutions that work don’t see what you’re looking for? try typing an ingredient into the search bar (it’s underneath the logo at the top of each page) or peruse my ingredient index. soups & stews all of these soups make great leftovers (up to five days) and freeze well for later. the only soups that might not freeze well are those that are full of cheese, milk or cream—none of these are. sometimes, soups with pasta soak up more liquid as they rest or reheat, but i have not had significant issues with this when i use quality pasta (look for labels that indicate the pasta was processed on bronze dies). if you’re out of fresh greens or the suggested garnishes, don’t worry. these soups will still be great without them. lentil soup homemade vegetarian chili chickpea noodle soup quinoa vegetable soup with kale pinto posole classic minestrone soup pasta e fagioli seriously good vegetable soup spicy black bean soup west african peanut soup view all soup recipes here. show me more » roasted garlic bread march 15, 2020 24 comments my grandma virginia makes the best garlic bread. it’s soft and buttery in the middle, irresistibly garlicky, and we all love it. amongst a family of picky kids, the garlic bread was always a winner. this garlic bread recipe brings back warm memories, although it’s quite a bit different. this bread is crisp and crusty with deep roasted garlic flavor. since roasted garlic is inherently buttery in flavor and texture, i was able to cut the amount of butter in half. i’ve had this recipe in my back pocket since sharing my tutorial on how to roast garlic. i second-guessed publishing it, since this recipe takes longer to make than your average garlic bread. on the other hand, it’s a simple, comforting side dish that goes well with many homemade meals. if you’re making some saucy pasta tonight, how about a side of garlic bread? i’m working hard on a pantry resource guide for you and will be back soon. continue to the recipe » older ↣ next page hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » winter recipes best stuffed shells how to roast garlic best vegan lasagna perfect roasted sweet potatoes creamy roasted carrot soup stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}