menu contact us breadcrumb cookies policy cookies policy cookies policy this cookies policy applies to the digital service linking to this cookies policy and forms part of the privacy notice, which describes our data handling practices and is available here. on the digital services, the hearst group of companies ('we', 'us', 'our' or 'hearst') and third parties, including our advertising- and marketing-related service providers and partners, use a variety of technologies including cookies ('cookies and similar technologies'). cookies and similar technologies vary depending on the digital services and include cookies, web beacons, tags, scripts, pixels, local shared objects (including html5 cookies) and software development kits ('sdks'). you can read more below about the types of cookies we use, why we use them and how you can exercise your choices regarding cookies and similar technologies. what are cookies and similar technologies? the digital services automatically log certain information about visits to the digital services using cookies and similar technologies, such as the number and frequency of visitors, technical information about browsers and devices used to access the digital services, and information about crashes or other technical issues. the cookies and similar technologies which log this information are necessary to allow the digital services to function. we and third parties may automatically collect certain information through cookies and similar technologies about your activities over time across the digital services as well as across third-party sites, apps or other media. cookies and similar technologies may be included in our web pages, mobile apps, emails, and other digital content. they may assign or collect unique cookie ids or other identifiers associated with your browser or device. they may collect information while you are using our digital services or while they are running in the background of your device. cookies and similar technologies on the digital services may be served directly by hearst (referred to as 'first-party cookies') or by others such as advertisers and data analytics companies (referred to as 'third-party cookies'). cookies and similar technologies are browser- and device-specific and may endure for different periods of time. some are deleted automatically once you close your browser or exit the digital service. these are sometimes referred to as 'session cookies'. other cookies are 'persistent cookies', meaning that they remain on your device after your browser is closed. which cookies do we use and why do we use them? our cookies dashboard provides information on the different categories of cookies and similar technologies that the digital services use, the companies that serve them and why we use them. the cookies dashboard is always available from our websites. if you have any questions about our use of cookies and similar technologies please contact us using the details provided in the 'contact us' section of our privacy notice. your choices, including opt-outs cookies and similar technologies help us, our service providers and business partners provide and customise the digital services. you have the right to choose whether or not to accept certain cookies and similar technologies. however, if you choose to refuse or remove cookies and similar technologies, this could affect the availability and functionality the digital services. please use the cookies dashboard to adjust your preferences. additionally, depending on how you access the digital services, you may exercise your choices through other channels as indicated below: website (browser) opt-out most browsers accept cookies by default. you may be able to change the settings to have your browser refuse certain cookies and similar technologies or notify you before accepting cookies. to do so, please follow the instructions provided by your browser which are usually located within the 'help', 'tools' or 'edit' facility. some third parties also provide the ability to refuse their cookies directly by clicking on an opt-out link and you should review the cookies policy of the relevant third party to find out more about their cookies. you can also follow the instructions provided by the european interactive digital advertising alliance ('edaa') here to opt-out of cookies from companies that have chosen to participate in the edaa’s opt-out scheme. mobile app opt-out to limit tracking for advertising purposes on your mobile device, you can review and adjust the settings provided by your device manufacturer, such as 'limit ad tracking' for ios or 'opt-out of interest-based ads' for android. please keep in mind that as the mobile environment continues to evolve, additional opt-out mechanisms or privacy settings may become available. we encourage you to review the information on opt-outs and settings that device manufacturers, technology companies and industry associations make available to you also. more information for further information about cookies and similar technologies and how to exercise your choices, please visit www.allaboutcookies.org and www.youronlinechoices.eu. contact us if you have any questions about our use of cookies, please contact us as described in the privacy notice. last updated: 24 may 2018 let's work together please get in touch using the form below to speak with a member of the hearst solutions team. select enquiry type general new business careers first name last name email phone company website --none-- master contact form media pack request campaign form budget none £500-£5000 £5000+ campaign --none-- mailchimp campaign: project body love hearst website: master contact form hearst website: media pack request hearst website: campaign response form women's health live | save the date love island women's health live | second invite women's health live | calendar invite + reminder digital spy pub quiz digital spy pub quiz | thank you runner's world packages agency ceos qp website relaunch newsletters the positivity post the beacon classifieds halloween campaign cover wrap packages email getting greener christmas red smart women week 2019 digital spy cosmo shoppable issue classifieds meet the editrs classifieds - health classifieds - fashion classifieds - home key contacts lists cover wraps 2 esquire townhouse sustainability - general contacts 
          https://www.hearst.co.uk/cookies-policy
        hearst uk will also email you about our products and services as detailed in our privacy notice. tick this box if you'd rather not receive these emails. solutions brands case studies the beacon about us media centre careers contact us terms & conditions privacy policy cookies policy advertiser terms complaints policy environmental policy modern slavery statement reports © hearst uk, the national magazine company ltd. registered in england number 112955 close solutions sectors brands the beacon case studies about us media centre careers contact us search