skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » tools » cool domain & blog name generators for your website 2019 cool domain & blog name generators for your website 2019 november 13, 2019 vishnu tools 2 comments looking to start a blog but can’t come up with a name for it? these blog name generators will help you to find a short and catchy name for your blog alongside domain name for it. a rose, by any other name, smells as sweet. really? that’s an old saying that no one buys anymore. in the commercial world today, a name is everything. it is your identity, both online and offline. for many companies, the brand name becomes the most important asset. think nike, google, apple, pepsi or kellogs. these names never existed before (okay, apple was there, but it is the variety that we bite on). they were coined, adopted and built into big and easily recognizable names. they have a tremendous brand value attached to them. so, when you start a blog, pay some attention to the name that you want it to go by. if you’re in the business of selling auto parts online, you don’t want to become famous and be known by the name ‘howtobakecookies’, right? what is the benchmark for a name for a blog or a website? no hard and fast rule, but a person who hears or sees it once ought to be able to return to the page without bookmarking it. the name may not start off being like that but must have the potential to become a recognizable brand. your online name should be catchy, roll off the tongue easily, good to say and good to hear. you should best avoid tongue twisters and mind puzzles. a shorter name is better, as it will be easy to remember. a shorter name is better also because you can avoid typos while typing urls. you do not want a visitor to land upon a 404 error page simply because your name was hard to spell. there are some who feel that a longer name containing more keywords works better for search engines, but this is debatable. a catchy name helps in brand building. it is easy to remember and easy to recall. users feel comfortable saying it and asking for it by name. you can place the names for blogs into two categories – those containing keywords, or those that are brandable. the one mentioned earlier here -‘howtobakecookies’ contains keywords. google is a brandable name – it is coined, made up, never existed before. now, which kind of name works for you depends a bit on your target audience. if your audience is persons who are fond of cookies or baking, the name ‘howtobakecookies’ may actually work for you and bring in traffic. this is because users will type in those very same words while searching for a site that will help them to bake. and search engines will find you more easily. but, while google may not have been searched for when it started off, it has built up brand recognition over time and almost anyone in the online world will recognize the name today. google is synonymous with search engines and much more. so, your intended audience pretty much decides whether your name should be keyword based or brandable. if you are in for the long haul, a brandable name may be better. of course, a name can be both – keyword-based and brandable. and that would be great. while picking a name, the topics you want to cover in your blog, the style of writing you are going to use, and what you intend to achieve should be kept in mind. if the language you are going to use is to be racy or funky or casual, there is no point in having a name that is formal and stiff and starchy. this would simply mislead the audience. if the blog is meant to be a kind of personal diary or travelogue, perhaps you can use your own name for the blog and stamp your style on it. it may work very well if the blog content is interesting. you can try various combinations – a keyword here, a made-up word there, your own name – mix and match till you come up with the right combination. if you are stumped in finding a name for your blog, you can try a few tools that are available. these are domain name suggestion tools and most of them work pretty well to come up with a number of names you may like. all these tools have some common features, they search for names based on any word that you input, including keywords. it can tell you what names are available and what names have been taken. they can help you buy the domain name and register it. take a look at some available blog name generator tools: nameboy – blog name generator nameboy is a cool name generator and domain searcher. based on the keywords you enter, it comes up with suitable names that you can use for your blog, website or company. you need to enter a primary description and an optional secondary description and checkboxes for hyphens and rhyme. if you find a name you like, you can login, put it onto a cart and save it for later domain registration. if you already own any domain names, you can add them to the cart as well and keep track of them. from the cart page, you can appraise domain names, buy them and protect them. if you create an account with nameboy, you can maintain a list of all your domains, wherever they have been registered. nameboy partners with hosting providers, isps, domain registration services and legal services to offer you a complete bouquet of services related to finding a name and registering it. it works with domain name registrars to get you the most favorable deals. bust a name bust a name is a tool that will help you to search for domain names and mange them. it uses linguistic data to scroll through tons of names and check out if they are available. on the domain maker page, you can enter the starting word of the domain and fill in other parameters like the number of characters and how the domain should sound. random domain names will be generated. you can pick the ones you like, check if they are available and save them for future use. this page will help you in your search for a brandable name. on the domain search page, you can enter a few words that you like and the tool will come up with all possible combinations. during the search process, you can add or subtract words. if there are words that you do not want in your name , you can eliminate them by dragging them away, and then fine-tune your search. the available domains are listed for you and you can mark any of them and keep track of them. if you like, you can go ahead and purchase the name from any of the registrars listed there. panabee you’ve got to describe your idea in two words and hit search in panabee and it will come up the list of available names based on the words. it can also make alternate suggestions derived from the words you keyed in to help you widen your search. panabee conducts the search across multiple platforms, so you know if the word you selected is available on facebook or twitter. it has an international reach and can help you register country based domains. name mesh name mesh works similar to the other tools. but is it a little different in that it slots names into categories like common, new, short, extra. it has an seo tab for names and here you can find names that are better as per seo norms. you can also refine your search to check availability on social platforms or by eliminating extensions that you do not need. godaddy is the only available registrar linked to this tool. instantdomains instantdomains is a fantastic platform for everything domain names-related. and if you are in the process of coming up with the best name for your new project or business idea, use instantdomains’ domain name generator and find all sorts of different ideas. these could be an inspiration or an actual name that you will use. what’s cool about instantdomains is the filtering functions it sports. you can choose between tons of different industries, like ecommerce, dog, music, nature, health, yoga, tattoo and more. also, if you are particularly interested in a specific extension, tick only the required one(s). last but not least, mark how many characters you would like your domain name to have, from two to twenty. for instance, if you type in “colorlib” and you set the characters counter at three, you get “colorlibhub.” lean domain search lean domain search is a search engine that helps you find the domain name you want in seconds. you just have to enter the word that you want included in your blog name and the search engine will pair it with other possible words to come up with a combination that is available for registration. it is free tool that is 95% accurate, but accuracy is expected to improve as unavailable names are rooted out with repeated searches. this tool is now owned by automattic inc, the people behind wordpress. wordoid wordoid is an online tool that will help you come up with nice sounding names. wordoids are coined words that sound great. it is an intelligent tool that is based on phonetics. the words that this tool comes up with will not be in the pages of any dictionary, and they will have the potential to become a nice name for a brand. make words in many languages using wordoid. you need to pick a language, and you can pick more than one to give your name a cosmopolitan feel. then, choose a keyword, and select the quality level you want. the name you choose can be short or long. wordoid will offer you a number of names with variants. you can check their domain availability before you use it for your blog. the tool is totally free. but, if you want to view your previous search history, or pin wordoids that you like so that you can revisit them later, then you will have to sign in. there is no need to create a separate account and you can sign in using facebook or google. instant domain search if you have a general idea for a name but still want to find different variations, use instant domain search. needless to say, after you type in the word and hit the search button, you instantly get tons of different combinations. in fact, you do not even need to hit the search button, as soon as you start typing in your word, suggestions appear right in front of your eyes. instant domain search shows both registered and available domain names. as for the former, it even provides a direct connection to the whois so you learn more about the owner (if the details are public). for a speedy solution to your main idea, instant domain search is a fantastic platform that delivers loads of variations that could possibly be a fit. namesmith namesmith is another excellent domain name generator that will surely help you come up with the best name for your objective. whether you use it just for inspiration or to actually find the name that you want to use, namesmith gets the job done easily. while you can type in up to five words that somewhat describe your idea, you can also just go with the random search and see what happens – as simple as that. let’s take the words “king,” “money,” “boss” and “opulence” as an example. what namesmith delivers are ideas such as “kingboss,” “kingglish,” “hormoney,” “kingthing” and “kyng” amongst many others. the platform even breaks name ideas down by exact keywords, blends, rhymes and pre-/suffixies, as well as modifications. if you are in need of some hot names, you better check out what namesmith has in store for you. namestation sometimes, you get a complete blank when you decide to pick a new name for your new project. to avoid the hassle, go with a domain name generator and save yourself time and energy. it does not necessarily mean that you should stick to the exact name that, for instance, namestation provides. you can use it to boost your creative thinking; however, sometimes, the name is so good, you want to stick to it and not overcomplicate. let namestation help you out on your journey to the domain name idea that matches your plan best. enter one or more keywords, choose the extension and generate names. you can include/exclude both related words and popular affixes. namestation also recommends other keyword ideas related to the one you provide. also, you can hide all the taken names so namestation displays only the ones that are readily available for you to go with. shopify’s business name generator shopify’s business name generator is something slightly different compared to all the other domain name generators you find on this list. first and foremost, it helps you find the name for your upcoming business. just enter your query and hit enter. the page opens a horde of different variations of business names that contain your specific query. if that means “boss,” shopify’s business name generator generates names like boss solo, boss pub, daily boss and extraordinary boss to name a few. have in mind, shopify’s business name generator is exclusive to the platform. that said, if you are interested in starting your own shopify store, but you still need to find a name, this is your best tool to come up with the page title that will spark everyone’s curiosity. 123finder.com 123finder provides professional name management services. it maintains an extensive database of names that you can use for your blog or business. it comes bundled with intuitive tools that can search the database for appropriate names. in the search function, you can put in the keywords and the tool will find names based on these keyword. you can limit your search based on the length of the words. you can bookmark your choice and you can click on a ‘?’ to find out who owns the name. you can also see trivia about domain names in here. for instance, you can keep track of the date on which a particular domain name expires. you can also access a list of incoming domain names here. moreover, you can find the registration data for any domain name or ip address in a jiffy. online generator at online generator, you can get a name for a bunch of purposes – business, domain, project, company or product. you can also find nicknames, fantasy names, superhero names, random names or fake names. if it is blog names you are looking for, you should head to the codename generator. this tool combines nouns, verbs and adjectives using random algorithms. as the names are generated in a random fashion, you will find names all kinds of names, some suitable and many that are not suitable. you will need to sift through them and find what you like. you simply need to keep hitting the button and browsing the list of generated names. also, you can save any name you like and straight away check it’s availability. you really should be able to find what you are looking for, as they claim to generate over 5 million names. domainr a search with domainr is not restricted to the .com., .org, or .net space. domainr allows you to search the entire domain space that includes more than 1700 top level domains. it also works closely with registrars and brokers to help you register the name that you come up with. domainr helps you check whether the name you have chosen is available for registration. it searches for every possible domain name based on your inputs, and will also suggest alternate available names. domains bot domains bot comes with the tagline that they convert ideas into names. the developers designed it for registrars and players in the domain industry. they claim that 8 out of the 10 world’s largest registrars use domains bot. it uses the name spinner technology to provide meaningful and relevant domain names. they source the data from a mix of publicly available records and a huge database of keywords collected and fine tuned over the years. it works in pretty much the same fashion as the other tools. you have to make your keyword choice and the tool will come up with any number of suggestions. you can add prefixes or suffixes to your search criteria. the suggestions will increase the chances of conversion into registrations. for the registrars and others who display domains bot on their site, it means that a user is converted into a customer. you can also add a jquery plugin to your site to integrate domains bot to it. you need to copy and paste a snippet, and if you wish, customize it with a little css. domains bot is a paid service and there are many plans based on the search volume. the starting price is $19.95 per month, running up to $199.95 per month. this site also displays a list of registrars with the prices charged by them. dot-o-mator dot-o-mator is a simple tool that gives you tips on how to name your blog. you can pick a beginning word and an ending word and click on combine to see the suggestions that the tool comes up with. you can even pick words from the drop-down suggestions in the boxes. if you like a name, you can save it to the scratch board or even search for its availability. dyyo dyyo is another simple tool that helps you to search for 4 letter names. you can type in all the 4 letters individually and click on search to check out the various combinations it comes up with. you can also type in the letters that you do not want included in the overall letters box. this tool can be helpful if you want to keep the name of your blog short. domain it a quick search feature is available in domain it and it will tell you if the name is available or not. the name i typed in was not available in the .com space, but it suggested a number of other popular domains which i may have not thought of. and i could straight away add the available names to cart. you can also search for names based on keyword input, and refine it with parameters like inclusion of hyphens and number or length of words. as an icann accredited registrar, they claim to offer rates that are significantly less than the competitors. they offer allied services like web hosting and custom email. the developers also offer url forwarding, which means that if you have multiple domain names, you can get them all to point to the same website. if you don’t want to publicize your domain ownership details, you can avail of their whois privacy services. there are many more name suggestion tools available, and in case you want to look beyond the ones discussed above, you can try any of these, free domain name generator is a simple tool where you simply enter your keyword, choose the prefixes and suffixes that you want, and hit go. as a next step, you can check the generated names for availability. this tool usually appraises the suggested names for suitability. a fast domain search tool, domain typer helps you find country domains and generic domains. you can also check the page rank of any website by simply typing in the url of that website. domize works in a similar fashion to the other name search tools. it comes with a power search feature that allows bulk search of lists and combinations of words. impossibility searches for domain names based on a combination of words to show you the list of unregistered .com names, based on your combination. they use multiple servers in parallel to speed up the search. with spinxo, you can just click on the spin button and watch it generate random names. if you feed in keywords, you will get more customized names. you can find names for social media also and you can check the availability of names for twitter, facebook, skype and tumblr. you can also check out my blog name generator, which works in much the same fashion. moreover, you can add common prefixes and suffixes to widen the search. and finally finding the right name for your blog right at the very start is essential. also, you now have many handy blog name generators at your disposal, and you are sure to find the name you like using any one of them. if anything worked well for you, or if you have any other tool that you find useful, do share it here. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. blog name generatorsblog nameswebsite nameswordpress blog names share this share tweet pin it share vishnu vishnu is a freelance writer by night, works as a data analyst by day. related posts 17 social media banners to improve your web presence 2017 having a solid collection of social media banners comes very helpful regarding your online presence.… top 10 web form makers for creating online forms 2019 web forms are everywhere. the google search box is an example of one. the contact… top 23 resources for free stock video footage 2019 video editors, content creators, designers, and other creative artists can oftentimes find themselves in a… top 26 free node.js frameworks for web developers 2019 in the realm of web development, node.js is very likely to be the most widely… top 12 free invoice tools for small businesses and freelancers starting your own self-employed venture is going to require learning a little bit more about… the 23 best css3 books for front-end developers want to become a web designer? great! now you need some css3 books to start.… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 11 community resources for angular developers to improve your skills 2019 next post: top 17 platforms for selling digital & downloadable products 2019 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×