skip to content cooler on the internet ramblings on community, gaming, and whatever else i find interesting. menu home blogs welcome! welcome! thanks for stopping by this little nook. my name is janice, online (where i am way cooler) i go by the handle ‘tea’ which developed from my selected gaming moniker ‘vanitea’. if that sentence wasn’t enough to make it obvious – i’m a passionate gamer. this is an important part of my identity that i’ve embraced even though i might not be the in the standard demographic. professionally, i’m in the field of digital community management. i’ve spent the last 15 years developing my business, communication, marketing, and a social science skills in order to help enterprise businesses understand their most valuable audience – the consumer. i founded and grew a beauty and cosmetics focused community with over 100,000 members and 1.2 million contributions – all completely organic for 12 years before (finally) figuring out this was not just a passion – it was the start of my life’s work in this space. i’ve helped brands and business grow their online communities professionally for the past 4 years. i am a khoros (fka lithium) certified community manager and i hold an advanced administrator certification for spinklr. i am obsessed with helping brands understand the value of community as a center of excellence within their brand and building out the strategy for community programs that help optimize operational efficiencies and democratize organization data. this is a primarily a personal space where i can share blogs based on my interests. blogs and posts here do not represent the views of my employer. if you’re interested in instant pot recipes, gaming and streaming ramblings, and the occasional community focused insight – take a click through to the blogs! if you have any feedback for me take a couple minutes to reach out. i’d love to hear from you. name(required) email(required) website message submit leave a reply cancel reply enter your comment here... fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: email (address never made public) name website you are commenting using your wordpress.com account. ( log out / change ) you are commenting using your google account. ( log out / change ) you are commenting using your twitter account. ( log out / change ) you are commenting using your facebook account. ( log out / change ) cancel connecting to %s notify me of new comments via email. notify me of new posts via email. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. tea talks being a community professional in 2019 late to the party on the topic of doing what you love welcome back, monday! tired af tea on instagram sunday 🌞 preen sesh #parrotletsofinstagram #cockatiel little bluebell, gris. #parrotlet #parrotletsofinstagram marked one off of magnus bucket list. #dogmom tea on twittermy tweets tea on goodreads blog at wordpress.com.