rainmaker.fm is brought to you by discover why more than 80,000 companies in 135 countries choose wp engine for managed wordpress hosting. start getting more from your site today! rainmaker.fm the digital commerce and content marketing podcast network home shows hosts about home shows hosts about member area log in menu log in free training hosted by darrell vesterfelt and tim stoddart copyblogger fm: content marketing, copywriting, freelance writing, and social media marketing copyblogger fm is a weekly, short-form broadcast hosted by darrell vesterfelt and tim stoddart. each week, she and a cast of rotating experts analyze the week in content marketing, copywriting, email marketing, conversion optimization, mindset, and much more. subscribe by rss subscribe in itunes new episodes featured episodes loading... march 15, 2020 how to write content that resonates copyblogger’s editor-in-chief, stefanie flaxman, joined host darrell vesterfelt this week to talk about translating the traffic that comes to your website and how to create compelling content to keep them there. … listen to episode march 9, 2020 how to conquer your fear of selling, with leah neaderthal the founder of smart gets paid and sales coach for women entrepreneurs, leah neaderthal, joined host darrell vesterfelt this week to talk about strategies to “… master business development and land higher-paying consulting clients.” … listen to episode march 2, 2020 how to build remarkable products to grow your business, with ramit sethi this week on the copyblogger podcast, tim stoddart had the opportunity to speak with entrepreneur, new york times bestselling author, and founder of iwillteachyoutoberich.com, ramit sethi. … listen to episode february 17, 2020 what you should talk about on your podcast, with tara mcmullin welcome back to the copyblogger podcast, and this week darrell vesterfelt speaks with podcasting expert tara mcmullin about the ins and outs of podcast production for content marketers. … listen to episode february 9, 2020 how to win at search in 2020 this week, copyblogger partners darrell vesterfelt and tim stoddart returned to talk about the importance and opportunities of seo for today’s content marketers. … listen to episode february 3, 2020 how to turn pro as a freelance writer darrell had the opportunity to interview guest ed gandia — from high-income business writing — on what it takes to go pro as a freelancer. … listen to episode january 27, 2020 marketing segmentation and personalization with brennan dunn of rightmessage darrell interviews brennan dunn, the founder of the popular online course double your freelancing rate, and the software rightmessage. … listen to episode january 20, 2020 podcasting still matters, with pat flynn from smart passive income in this episode, darrell talks with pat flynn from smart passive income about why it’s not too late to start a podcast, and why it’s one of his favorite content marketing platforms. … listen to episode january 13, 2020 the new look copyblogger in 2020 copyblogger partners darrell vesterfelt and tim stoddart use this episode to talk more specifically about the new content marketing plan for 2020. … listen to episode january 8, 2020 new year, new copyblogger in this episode, darrell and brian share about a new change to copyblogger media, and expose some of their exciting plans for the future of copyblogger in 2020! … listen to episode october 23, 2019 the self-reliant entrepreneur with john jantsch in this episode, darrell talks to john jantsch — the founder of duct tape marketing — about his new book titled the self-reliant entrepreneur. … listen to episode october 2, 2019 consistency will take you further in this episode, darrell talks with matt ragland, the director of customer success for podia. … listen to episode september 25, 2019 the past, present, and future of online learning in this episode, brian clark and darrell vesterfelt talk about the past, present, and future of online education. … listen to episode september 16, 2019 how to get more of the right things done productivity coach charlie gilkey talks about going from ideas to completed projects — and how to take a more balanced approach to getting it all done. … listen to episode september 9, 2019 why the future is still email in this episode brian clark and darrell vesterfelt dive deep into the topic of email. … listen to episode september 3, 2019 what’s next for copyblogger media? in this episode, brian clark hosts the copyblogger fm podcast for the first time, and reveals — among other things — why he’s returning to copyblogger and aiming to reinvent it along with new partner darrell vesterfelt. … listen to episode august 26, 2019 how smart, nimble companies are using webinars today copywriter and webinar strategist beth hayden talks about some of the most effective ways companies are using webinars. … listen to episode august 19, 2019 the clarity method: a conversation with tim brownson tim brownson talks about how we can use our values to design our businesses and make wiser decisions. … listen to episode 1 2 3 … 16 next page » january 13, 2020 the new look copyblogger in 2020 copyblogger partners darrell vesterfelt and tim stoddart use this episode to talk more specifically about the new content marketing plan for 2020. … listen to episode january 8, 2020 new year, new copyblogger in this episode, darrell and brian share about a new change to copyblogger media, and expose some of their exciting plans for the future of copyblogger in 2020! … listen to episode october 23, 2019 the self-reliant entrepreneur with john jantsch in this episode, darrell talks to john jantsch — the founder of duct tape marketing — about his new book titled the self-reliant entrepreneur. … listen to episode october 2, 2019 consistency will take you further in this episode, darrell talks with matt ragland, the director of customer success for podia. … listen to episode september 25, 2019 the past, present, and future of online learning in this episode, brian clark and darrell vesterfelt talk about the past, present, and future of online education. … listen to episode september 16, 2019 how to get more of the right things done productivity coach charlie gilkey talks about going from ideas to completed projects — and how to take a more balanced approach to getting it all done. … listen to episode september 9, 2019 why the future is still email in this episode brian clark and darrell vesterfelt dive deep into the topic of email. … listen to episode september 3, 2019 what’s next for copyblogger media? in this episode, brian clark hosts the copyblogger fm podcast for the first time, and reveals — among other things — why he’s returning to copyblogger and aiming to reinvent it along with new partner darrell vesterfelt. … listen to episode august 26, 2019 how smart, nimble companies are using webinars today copywriter and webinar strategist beth hayden talks about some of the most effective ways companies are using webinars. … listen to episode august 19, 2019 the clarity method: a conversation with tim brownson tim brownson talks about how we can use our values to design our businesses and make wiser decisions. … listen to episode august 12, 2019 digital business trends and the latest on the rainmaker platform challenges and opportunities for content-driven business in 2019 and beyond … and a new look at a content marketing platform. … listen to episode august 5, 2019 4 ‘naive’ business principles for enduring success ever been told you’re “too nice” to run a business? yeah, i’m gonna call bs on that. … listen to episode july 8, 2019 how to write an epic blog post, part 3: polishing and promotion part three of our series: how to polish and promote an epic blog post or other piece of remarkable content. … listen to episode july 1, 2019 how to write an epic blog post, part 2: getting it written part two of our series: how to write an epic blog post or other piece of remarkable content. … listen to episode june 24, 2019 how to write an epic blog post, part 1: thinking and research new series! part one: how to prepare to write an epic blog post or other piece of remarkable content. … listen to episode june 17, 2019 3 almost magical headline ingredients for more traffic, engagement, and shares want to do a little bit of work and see really good results with your content? make some time to learn about crafting great headlines. … listen to episode june 10, 2019 lessons any business can learn from an impressive influencer marketing fail has the “influencer bubble” really burst? maybe, but … probably not … listen to episode june 3, 2019 13 ways of looking at a headline having a hard time coming up with headline ideas? here are 13 tweaks, prompts, and hacks to keep you moving. … listen to episode may 27, 2019 the 7 ‘bad’ habits of incredibly successful people it turns out those successful people you admire aren’t always so perfect. … listen to episode may 20, 2019 writers: how to move from making a living to driving revenue are you writing for a paycheck … or to create revenue for your organization? … listen to episode may 13, 2019 choose the right frame to boost the power of your content looking to create a much greater impact with your content? start by understanding how it’s framed. … listen to episode may 6, 2019 how copywriting teacher belinda weaver reenergized her email list for massive engagement some advice from rainmaker digital services spun copywriter and teacher belinda weaver into a surprising new direction with her content. … listen to episode april 29, 2019 3 reasons why really good writers sometimes can’t find great clients three ways that good writers can find the great clients they deserve. … listen to episode april 22, 2019 3 slightly embarrassing emotions that drive effective copywriting speaking to your prospects’ emotional brains isn’t manipulative — it’s just good communication. … listen to episode april 15, 2019 get 10 content marketing boosters in 20 minutes “document your content marketing strategy” can sound about as exciting as “buy new socks.” … listen to episode april 8, 2019 becoming the ‘chief empathy officer’ of your copy and content the lines between content and copywriting, and why you want to make yourself the “chief empathy officer” for your audience. … listen to episode april 1, 2019 one of the most important marketing decisions you’ll ever make while no single tactic is a “magic bullet” for your content marketing, this one comes pretty close. … listen to episode march 18, 2019 what nobody wants to hear about content marketing the key to marketing success isn’t the latest shiny tactic. it’s making sure that your tactics are resting on solid strategy. … listen to episode march 11, 2019 getting your big, scary projects finished: a conversation about growing gills a look into why it’s so hard to move forward with creative work … listen to episode march 4, 2019 when is it time to bring in a professional copywriter? is it better to do all of your own copywriting and content marketing, or to bring in a pro? … listen to episode february 25, 2019 using content to systematically move prospects toward a purchase prospects need to be at the right stage of awareness before they can move forward with a purchase. and content marketing is a superb way to get them there. … listen to episode february 18, 2019 understanding the lifecycles of your website, with pamela wilson there’s a huge volume of content marketing advice out there — but most of it only applies to certain sites. pamela wilson joins us to talk about “content lifecyles” of websites, and how to know precisely what to focus on for your site, depending on where you are today. … listen to episode february 11, 2019 5 ways to manage a stress-induced creative slump stressed out? anxious? just out of sorts? stress can wreck havoc with your creative productivity. here are some thoughts on how to manage it. … listen to episode february 4, 2019 3 ways strategic content can drive measurable business outcomes creating excellent content is expensive — in time, money, or both. make sure your content marketing strategy is driving real business results. … listen to episode january 28, 2019 the social media platform every content creator should be using in 2019 (nope, it’s not facebook) think you know what linkedin is all about? today’s conversation with amber naslund may get you seeing the platform in a new way. … listen to episode january 21, 2019 real talk about generating high-quality content thoughts on how to create really good content … without a huge team or an unlimited budget … listen to episode january 14, 2019 a conversation with paul jarvis about staying a ‘company of one’ we often take it as a given that businesses should always grow — but is that really true? … listen to episode october 29, 2018 the 3 plus 1 foundational elements of effective persuasion the foundation you choose for your persuasive copy can make all the difference. … listen to episode october 22, 2018 5 essential copywriting techniques from copyblogger if marketing or content strategy plays any role in your professional life, you need to understand copywriting. here are five of our most important bits of advice for writing that persuades. … listen to episode october 15, 2018 5 ways to recover your professional and creative confidence “the big distinction here is to see confidence as an ability that you keep getting better at.” – dan sullivan … listen to episode october 8, 2018 5 stinky sardine secrets to make your content more fascinating how to stand out in a sea of boring content? it might be time to get stinky … … listen to episode september 18, 2018 how to kill your sales and mess up your business: lessons from a used car salesman when does traditional sales advice actually push prospects further away? … listen to episode september 4, 2018 the 7 things writers need to make a (good) living ever been frustrated by the daunting task of making a (really good) living as a writer? i have some thoughts on what it takes … … listen to episode august 27, 2018 are you making these social media marketing mistakes? busting social media marketing myths with social media lab’s scott ayres. … listen to episode august 20, 2018 fix these 7 about page mistakes for more traffic and (possibly) better seo “you’re so vain … you probably think your about page is about you …” … listen to episode august 13, 2018 7 ways to boost your creativity there’s so much content marketing out there that’s perfectly ok … but it lacks creative spark. here are some ways you can get more vitality into your blog posts, videos, and podcasts. … listen to episode august 6, 2018 a 10-step ‘checklist’ for your content marketing site have a new content site, or an existing site that needs more focus? here’s a “checklist” of 10 things to keep in mind. … listen to episode july 30, 2018 the 3 keys to publishing strong content … even if you aren’t a ‘great’ writer (yet) how can we find the confidence to publish regularly — when we’re not completely confident in our writing ability yet? … listen to episode july 23, 2018 fix these 3 points of failure to get better results for your content a quick three-step check to make any piece of content more interesting and more effective. … listen to episode july 16, 2018 big changes at convertkit: a discussion with founder nathan barry convertkit founder nathan barry dropped by to talk about their platform, their evolution, and why they’ve taken a leap into a brand-new name and identity. … listen to episode july 9, 2018 3 skills to master to become a marketing badass this year most of us won’t make a living making “pure art” that only serves our creative expression. but you won’t make a reasonable living writing cynical garbage, either. … listen to episode june 18, 2018 the quiet power of conversational copy a lot of us feel a tension between effective copywriting and content that fully respects our audiences. “conversational copywriter” nick usborne joins us to talk about why that’s a false choice. … listen to episode june 11, 2018 5 rules of thumb to relieve seo-induced stress does search engine optimization seem depressingly hard to stay on top of? things do move quickly, but that doesn’t mean you have to let it drive you nuts. … listen to episode june 4, 2018 how to use the gdpr to make your business stronger than ever lots of businesses and marketers are scrambling over the new data protection law, gdpr. but tara gentile is here to talk about some of the real-world benefits it can bring — not just to consumers, but to business. … listen to episode may 14, 2018 ‘good karma’ selling that works: a conversation with tim paige tim paige is that rarest of creatures: a really good salesperson who understands the people who aren’t (yet). … listen to episode april 30, 2018 how to get more comfortable (and effective) at selling selling is a skill, not an innate talent. but that doesn’t mean it’s always comfortable to learn. … listen to episode april 23, 2018 privacy and permission in the wake of cambridge analytica legislators, citizens, and advertisers are all concerned about the trends in privacy and permission on social platforms — but they’re concerned for different reasons. … listen to episode april 16, 2018 seth godin and how to create change a conversation about what matters in marketing and business. … listen to episode april 9, 2018 email? chatbots? social? how are we supposed to reach people? given everyone’s crowded inboxes and fragmented attention spans — what’s the best way to reach people? … listen to episode march 26, 2018 the double-edged sword that can make (or break) your content there’s an incredibly useful tool that can actually sabotage your content … if you don’t use it correctly. … listen to episode march 19, 2018 make more progress by getting (gently) out of your comfort zone what’s the best way to handle overwhelm, especially when it comes with a side of procrastination? … listen to episode march 12, 2018 are you doing content marketing wrong? it’s time for the latest round of “content marketing doesn’t work any more” stories. can you tell these make me a little cranky? … listen to episode march 5, 2018 storytelling for modern content marketing (part 2 of 2) tech and tactics come and go — but storytelling lasts forever. in this episode, shane snow and joe lazauskas of contently share their favorite techniques for developing a storytelling edge. (part 2 of a 2-part episode.) … listen to episode february 26, 2018 storytelling for modern content marketing (part 1 of 2) tech and tactics come and go — but storytelling lasts forever. in this episode, shane snow and joe lazauskas of contently share their favorite techniques for developing a storytelling edge. (part 1 of a 2-part episode.) … listen to episode february 19, 2018 10 quality factors search engines need to see on your site what do the search engines mean by a “high quality site”? … listen to episode february 12, 2018 a simple content strategy to make your site massively more useful here’s a simple way to make the best use of your time when you’re creating new content, improve your seo, and create a great user experience on your website. … listen to episode february 5, 2018 how to avoid a heartbreaking business failure i see and hear the horror stories on facebook, on linkedin, at conferences. folks who spend months or sometimes years on a big, bold business idea … only to see it die at launch with no sales. … listen to episode january 29, 2018 hey writers: let’s get you paid what you’re worth the web needs talented writers. so why is it (sometimes) so hard for the best writers to get paid what they’re worth? … listen to episode january 15, 2018 5 keys to making your content more shareable content sharing is the great “free ride” of 2018. you get more people looking at your stuff, and you don’t have to pay a dime for it. but you do need to set your content up for sharing success. … listen to episode december 18, 2017 3 observations on trends (but not predictions) for 2018 i don’t believe in predictions. the future isn’t a mystery novel, with carefully selected clues left for us to decipher. but there’s something i do think is useful to watch. … listen to episode december 11, 2017 3 tips now to build a strong foundation in 2018 january is the traditional month to work on goals for the new year, but there’s a lot to be said for starting in december. … listen to episode december 4, 2017 the 3 success factors that help writers earn a great living why do some of the most talented people see the least success? sometimes they’re held back by misconceptions about marketing and sales. … listen to episode november 27, 2017 how to recognize a great content idea it’s hard enough to come up with ideas — but when we do, how do we know they’re any good? how can we evaluate our ideas and make sure we’re choosing the ones that will create the best content? … listen to episode november 20, 2017 how to cultivate a more meaningful gratitude practice do the usual “gratitude practices” ever feel formulaic or simplistic to you? here are some that i’ve found can go a little deeper. … listen to episode november 13, 2017 advice for poets, advice for killers william maynard of the bates agency once wrote that “… most good copywriters fall into two categories. poets. and killers. poets see an ad as an end. killers as a means to an end.” and david ogilvy famously added,”if you are both killer and poet, you get rich.” … listen to episode october 30, 2017 face your business fears on halloween week happy halloween week! today we’re talking with rebecca tracey about entrepreneurial fear — how it holds us back and what we can do about it. … listen to episode october 23, 2017 how to make smarter decisions about your website neuroscience tells us that making decisions for our content strategy or our websites is “cognitively expensive.” in simpler terms — it’s exhausting. here are a few “back of the envelope” factors that can help you zero in on the right choice. … listen to episode october 2, 2017 a series of unfortunate content events 5 painful mistakes i’ve seen writers, marketers, and business owners make … and how you can avoid them … listen to episode september 18, 2017 the evolution of a successful copywriter how one freelance copywriter found his groove, and how you can find yours, too. … listen to episode august 28, 2017 7 ways to improve your marketing by harnessing the power of evil think marketing is evil? only if you’re doing it right … … listen to episode august 14, 2017 smart questions from our brilliant audience a collection of great questions from our smart audience! … listen to episode august 7, 2017 does the web have enough patience for your in-depth content? a comment from one of our blog readers sparked some thoughts… … listen to episode july 31, 2017 how to write (much better) blog comments seems simple enough, right? then how come so many people are terrible at it? … listen to episode july 17, 2017 which works better: positive or negative content? which works better in content marketing — positive messages or negative ones? well … it depends. … listen to episode july 10, 2017 how to attract the exact customers you want being able to visualize a specific and vivid “who” is one of the most important things you’ll ever figure out in your marketing or your business. … listen to episode july 3, 2017 how to create stability and success as an artist we all know the cliche of the starving artist — but how about the thriving artist? jeff goins has some advice on how to “build a bridge in the direction of your dream.” … listen to episode june 19, 2017 two powerful resources for life-changing growth can we change who we are? are we stuck with the aptitudes and habits we have today, or can we make fundamental changes? and if change is possible … are we up to the challenge? … listen to episode june 12, 2017 how to turn all that marketing advice into action are you a “training addict”? wondering how to handle all of the marketing and business information you’re taking in? allow me to suggest a plan. … listen to episode june 5, 2017 how to develop a compelling marketing idea in 4 steps want to be more persuasive? you need to start with a great idea. here’s how to develop one. … listen to episode may 30, 2017 getting over the fear of selling is your fear of selling keeping you from where you want to go? … listen to episode may 22, 2017 talking community and digital business with tara gentile a business community for the new economy … listen to episode may 15, 2017 plagiarism, self-deception, bad sandwiches, and other interesting disasters perception is not reality. reality is still reality. … listen to episode may 1, 2017 professional writers: find out how to get certified by copyblogger our certification program for content marketers will be opening up again soon. … listen to episode april 17, 2017 the painful core lesson taught by 3 astonishing big-brand fails has the entire business world lost its mind? some thoughts on interesting disasters … and on how to do your homework for better results. … listen to episode april 3, 2017 5 mindset habits that actually work there’s so much mindset advice out there to make you more successful … but is it doing you more harm than good? … listen to episode march 27, 2017 on grammar, usage, and not being a great big jerk in memory of washington post copyeditor, bill walsh, and the finer points of grammar and usage peeves. … listen to episode march 20, 2017 creative strategies for content writers this week, i talk with copywriter and content creator kaleigh moore about her tips for staying productive and creative. … listen to episode march 13, 2017 a new ultra-easy resource for creating excellent wordpress sites a conversation with brian gardner about the evolution of wordpress and new things happening at studiopress … listen to episode february 20, 2017 thriving freelancers and clients from hell what’s a freelancer’s biggest nightmare? clients from hell! guest bryce bladon shares his experience on how to cope — and how to avoid problems from the outset. … listen to episode february 13, 2017 politics, content marketing, and the 2017 super bowl ads is it wise to get political with our content marketing? … listen to episode february 6, 2017 copyblogger book club: winning the story wars we love books at copyblogger! today, we’re digging into jonah sachs’ winning the story wars. … listen to episode january 23, 2017 3 content marketing strategy fails (and how to fix them) no, content marketing strategy is not “make a whole bunch of spaghetti and see what sticks to the wall.” … listen to episode january 9, 2017 the 2017 content excellence challenge: your january assignments new year, new you? or nah? … listen to episode december 19, 2016 bad writing advice: the ‘post truth’ episode so much bad advice … … listen to episode december 12, 2016 get ready now for a creative and productive 2017 see ya, 2016! we’re starting 2017 early this year. … listen to episode december 5, 2016 the 4 pillars every online business is built on ever thought about launching an online course … or some other digital product or service? here are the four most important elements you need to put into play. … listen to episode november 28, 2016 orbit media’s latest survey of 1000 bloggers it’s time again for andy crestodina’s annual survey of 1000(+) bloggers. take a listen and see how your site measures against the trends … … listen to episode november 14, 2016 have you already missed the podcasting gold rush? is it too late to start a podcast? should we all just shut up and listen quietly, rather than launching something that isn’t great? … listen to episode november 7, 2016 getting more traffic, links, and shares to your content “help! no one is reading my content!” we have some thoughts … … listen to episode october 31, 2016 5 quick wins for content marketers content marketing is a long game … but that doesn’t mean we can’t create some quick wins. … listen to episode october 24, 2016 announcing: an intriguing new tool for collaborative content smart content producers know that we can produce a lot more (and better) content when we collaborate. but collaboration brings its own set of headaches and complexities. today we talk about a nifty new tool to make it simpler. … listen to episode october 17, 2016 a new book to make content marketing easier there’s a word that comes up a lot when we talk about content marketing: intimidating. … listen to episode october 10, 2016 behind the scenes at copyblogger: our new email approach here’s a great problem to have: producing so much high-quality content that your audience gets overwhelmed. but the thing is … it’s still a problem. … listen to episode october 3, 2016 the ‘obligatory’ structure of effective content fiction needs what editor shawn coyne calls “obligatory scenes” — the elements that satisfy audience expectations and make the book a must-read. do those elements exist for content? and if so … what are they? … listen to episode september 26, 2016 7 powerful content strategies borrowed from advertising masters the copyblogger blog was founded on a simple but powerful idea — that our content (blogs, podcasts, video) can be strengthened by adapting techniques from the world of direct response copywriting. … listen to episode september 15, 2016 how to handle demographic and psychographic segmentation (without looking like an idiot) a common newbie marketing mistake is trying to talk to everyone. there are all kinds of buzzwords around speaking to a specific audience — segmentation, demographics, psychographics, generational marketing. today sonia talks about a few pitfalls and best practices. … listen to episode september 8, 2016 ethics, professionalism, and good manners for content marketers there’s a lot of great content out there … and then there’s the topic of today’s podcast. sonia looks at the good, the bad, and the ugly. … listen to episode september 1, 2016 3 questions that can haunt creative professionals sonia’s back on the podcast this week with suggestions on how to address three challenges that pop up often in our communities. … listen to episode august 25, 2016 how to give and get exceptional testimonials, part two did you realize that making it a habit to give testimonials regularly can pay off in some powerful ways? … listen to episode august 18, 2016 how to give and get exceptional testimonials, part one in an age where we’re faced with too many choices, testimonials help us trust enough to make a decision to buy. are you using this powerful tool in your business? … listen to episode august 11, 2016 are you leaving money on the table with weak headlines? your headline is the epic gateway to your content. are you doing everything you can to pull your readers across the threshold? … listen to episode august 4, 2016 content marketing for nonprofits are the rules of content marketing different for nonprofits? we talk with help one now founder chris marlow to find out. … listen to episode july 28, 2016 the one-two punch that creates the most successful copywriters in the copywriting world, some of us are poets and some of us are killers. the really great ones are a blend of both. … listen to episode july 21, 2016 pokémon go: the good, the bad, and the ugly whether you love it or hate it — pokémon go is the biggest global hit in a long time. is it worthwhile to try and find a poké-marketing angle? … listen to episode july 14, 2016 5 suggestions when you’re writing about controversy expressing deeply held values in your content can have powerful results. but what happens when the conversation becomes controversial? … listen to episode july 7, 2016 announcing: a breakthrough educational collaboration between copyblogger and u.c. davis in the explosion of online courses and education … what role will universities play? announcing a new copyblogger collaboration … … listen to episode june 30, 2016 how to break past the #1 conversion killer what is it that makes people “almost buy”? why do some customers online get most of the way through the purchase and then … close the page and walk away? … listen to episode june 23, 2016 the new age of marketing automation: powerful, simple, cost-effective can automating certain elements of our marketing actually make our messages more personal and less “robotic”? … listen to episode june 16, 2016 how to make a (really good) living as a freelance writer it really is possible to make a good living as a freelancer, if you approach it as a business and get strategic. … listen to episode june 9, 2016 self-publishing, side hustles, and doing it all: a conversation with linda formichelli linda formichelli is a longtime advocate for writers — and she has a new book out to help all of us get a lot more great stuff into our lives. … listen to episode june 2, 2016 a process for content marketing success content marketing doesn’t work without a consistent flow of high-quality content. but how do we get all of that created … on a schedule? … listen to episode may 26, 2016 content marketing best practices: getting email opt-ins email works incredibly well as a marketing tool … except when it doesn’t. what’s the best way to get people to sign up for an email list … and continue to read our messages? … listen to episode may 19, 2016 behind the scenes: adventures in advertising copyblogger and rainmaker digital have always benefited from what brian clark has called “brute force authority” — plenty of organic traffic. but we’ve started to experiment with something new. … listen to episode may 12, 2016 trump, apple, and facebook advertising: content marketing news for may, 2016 content marketing news, including trends in live video, apple’s quarterly numbers, facebook ads, and … that trump fellow. … listen to episode may 5, 2016 sally hogshead and the art of fascination the queen of fascination shares a new crop of insights with us … … listen to episode april 28, 2016 behind the scenes at the rainmaker digital company meeting! the theme behind the scenes at the rainmaker digital company meeting this year was: a bias for action. here are some resources for you to get it all done! … listen to episode april 14, 2016 social media news, social media constants the social media platforms are changing constantly. can we develop an approach that lets us stay current … without driving ourselves to distraction? … listen to episode april 7, 2016 strategies for b2b podcasting, with clark buckner the 5 steps to a strong b2b podcast, and more content and business thoughts with relationary marketing’s clark buckner … listen to episode march 31, 2016 content marketing success stories: fitness powerhouse examine.com chatting about business, content strategy, and the scientific method with sol orwell, co-founder of examine.com. … listen to episode march 24, 2016 behind the scenes: an inside look at the rainmaker fm redesign a behind-the-scenes look at the brand-new rainmaker.fm redesign. … listen to episode march 3, 2016 7 ways to get smarter with social media listening if you want to get smarter and more successful, you need to hone this skill: listen. … listen to episode february 18, 2016 the tactic you should steal from copyblogger traditional success advice points you to role models. if you want a seven- or eight-figure business, look for one and then copy how they got there. sometimes that’s a smart move … and sometimes it isn’t. … listen to episode february 4, 2016 email marketing: the misunderstood powerhouse email is the conversion powerhouse for most content marketing programs — and it’s so often misunderstood. … listen to episode january 14, 2016 trends and predictions for digital commerce: a conversation with brian clark digital commerce is a rising buzzword around the web — and with that, we’re offering an expansive set of new resources for digital business owners. what do we need to know about d-commerce in 2016? … listen to episode december 28, 2015 the end of the lede, the beginning of copyblogger fm you read that right, this is the last episode of the lede. but don’t worry too much about it, this also happens to be the inaugural episode of copyblogger fm … … listen to episode september 8, 2015 finally — a podcast about the superiority of written content i’m told there is this debate between audio content and written content. and it’s an acrimonious debate. so pamela “battle axe” wilson decided to address the issue head on. … listen to episode never miss new shows and episodes on rainmaker.fm get the best of the rainmaker.fm network in a single weekly email, along with two weeks of free training that will change the way you think about online marketing ... free registration rainmaker.fm is brought to you by discover why more than 80,000 companies in 135 countries choose wp engine for managed wordpress hosting. start getting more from your site today! copyright © 2020 rainmaker digital, llc. powered by the rainmaker platform. privacy policy · refund policy · cookie policy · terms of service · contact