home support portal customer portal contact sitemap language: en | es core-admin server admin easy home support portal features on-line demo general centralized design monitoring system applications checkers file and log watching docs documentation installation manual faq video tutorials get it web edition ssl certificates supported platforms installation services about us about us contact sitemap blog take control over your servers now! not just another server administration panel, core-admin is designed as a centralized and highly connected solution that provides instant access to all your servers with a single crendential over a secure connection (with additional ip-blocking features if you wish). now, it will be possible for you to see, configure and monitor your servers instantly, while letting your end users and customers to take advantage of services installed across them without worrying about their location. know more core-admin features you’ve got many server administration tools ready to use! core-admin is designed to let you get the most out of your servers. you not only need to give the best support to your customers, you need to have instant access to your servers to fix and configure. core-admin comes with lots of ready to use tools that will help you to monitor your servers, track your log files (as they progress!) or block automatically unauthorized access to your services (like bad logins on ssh, smtp, ftp…). did you ever want a tool to let you know unthorized modifications in your customer’s webpages to act as soon as possible? you only really have to test core-admin! see core-admin applications advanced platform design, easy to start and use! core-admin has a centralized design that unifies all your servers into a single administration panel through core-admin’s agents, giving to you and your customers access with a single user-login to any server no matter where they are located. taking advantage of the beep protocol (http://www.beepcore.org) and websocket, core-admin will provide you real-time access to invoke services and to get fresh information for all of your connected servers as events take place. know more about core-admin’s design next prev core-admin: massive server administration easy! core-admin is an extensible solution for server and device administration that integrates into a single solution powerful administration panels, an external and highly detailed internal checking engine and an event notification system that will allow you to track to the minute the state of all your systems connected to a central console. try on-line demo now! core admin was in openexpo 2018 powerful centralized design core-admin provides a centralized administration console that will help you to manage, monitor and administrate your servers easily. designed to support hundred of servers, core-admin allows secure access to your set of servers with a single credential in a quick manner, so you can easily do manage operations over all of your servers with a few clicks. know more powerful monitoring system core-admin comes with a complete and extensible set of internal checkers, log watching, file system watching and much more, that will provide you valuable information about the current internal state of all your servers. with an automatic self-discovery design that will help you to deploy all checkers that support your system, core-admin checking system will save you lot of time by spotting the point of failure as it happens. know more lots of ready to use apps core-admin comes with a set of ready to use applications to do many common tasks required on a daily basis, from real time log analysis, to an integreated ip blocking system, easy to use cron management, external checkings, processes and services viewer and many more. along with base applications included, there are core-admin editions (like core admin web edition), that includes especific applications designed for different scenarios. know more powerful permission system core-admin includes a ready to use permission system that will allow platform adminstrators to delegate permissions over the entire platform or at machine, application or object level. its hierarchical design allows to delegate permission assignation to those users selected, enforcing them to only give access to what they have been assigned. know more core-admin isp ready core-admin web edition and core-admin free web edition provide a specific solution carefully designed to meet the needs of hosting providers about handling mail servers, web servers, ftp servers and dns servers. along with those applications, core-admin provides valuable applications and security options like specific web files monitoring to detect common hackings, automatic ip blocking for login failures in various services or mail ip sending tracking to detect unauthorized usage of your servers. know more extensible platform! yes, you can develop your own applications, checkers and collectors for core-admin so you can extend the platform to fit your needs. core-admin is designed as a plataform to manage large set of servers, allowing to develop and easily deploy new applications on top of it. know more do you need a platform to manage your servers easily and let you check them beyond ping? you really have to see core-admin in action. get it now, right here! try on-line demo now! how to globally change wordpress account password for all your wordpress sites with core-admin in case you need to change password for the same account across all wordpress sites in a machine, you can use the f… fixing database recovery with failing innodb_force_recovery for mysql + innodb hardware failure with #innodb #mysql that is not recovering even with innodb_force_recovery? here is how to solv… core-admin 1.0.7673 ‘my name is human’ stable release is ready! we have just released new stable core-admin release. see all details at: core-admin 1.0.7673 ‘my name is human’… get core-admin now! check out current core-admin editions available to see the one that fits your needs! get core-admin now! recent posts how to globally change wordpress account password for all your wordpress sites with core-admin in case you need to change password for the same account across all wordpress sites in a machine, you can use the follow core... fixing database recovery with failing innodb_force_recovery for mysql + innodb hardware failure with #innodb #mysql that is not recovering even with innodb_force_recovery? here is how to solve and fix ... latest tweets rt @asplhosting: ¿necesitas optimizar y recuperar espacio en disco? te mostramos en la siguiente guía cómo usar el #asistente para #recuper… [196 days ago] rt @asplhosting: #coreadmin #wlt es un plugin que proporciona protección ante ataques por fuerza bruta y que está enmarcado en las medidas… [197 days ago] follow us on twitter core-admin links support portal on-line demo contact us ssl certificates core-admin web edition language: en | es aspl software axl library ext-dns jsvortex nopoll stack mqtt: myqtt turbulence valvula policy server vortex library copyright © 2000-2019 advanced software production line, s.l. scroll to top home support portal customer portal contact sitemap