corey robin menu archive about articles cv books categories economies education foreign policy labor/workplace law literature media middle east political theory race repression repression the left the right the state uncategorized violence search search icon follow @coreyrobin follow on facebook rss feed rss - posts rss - comments email subscription enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. join 8,258 other subscribers email address subscribe 2019 in writing 12.24.19 twitter facebook email print 3 comments i did a lot of writing this year. this is a brief list of some of my favorites. my book, the enigma of clarence thomas, came out. it got some pretty great reviews. you should buy it. i began writing for the new yorker online, which has been a joy. my first piece was on political converts, men and women who make the journey from one ideology to another, and why the move from left to right has mattered more, over the course of the last century, than the move from right to left. my second piece was on eric hobsbawm, a communist and a historian, and how his failure at the first made possible his success at the second. […] twitter facebook email print categories economies, education, law, media, race, the left, the right tags adam smith, alex gourevitch, clarence thomas, hayek, jodi dean, max weber, new yorker, obama, vivian gornick on c-span tomorrow, a conversation between me and jamelle bouie on clarence thomas 10.11.19 twitter facebook email print 5 comments if you missed my conversation with jamelle bouie at the new york public library about the enigma of clarence thomas, not to worry: it will be aired tomorrow night, saturday, october 12, at 9 pm (east coast time) on c-span. also, if you want to see a conversation in person, i’ll be talking with rebecca traister about the book at the community bookstore in brooklyn, on thursday, october 24, at 7 pm. really looking forward to that event. doug henwood interviewed me about the book on his show behind the news. we talked about how thomas’s views echo some of the arguments set out by max horkheimer in his famous 1936 essay “authority and the family,” and why it’s the […] twitter facebook email print categories law tags clarence thomas, doug henwood, jamelle bouie, kenneth mack, orlando patterson the enigma of clarence thomas on sale today! 09.24.19 twitter facebook email print 7 comments the enigma of clarence thomas goes on sale today, with the help of a rave review in this morning’s new york times. in the times, jennifer szalai writes: it’s a provocative thesis, but one of the marvels of robin’s razor-sharp book is how carefully he marshals his evidence. he doesn’t have to resort to elaborate speculation or armchair psychologizing, relying instead on thomas’s speeches, interviews and supreme court opinions. just as jurists make ample use of the written record, robin does the same. … the result is rigorous yet readable, frequently startling yet eminently persuasive. … it isn’t every day that reading about ideas can be both so gratifying and unsettling, and robin’s incisive and superbly argued book has […] twitter facebook email print categories law tags clarence thomas they came from everywhere 07.31.19 twitter facebook email print 3 comments last night, my wife laura organized a terrific debate watch party for bernie sanders supporters at a local bar. about 40 to 50 people showed up. the best part of it was that while most people were firm bernie supporters, a fair number were not. they were bernie-curious, but undecided. they came because of friends, girlfriends, boyfriends, and so on, who brought them there. so it felt like a base-expanding moment. even better, i had an interesting conversation with one woman, who is a definite bernie supporter, and her boyfriend, who is less certain about bernie. they’re both nurses. her parents immigrated from china about 30 years ago. she lives in sheepshead bay. so she told me she identifies with […] twitter facebook email print categories the left tags bernie sanders when politics becomes professional: from the obamanauts to the new deal 07.31.19 twitter facebook email print 4 comments the historian josh freeman has an excellent review of michael walzer’s political action, which came out in 1971 but has been reissued by nyrb books. freeman compares walzer’s short pamphlet to the manual of practical political action, another how-to political guide, prepared in 1946 by the labor movement’s national citizens political action committee (ncpac), one of the first modern pacs. both texts were written at moments of political deceleration, when the velocities of change were about to alter dramatically or already had. but here’s what josh says about that earlier moment that’s relevant for today: for ncpac…organizing requires strategies that are not inherently progressive. somewhat apologetically, the manual suggests borrowing techniques from commercial advertising, presenting detailed guidance, much of it derived from standard business practices, […] twitter facebook email print categories labor/workplace, race, repression, the left tags chester bowles, josh cohen, josh freeman, michael walzer, new deal, obama, sam bowles book launch with jamelle bouie at the new york public library 07.22.19 twitter facebook email print comments i’m thrilled to announce the launch of my book, the enigma of clarence thomas, at the new york public library. i’ll be in conversation with new york times columnist jamelle bouie. the launch will be on monday, september 23, at 7 pm. it’ll be in the berger forum, on the second floor of the main branch of the library, at 42nd street and 5th avenue. tickets are free, but they’re on a first come, first serve basis, so reserve them now. you can do so here. hope to see all of you who can make it! twitter facebook email print categories law tags clarence thomas, jamelle bouie, new york public library when you hear a familiar voice at the other end of the line… 07.15.19 twitter facebook email print 5 comments about six weeks ago i got a call from a number in dc i didn’t recognize. i answered the phone warily, saying hello more as a question than a greeting. at the other end, i heard, “professor robin?” “who’s this?” i asked. “it’s nina totenberg from npr.” i started cracking up, almost uncontrollably, and finally said, hi, hi, of course, nina totenberg. she noted that i sounded “furtive.” i noted that i didn’t recognize the number. anyway, we wound up having a lovely chat about clarence thomas. totenberg is as warm and friendly and personable on the phone as she is on air. on friday, a small bit of our conversation made it into the segment she did on thomas in […] twitter facebook email print categories law tags clarence thomas, kirkus, nina totenberg for academics in search of a public audience 06.27.19 twitter facebook email print comments i often get requests for advice from academics who are writing a book for a university press but who want the book to reach a broader non-academic audience. despite getting useful scholarly critiques from anonymous reader reports, these academics want someone to help them with the style and structure of the book. they want to write a book that will crossover, that will speak not only to their peers in the field but also to readers outside their field, ideally outside the academy. they just don’t know how to do it; they need help figuring out how. while most academic presses don’t have such editors, there is something called a development editor who can do exactly that kind of work for […] twitter facebook email print categories education tags john pallattella, sam erman how on god’s green earth did clarence thomas just write an opinion on race and jury trials that was well to the right (or was it?) of brett kavanaugh, john roberts, samuel alito, and even neil gorsuch? 06.21.19 twitter facebook email print 9 comments in a 7-2 vote, the supreme court today overturned the conviction of curtis flowers for murder; he had been on death row in mississippi for 22 years. the court held, in flowers v. mississippi, that the trial court had wrongly concluded that the prosecution’s decision to strike a potential juror, who is black, was not motivated by racial discrimination. flowers, who is also black, has been tried six times for the same murder by the same prosecutor. there is a long record of the prosecutor striking potential jurors who are black. what’s interesting about the court’s opinion is the line-up. conservative justice brett kavanaugh wrote the majority decision; he was joined by chief justice john roberts and justice samuel alito, both […] twitter facebook email print categories law tags clarence thomas, flowers v. mississippi, jury trial, neil gorsuch, race what thomas’s opinion about abortion today tells us about his jurisprudence as a whole 05.28.19 twitter facebook email print 8 comments i’ve been getting a lot of queries about clarence thomas’s concurring opinion in box v. planned parenthood of indiana and kentucky. briefly, thomas spends all but a few paragraphs of his twenty-page opinion outlining what he sees as the eugenicist dimensions of abortion and birth control. this, as many have noted, is a new turn in thomas’s abortion jurisprudence. thomas essentially argues here that abortion is the way that women select and de-select the kinds of children they’re going to have. what’s more, while much of the discussion on the right in this regard focuses on how considerations of the sex of the fetus or the presence of down syndrome may influence the decision to have an abortion, thomas focuses overwhelmingly […] twitter facebook email print categories law tags abortion, clarence thomas, eugenics, kimberlé crenshaw on eric hobsbawm and other matters 05.09.19 twitter facebook email print 6 comments i’m in the new yorker this morning, writing about richard evans’s new biography of the historian eric hobsbawm, explaining how the failures of evans the biographer reveal the greatness of hobsbawm the historian: hobsbawm’s biographer, richard evans, is one of britain’s foremost historians and the author of a commanding trilogy on nazi germany. he knew hobsbawm for many years, though “not intimately,” and was given unparalleled access to his public and private papers. it has not served either man well. more data dump than biography, “eric hobsbawm: a life in history” is overwhelmed by trivia, such as the itineraries of hobsbawm’s travels, extending back to his teen-age years, narrated to every last detail. the book is also undermined by errors: […] twitter facebook email print categories economies, literature, the left, the right tags adam phillips, eric hobsbawm, jack balkin, marx, richard evans, steve skowronek, trump the enigma of clarence thomas is coming to a theater near you! 05.03.19 twitter facebook email print 7 comments i’ve finished my book on clarence thomas. the galleys are here; i love love love the cover! the pub date is september 24. you can pre-order now! twitter facebook email print categories law tags clarence thomas david brion davis, 1927-2019: countersubversive at yale 04.17.19 twitter facebook email print 6 comments david brion davis, the pathbreaking yale historian of slavery and emancipation, whose books revolutionized how we approach the american experience, has died. the obituaries have rightly discussed his many and manifold contributions, a legacy we will be parsing in the days and months ahead. yet for those of us who were graduate students at yale during the 1990s and who participated in the union drive there, the story of david brion davis is more complicated. davis helped break the grade strike of 1995, in a manner so personal and peculiar, yet simultaneously emblematic, as not to be forgotten. not long after the strike, i wrote at length about davis’s actions in an essay called “blacklisted and blue: on theory and […] twitter facebook email print categories education, labor/workplace tags anabel patterson, david brion davis, diana paton, emilia viotti da costa, eric foner, nancy cott, yale neoliberal catastrophism 03.26.19 twitter facebook email print 37 comments according to the washington post: former president barack obama gently warned a group of freshman house democrats monday evening about the costs associated with some liberal ideas popular in their ranks, encouraging members to look at price tags, according to people in the room. obama didn’t name specific policies. and to be sure, he encouraged the lawmakers — about half-dozen of whom worked in his own administration — to continue to pursue “bold” ideas as they shaped legislation during their first year in the house. but some people in the room took his words as a cautionary note about medicare-for-all and the green new deal, two liberal ideas popularized by a few of the more famous house freshmen, including rep. […] twitter facebook email print categories economies, the left tags climate change, eric hosbawm, klobuchar, obama, trump thoughts on russiagate, mueller, and trump’s prospects for reelection 03.25.19 twitter facebook email print 19 comments i find myself in a peculiar position with regard to the mueller report (assuming—big assumption, i know—that we have a good enough sense at this point of what’s in it). on the one hand, i was part of the russiagate skeptic circle. i didn’t doubt that russia had attempted to influence the election, but i didn’t think that attempt had much if any consequence; those who did, i thought, were grasping at straws. nor did i think there was a strong case for the claim that trump actively colluded with that effort and had thus put himself and the united states in hock to putin. the evidence of all the active anti-russian measures on the part of the us since […] twitter facebook email print categories the left, the right, the state tags mueller, pelosi, russiagate, trump do you believe in life after hayek 03.04.19 twitter facebook email print 13 comments sorry about the title; advertisements for the cher show are all over new york these days, so the song is in my head. anyway… in the boston review, the left economists suresh naidu, dani rodrick, and gabriel zucman offer an excellent manifesto of sorts for a new progressive economic agenda. i was asked to respond, and in a move that surprised me, i wound up returning to hayek to see what we on the left might learn from him and his achievement. here’s a snippet: far from resting neoliberalism on the authority of the natural sciences or mathematics (forms of inquiry hayek and mises sought to distance their work from) or on the technical knowledge of economists (as naidu and […] twitter facebook email print categories education, political theory, the left, the right tags dani rodrick, gabriel zucman, hayek, neoliberalism, suresh naidu interview about the historovox with bob garfield of on the media 03.01.19 twitter facebook email print 5 comments my piece on the historovox has provoked a lot of controversy and pushback. dan drezner devoted a column to it in the washington post. others have weighed in on social media. i had a chance to talk with bob garfield of the npr show on the media about the piece. have a listen. twitter facebook email print categories media tags bob garfield, dan drezner, historovox, on the media i was the target of a private israeli intelligence firm, and all i got was this lousy t-shirt 02.28.19 twitter facebook email print 10 comments in september 2017, i got a “cease and desist” email from an organization called outlawbds. they informed me that because of my activism around bds, i had been put on a “blacklist”—yes, they used that word, twice—and that i had a limited window of time to change my tune on bds in order to get my name removed from the blacklist and avoid the legal consequences of my advocacy. “you have been marked,” the email warned me. “you have been identified.” turns out the whole thing was part of an operation of an israeli intelligence firm called “psy-group.” whose activities have now been exposed in the new yorker. here are just a snippet of the items that might be of […] twitter facebook email print categories education, middle east tags bds, israel/palestine the historovox complex 02.20.19 twitter facebook email print 4 comments i’ve got a new gig at new york magazine, where i’ll be a regular contributor, writing on politics and other matters. here, in my first post, i tackle “the historovox” (my wife laura came up with the phrase), that complex of journalism and academic research that we increasingly see at places like vox, fivethirtyeight, and elsewhere. long story, short: while i firmly believe in academics writing for the public sphere, there are better and worse ways to do it. here are some excerpts: there’s a bad synergy at work in the historovox — as i call this complex of scholars and journalists — between the short-termism of the news cycle and the longue durée-ism of the academy. short-term interests and partisan concerns still drive […] twitter facebook email print categories education, media tags benjamin, orwell, research, vox adorno in america 02.15.19 twitter facebook email print 7 comments the history of the frankfurt school in america is usually told as a story of one-way traffic. the question being: what did america get from the frankfurt school? the answer usually offered: a lot! we got marcuse, neumann, lowenthal, fromm, and, for a time, horkheimer and adorno (who ultimately went back to germany after the war)—the whole array of émigré culture that helped transform the united states from a provincial outpost of arts and letters into a polyglot parnassus of the world. the wonderfully counter-intuitive and heterodox question that animates eric oberle’s theodor adorno and the century of negative identity is: what did the frankfurt school get from america? to the extent that question has been asked, it has traditionally provoked […] twitter facebook email print categories economies, political theory tags adorno, anti-semitism, eric oberle, frankfurt school, herbert aptheker, horkheimer, racism, ralph ellison left arrow older posts 1 / 57 send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.