menu videos news weather sports politics entertainment top spots top spots travel more travel cbs entertainment contests station info cbs 3 advertising news all news local traffic & transportation healthwatch consumer business politics tech entertainment autos only cbs latest headlines coronavirus latest: despite changes, camden county agencies still providing homeless, seniors with meals during pandemicwithout their usual army of volunteers, the cathedral kitchen in camden is stretching their people to the limit to meet the need for feeding homeless and hungry people in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. philadelphia police: 33-year-old man shot multiple times, killed in fairhillthe incident happened around 5:15 p.m. friday on the 2600 block of palethorp street. galleries celebrating national puppy day coronavirus fears hit delaware valley grocery stores hardphotos from around the delaware valley as people flocked to grocery stores amid the coronavirus outbreak. sports all sports latest phillies eagles flyers sixers college pga odds featured sports coronavirus latest: ben simmons launches the philly pledge to help raise money for philadelphia's covid-19 reliefsimmons announced friday he's launched a new group called "the philly pledge" to help with coronavirus relief. roman reigns pulls out of wrestlemania 36roman reigns, a leukemia survivor, will not face goldberg in wrestlemania, now an early-april in-studio event because of coronavirus concerns. sports podcasts eagles videos all videos news weather watch live cbsn philly weather school closings philadelphia weather weather videos weather videos philadelphia weather: heavy rain saturdaykate bilo reports.2 hours ago midday weather update: when we could see a t-stormllarisa abreu has the latest forecast.6 hours ago weather stories delaware valley weather: chilly sunday afternoon before rain moves in overnightas the weekend wraps up, it should remain dry throughout sunday, with a mix of sun and clouds and cooler temperatures, likely only in the upper 40s, even in the city. philadelphia weather: sunny skies to take over early morning drizzle sunday afternoonareas of early morning drizzle are possible as a system south of the philadelphia region continues to move away. top spots latest headlines see them: these philadelphia-based dogs are up for adoption, in need of furever homesstart your day off right by browsing through delightful doggies! there are dozens of dogs up for adoption right here in philadelphia. apartments for rent in philadelphia: what will $2,200 get you?we've rounded up the latest places for rent via rental sites zumper and apartment guide to get a sense of what to expect when it comes to scoring apartment rentals in philadelphia if you're on a budget of up to $2,200/month. coronavirus latest: museum of american revolution offering virtual field trip amid covid-19 outbreakthe museum of the american revolution is getting creative to keep the public entertained during their time off. find perfect winter escape at horticulture center’s getaway at the greenhouse in fairmount parkif you're dreaming of a little escape from winter, you don't have to go far to find it. fans can skate with gritty prior to flyers-penguins watch party at the lodge at blue cross riverrink fridaythe flyers are hosting a watch party for friday night's game against the penguins. wonderspaces offering visitors chance to interact with artwork at fashion district philadelphiawonderspaces opens at the fashion district philadelphia tomorrow. contests & more station info cbs 3 advertising travel officials: flight headed to new jersey diverted after passengers seated next to person sneezing, coughing became disruptivedenver police officials said three people were upset about a sick person on the plane. frontier airlines adding three new non-stop flights at philadelphia international airporttravelers will soon have more options when they fly in to or out of philadelphia international airport. philadelphia international airport testing facial recognition on some international flightsthe airport is testing a new program to scan the faces of passengers leaving the airport on some international flights. contests win tickets to the ac boat show more cbs entertainment cbsn phillywatch now coronavirus new jersey: lakewood man cited for hosting wedding at residence by cbs3 staffmarch 27, 2020 at 11:30 am filed under:coronavirus, lakewood news, local, local tv, william katzenstein lakewood, n.j. (cbs) — authorities say a lakewood man has been cited for hosting a wedding at his residence during the coronavirus pandemic. ocean county prosecutor bradley billhimer says 39-year-old william katzenstein was issued a summons for hosting the gathering, despite gov. phil murphy banning weddings and other social events to curb the covid-19 spread. police were called thursday to katzenstein’s residence on wayne street for a report of a gathering of around 40 people. officers broke up the wedding at katzenstein’s property. “we understand that everyone’s daily routine has been effected by the coronavirus and our state’s effort to isolate and contain the spread of this outbreak. it’s not easy. we understand how difficult it is change your way of living. we are all adapting as best we can. we all need to recognize the vital role we all have in flattening the curve of this outbreak. stay home, practice social distancing and please be considerate of the risks our men and women in law enforcement are facing every day,” billhimer said in a statement. katzenstein was issued a summons for violating any rule or regulation adopted by the governor. last week, another lakewood man was charged for hosting a pop-up wedding. cbs3 staff more from cbs3 staff comments you must log in to post a comment. follow us facebook_url twitter_url youtube_url instagram_url reddit_url linkedin_url our | newsletter most viewed coronavirus latest: penn medicine coronavirus model warns of tsunami to hit philadelphia in may coronavirus latest: gerrity's supermarket tossed $35,000 worth of food after woman purposely coughed on fresh produce, other items, owner says coronavirus in philadelphia: port richmond wawa closes after employee tests positive for covid-19 coronavirus latest: new jersey disaster declaration approved as cases soar above 6,800, death toll climbs to 81 coronavirus latest: crocs offering free shoes to health care workers coronavirus new jersey: lakewood man cited for hosting wedding at residence coronavirus pennsylvania: covid-19 cases in philly rise to 475 as pennsylvania total nears 1,700 coronavirus latest: pennsylvania covid-19 cases soar above 2,200 as more deaths reported across delaware valley coronavirus philadelphia: city ends negotiations to use shuttered hahnemann hospital as covid-19 treatment center coronavirus relief package: how much money will you get, and when? follow us facebooktwitteryoutubeinstagramredditlinkedin news philly news business consumer entertainment healthwatch politics tech philadelphia weather sports philly sports phillies sixers flyers eagles entertainment only cbs top spots travel other cbs 3 tv program guide videos contests links school closings corporate about us advertise connect ©2020 cbs broadcasting inc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip by viewing our video content, you are accepting the terms of our video services policy privacy policy terms of use california privacy/info we collect california do not sell my info mobile user agreement ad choices public file for kyw-tv public inspection file help eeo report