sections skip to content american airlines jobs on the line, dfw airport stores closing in coronavirus fallout | fort worth star-telegram submit sections search eedition customer service customer service mobile & apps newsletters coronavirus news local fort worth arlington northeast tarrant texas crime & courts politics elections bud kennedy databases nation and world sports cowboys rangers tcu mac engel colleges mavericks motorsports stars high school sports scores & schedules all sports football baseball softball volleyball boys basketball girls basketball opinion editorials letters submit a letter bud kennedy ryan j. rusak cynthia m. allen other voices business business growth entertainment restaurants arts & culture movies things to do music nightlife party pics horoscopes comics puzzles and games living food & drink arts health & fitness indulge the keller magazine neil sperry social eyes dear abby weddings la estrella la estrella locales noticias deportes entretenimiento contáctenos media kit obituaries today's obituaries obituaries in the news submit an obituary video all videos news video sports video politics video business video living video entertainment video weather video crime video weddings all weddings announcements bridal show contact us inspiration news & advice vendors must know hispanic heritage cancer awareness healthy lifestyle dining, entertaining breast cancer awareness think green money matters all about pets careers and business health and wellness how to... women today family and parenting easy living tips lawn and garden giving back men today on the road 1 on the road 2 public notices jobs homes classifieds mobile & apps archives american airlines american airlines jobs on the line, dfw airport stores closing in coronavirus fallout by gordon dickson march 16, 2020 01:33 pm order reprint → fort worth the air travel industry faces a crisis unseen since the sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks because of the coronavirus — and some who follow the commercial aviation industry closely say the financial impact may even be worse than the 9-11 fallout. at the moment, many people don’t have the freedom to fly. and, u.s. airlines — which have already slashed their international flights and trimmed domestic routes — face a real possibility that most or all of their domestic flights may soon be grounded, either by government mandate or a simple lack of consumer demand. “the number of flights will be slashed, and it’s entirely possible we’ll see a full shutdown of the airline industry for a period of time,” said brett snyder, president of the popular air travel blog cranky flier. on monday, american and other large u.s. airlines disclosed they were in talks with the federal government for more than $50 billion in aid — although the specific form of the requested assistance was unclear. local news has never been more important subscribe for unlimited digital access to the news that matters to your community. #readlocal “for airlines, this will be dire,” snyder said in an email. “even though they are in better shape financially than in past crises, this one looks to be more impactful than anything we’ve seen previously. every airline will be in a world of hurt. the government will have to offer bail-outs or every airline will likely file for bankruptcy protection. though it’s too early to say, the impact so far could easily surpass what we saw after 9/11.” on monday, fort worth-based american airlines’ pilots union disclosed that it had reached a deal with the airline over the weekend to offer early retirement to pilots ages 62 and older and to provide partial pay to other flight crew members who take voluntary, short-term leave. eric ferguson, president of the allied pilots association, wrote in a letter to members sunday that his organization was working with american to prevent involuntary employee furloughs or layoffs. nearly 30,000 people in the dallas-fort worth region work for american airlines. send us your questions about coronavirus in fort worth. we’ll try to get answers do you have questions about the coronavirus or happenings around fort worth and tarrant county related to the coronavirus? do you have any concerns or stories you'd like to share? fill out this form and let us know. we will do our best to help. “i know the possibility of a furlough is on many of your minds. i can tell you that at this point, the likelihood of a furlough has not been suggested by either side,” ferguson wrote. “if that changes, we will let you know immediately. one of the main objectives of the loa (letter of agreement with the airline) ratified today is to mitigate that threat. at this point, it is too early to tell if we are headed down that path, but understand that stopping and reversing the training machinery would be incredibly costly and time-consuming. it is in our mutual interest to avoid reductions by way of furlough.” pilots approved for a short-term, voluntary leave of absence would receive 55 hours per month of pay at their hourly rate, plus retirement and other benefits, according to terms of the deal. at dfw airport, which is perennially among the top 10 busiest airports in the world, at least seven shops inside the passenger terminals were shuttered until further notice. dfw is among just 13 airports receiving international passengers from countries where travel is restricted because of the coronavirus pandemic. last weekend, thousands of travelers were crammed shoulder-to-shoulder at dfw’s customs area, trying to get back into the u.s. before a travel ban took effect. but on monday, the wait was only about 10 minutes, an airport spokesman said. “we are continuing to assess what services and which of the concessions options can and should continue to serve the customers at the airport during this time,” spokesman bill begley said in a statement. “with the impacts to flights and passenger movement, dfw airport retail locations are experiencing a significant decrease in sales. in support of our airline partners, we are reviewing where we can reduce our non-essential expenses which will help reduce airline costs at dfw.” beyond the immediate fallout, airlines may need many months to recover from the immediate fallout of the coronavirus crisis, especially if the u.s. economy falls into a recession, said scott mayerowitz, executive editorial director of the points guy, an air travel news site. if the u.s. economy shrinks significantly, fewer travelers will have jobs and disposable income, which could dramatically curb demand for business and leisure air travel. “the real risk to the aviation industry right now is recession,” mayerowitz said in an interview. “if this is a short-term ding on our economy, there should be the ability to get out there and grow. but if workers are being laid off or having to take reduced salaries or anything else that affects their livelihood, this is going to have an impact on the travel industry.” but long-term, once the economy recovers mayerowitz said he is confident that the airline industry can rebound as demand for travel resumes. “we are recommending everybody stay home and not travel,” he said, “but use that time to plan out those next big vacations.” related stories from fort worth star telegram fort-worth the salvation army screens about 500 fort worth homeless people a day for coronavirus march 12, 2020 5:56 pm fort-worth cheap gas prices or not, when the oil and gas industry goes bust it hurts fort worth march 12, 2020 12:05 pm gordon dickson 817-390-7796 gordon dickson joined the fort worth star-telegram in 1997. he is passionate about hard news reporting, and his beats include transportation, growth, urban planning, aviation, real estate, jobs, business trends. he is originally from el paso, and loves food, soccer and long drives. comments videos tour american airlines’ new fort worth campus american airlines safety video view more video local spotlight read next coronavirus american airlines, other carriers offer travelers options during coronavirus pandemic by gordon dickson march 23, 2020 05:22 pm order reprint → after years of shrinking seat space and raising baggage fees, airlines are now taking steps to keep customers as the coronavirus pandemic spreads. travelers can now change flights without fees. keep reading local news has never been more important #readlocal subscribe for unlimited digital access to the news that matters to your community. #readlocal more american airlines video media created with sketch. coronavirus coronavirus strikes fort worth’s economic engine. how long until we recover? march 22, 2020 5:00 am american airlines ‘in the fight of our lives,’ american airlines scraps 55,000 flights amid coronavirus march 19, 2020 6:35 pm video media created with sketch. american airlines american airlines pilot based in dallas-fort worth tests positive for the coronavirus march 12, 2020 8:53 pm american airlines american airlines fights price gouging after trump’s europe travel ban creates chaos march 12, 2020 12:33 pm american airlines man tries to open plane’s exit door on flight from chicago to dfw, passengers say march 04, 2020 10:08 am american airlines coronavirus is hurting american airlines, other texas companies. how bad can it get? february 28, 2020 2:00 pm take us with you real-time updates and all local stories you want right in the palm of your hand. subscriptions start a subscription customer service eedition vacation hold pay your bill learn more about us contact us newsletters news in education archives advertising information place a classified copyright commenting policy privacy policy terms of service