/ xeni jardin / 12:41 pm fri mar 27, 2020 coronavirus: disneyland resort and walt disney world resort 'closed until further notice' follow us twitter / facebook / rss [cdc] on friday, disney announced that disneyland resort and walt disney world resort will remain closed until further notice. previously, the parks and resorts were to be temporarily closed only until april 18, 2020. [via @frankpallotta] share / tweet / 11 comments business / coronavirus / coronavirus shutdown / covid-19 / covid19 / disney / entertainment get the boing boing newsletter demanding coronavirus protections, instacart workers plan to strike monday, march 30 “they are putting us directly in harm’s way while profiting greatly. we cannot let this be considered normal.” read the rest cirque du soleil launches online portal for viewing shows, explores bankruptcy in coronavirus shutdown: reuters cirque du soleil just launched ‘cirqueconnect,’ where you can view shows — it’s especially great for kids stuck indoors during the pandemic shutdown. all of the company’s live shows are canceled due to the coronavirus crisis, and they are exploring financial options that include bankruptcy, reports reuters. las vegas casinos and resorts, including the one […] read the rest two tesla employees test positive for coronavirus, and are recovering from home: reports elon musk previously mocked ‘coronavirus panic’ as ‘dumb.’ read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support