menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies coronavirus coronavirus 11+ best games to play during coronavirus quarantine sam newman 18 people with coronavirus describe their symptoms + experiences with the virus emily madriga 21+ tips for working from home during coronavirus quarantine sam newman social distancing? hang out with your friends via the houseparty app kelly peacock 27 coronavirus stories about what it’s like in italy right now emily madriga ranking the zodiac signs based on who would make the best & worst apocalypse wife january nelson coronavirus: airline pilots talk about flying during the covid-19 pandemic jerome london latest coronavirus articles stay home, make stories emily dickson “ yes, i know we are in a quarantine. i know we are social distancing. i am aware of the unique health challenges and financial uncertainty that many are facing. i know that these are serious times. 25 random thoughts while in self-quarantine brett nolan “ did i put on deodorant today? i’m your peloton bike and i’m here to help you navigate this pandemic juliana lavita “ you are on fire. (nothing compared to the fiery turmoil the world is facing with covid-19, but hey, you’re totally on track to getting that summer bod.) here’s why we’re stronger together when we’re apart sonya matejko “ social distancing isn’t something to ignore, but it’s also not an excuse to ignore your support system. ⁣⁣ how each zodiac sign is dealing with the pandemic liane white “ aries: this pandemic has ruined all your plans and you find yourself staying indoors with too much energy to burn. the world is on hold, but you’re still alive lani joy osicka “ the world is on hold and we continue on somehow. we don’t know any other way. here’s why you should savor this time at home (even when it’s stressful) brandon mead “ create new recipes, make music, film a tiktok in your living room, build a fort, keep working on crow pose, design a board game, organize your pens in alphabetical order by color and call it an art piece. whatever you create, i can’t wait to see it. in despair, look for peace michaela rose “ right now, may you lean into your own soul in these quiet moments when you’re stuck inside. in a world of uncertainty, look for the beauty case kenny “ realize that in this moment, you exist, and you cannot control life—you can only experience it. it’s okay to cry: working from home, homeschooling, and parenting during covid-19 kj parish “ it’s been all of two days since we officially started homeschooling our son, “m,” after a tornado and covid-19 teamed up to knock us on our collective asses like the legion of doom giving us all a bit of the… more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.