browse articles browse resources edx for business subscribe corporate learning articles powered by edx for business recent posts: bridging the skills gap for frontline employees your industry is evolving, your business needs are changing, and your talent pool is shrinking. with rapid innovation comes an ever expanding need to stay up to speed in areas that keep your business competitive, and nowhere is that more evident than in it management and computer science. even at the most junior, entry-level positions, there is a growing skills gap that makes it increasingly difficult to find qualified candidates, and even harder (and more expensive) to hire them. but what if the employees you need already exist among your workforce? they know your brand, are motivated to stay at your company, and want to play a larger role. armed with the ability to build the types of skills you're looking for, can this group provide a solution that’s more effective, timely, and affordable? read the article the boston globe forges a new tech talent pipeline with edx as digitization continues to transform companies across industries, organizations are finding new ways to grow and adapt their workforces. to source candidates with data, digital, and strategic skill sets, boston globe media partners (bgmp) is collaborating with edx to offer job interviews for select micromasters® program certificate holders for key roles with its the boston globe, boston.com, and stat brands. “digital transformation has fundamentally changed how media organizations operate. the boston globe recognizes the need to be forward-thinking and prepared to identify and capitalize on new opportunities and navigate the challenges of our industry,” said claudia henderson, chief human resources officer for boston globe media. learn more about how new england's leading media company is working with edx to identify and recruit new talent and drive the organization's digital transformation. read the article the future of workplace learning is modular digitization and automation continue to rapidly transform the needs of today’s workforce. your employees feel pressure to keep up, but continuously updating, diversifying, and building new skill sets is daunting and counters the traditional mental model of education. the pace of change is faster than ever while the skill sets that set companies and workers apart increasingly cannot be obtained through a traditional degree or career path. instead, today’s fastest-growing, most automation-resistant, and in-demand roles feature combinations of skills that never used to be found in the same job; they’re hybrid. read the article 3 ways to use e-learning to build a happier, more productive workplace in 2020 business leaders increasingly understand that supporting workforce wellbeing — happiness — is critical for both individual employees and the organization. balanced, inclusive companies see higher retention rates, lower absenteeism, increased innovation, higher quality of work, and other tangible benefits. read the article delivering learning at scale: insights from edx’s senior learning designer true, impactful online content is much more than a video recording of a lecture delivered to 30 in-person students. online learning is a unique environment with its own distinct strengths and opportunities for engagement. read the article next ▸ all posts browse resources: bridging the skills gap for frontline employees your industry is evolving, your business needs are changing, and your talent pool is shrinking. with rapid innovation comes an ever expanding need to stay up to speed in areas that keep your business competitive, and nowhere is that more evident than in it management and computer science. even at the most junior, entry-level positions, there is a growing skills gap that makes it increasingly difficult to find qualified candidates, and even harder (and more expensive) to hire them. but what if the employees you need already exist among your workforce? they know your brand, are motivated to stay at your company, and want to play a larger role. armed with the ability to build the types of skills you're looking for, can this group provide a solution that’s more effective, timely, and affordable? view this resource the boston globe forges a new tech talent pipeline with edx as digitization continues to transform companies across industries, organizations are finding new ways to grow and adapt their workforces. to source candidates with data, digital, and strategic skill sets, boston globe media partners (bgmp) is collaborating with edx to offer job interviews for select micromasters® program certificate holders for key roles with its the boston globe, boston.com, and stat brands. “digital transformation has fundamentally changed how media organizations operate. the boston globe recognizes the need to be forward-thinking and prepared to identify and capitalize on new opportunities and navigate the challenges of our industry,” said claudia henderson, chief human resources officer for boston globe media. learn more about how new england's leading media company is working with edx to identify and recruit new talent and drive the organization's digital transformation. view this resource the future of workplace learning is modular digitization and automation continue to rapidly transform the needs of today’s workforce. your employees feel pressure to keep up, but continuously updating, diversifying, and building new skill sets is daunting and counters the traditional mental model of education. the pace of change is faster than ever while the skill sets that set companies and workers apart increasingly cannot be obtained through a traditional degree or career path. instead, today’s fastest-growing, most automation-resistant, and in-demand roles feature combinations of skills that never used to be found in the same job; they’re hybrid. view this resource 3 ways to use e-learning to build a happier, more productive workplace in 2020 business leaders increasingly understand that supporting workforce wellbeing — happiness — is critical for both individual employees and the organization. balanced, inclusive companies see higher retention rates, lower absenteeism, increased innovation, higher quality of work, and other tangible benefits. view this resource delivering learning at scale: insights from edx’s senior learning designer true, impactful online content is much more than a video recording of a lecture delivered to 30 in-person students. online learning is a unique environment with its own distinct strengths and opportunities for engagement. view this resource next ▸ all resources filter posts: corporate learning (10) edx business insights (6) corporate training (3) company news (2) article (1) soft skills training (1) thought-leadsership (1) transform your workforce with edx for business stay updated on corporate learning insights & news © 2012–2020 edx inc. edx, open edx, and micromasters are registered trademarks of edx inc. | 粤icp备17044299号-2