statista logo statista.com statista.es statista.de statista.fr prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics all industries consumer goods & fmcg internet media & advertising retail & trade sports & recreation technology & telecommunications transportation & logistics travel, tourism & hospitality most-viewed statistics recent statistics popular statistics facebook: number of monthly active users worldwide 2008-2019 smartphone market share worldwide by vendor 2009-2019 number of apps available in leading app stores 2019 opec oil price annually 1960-2020 big mac index - global prices for a big mac 2020 topics topic overview smartphones - statistics & facts social media - statistics & facts top study view study industry overview reports dossiers get a quick quantitative overview of a topic outlook reports trend forecasts in the statista market outlooks surveys market insights from an expert and consumer perspective toplists company rankings for sales and analysis market studies complete markets in evaluation industry reports all key figures for an industry global business cities reports global business city rankings and key figures on cities brand reports insights and benchmarks on brands worldwide country reports countries and their potential further studies get a deeper insight into your topic outlooks consumer market outlook everything you need to know about consumer goods digital market outlook identify market potentials of the digital future mobility market outlook key topics in mobility country outlook key economic and social indicators technology market outlook new insights on most important technology markets tools publication finder find studies from all around the internet company database new sales and employment figures at a glance business plan export data sets for your business plan infographics services the statistics portal directly accessible data for 170 industries from 50 countries and over 1 mio. facts. about statista first steps and help centre tools and tutorials explained in our media centre research & analysis customized research & analysis projects: market research & market data modelling quick analysis with our professional research service: askstatista content & information design content marketing & information design for your projects: customized infographic service presentation design animated videos whitepapers, e-books, etc. more information ecommercedb.com kpis for more than 20,000 online stores rankings by country rankings by category go to database global survey new prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics popular statistics topics markets reports outlooks consumer market digital market mobility market country outlook technology market tools publication finder company database business plan export infographics services content & information design research projects ask statista global consumer survey de es fr does your company have statista access?hide check access plans for your company complete access to all features, including all statistics, studies, expert tools as well as full service & support. basic and premium statistics you get access to the basic and premium statistics stored in the international statistics database which are gathered by statista’s researchers from over 22,500 sources. forecasts with the 5-year market forecasts statista’s experts offer you relevant data on market trends of about 400 industries in around 40 countries. surveys you get access to selected results from exclusive up-to-date consumer and expert surveys prepared in statistics format. all surveys are conducted by statista’s experienced market and social researchers. statistics in pdf, xls, ppt, and png format download statistics and tables in the most commonly used formats – as a ready-to-go powerpoint slide to include into your presentation or as an excel file to use in your own calculations. full publication rights you are granted full publication rights to all data on the statista platform. use the high-quality graphics to enhance company presentations, press releases, or information materials with facts. automatic citation statista lets you export the reference for the original source and formats it automatically in accordance with five different academic style guides: apa, harvard, mla, chicago, and bluebook. dossiers statista offers over 4,500 statistics dossiers. these documents, compiled by statista’s researchers, combine the most relevant statistics on a certain topic. outlook reports with the outlook reports you get background information, trends, and forecasts for the future development of several consumer, digital, and mobility markets. surveys these include exclusive results from statista’s quantitative consumer & expert surveys in xls-format and reports on selected surveys. toplists toplists include all top companies in a given industry or region ranked by revenue. they provide contact information and the most important corporate key figures. industry reports statista’s analysts consolidate the most relevant industry information to provide important and interesting data on the status quo and trends within the industry, including forecasts. the high-quality diagrams and tables provide a quick overview of the industry. country reports the reports provide a quick insight into major country trends in order to assess the risks and opportunities relevant for international business. included are statistics, forecasts, survey results, and analyses. external studies statista’s studies database gives you access to over 32,000 selected studies. use the studies database for detailed research and to find extensive background information and analyses on your topic. global business cities reports city rankings and relevant key figures designed and researched by our team of city analysts regularly updated with the latest data detailed references for all key figures brand reports market shares, customer profiles, and customer journey conducted by our experienced market researchers regularly updated with recent survey data consumer market outlook the consumer market outlook presents the key performance indicators – sales, revenues and prices – of the most important consumer markets worldwide. digital market outlook the digital market outlook presents up-to-date figures on markets of the digital economy. the comparable key figures are based on extensive analyses of relevant indicators from the areas of society, economy, and technology. mobility market outlook the mobility market outlook presents the key figures from the world of automotive and mobility – sales, revenues, prices, and brands. country outlook the country outlook presents historical data and forecasts on a country´s economy, society, labor force, business environment as well as digital economy and public sector. more than 70 key performance indicators are shown for over 150 countries globally. technology market outlook the technology market outlook presents up-to-date figures on most important technology markets. advertising & media outlook understand the wide-ranging advertising and media world and identify its future potential business plan export would you like to create a business plan but lack a solid foundation of data? statista helps you to do so in just 3 steps! publication finder the publication finder lets you quickly and easily find publications on your research topic. search over 1,000,000 studies, reports, and other documents from all over the web. company database the company database provides company-relevant information on over 40,000 stock-listed and privately owned companies in more than 100 countries and territories worldwide. it combines third-party data on the largest publicly listed companies worldwide and data on leading private companies gathered by an international team of researchers. global consumer survey the statista global consumer survey offers a global perspective on consumption and media usage, covering the offline and online world of the consumer. 50+ topics and industries, 700,000 consumers from 55 countries, 6,500 brands. expert tool for online diy analyses. customized target groups use a set of dimensions including demographics, living situation, internet & media usage, attitudes & values, and typologies to create customized target groups for analysis. in addition to the survey data, the global consumer survey contains 100+ additional characteristics. do-it-yourself analyses access the global consumer survey via an interactive online evaluation tool: carry out your own analyses and select your own criteria to create cross tables and customize target groups. maximum number of users this is the number of available licenses per workstation. direct access for all employees with an enterprise account statista is accessible through your company’s ip range. as soon as statista is accessed from a workstation within the company all features of the portal become automatically available for your research. seamless access for all employees with an enterprise account statista is accessible through the widely spread standard saml 2.0 for single sign-on applications. once configured, employees will be able to log-in to statista with the account credentials they already use within the company. research service in case you ever have any content-related questions or need additional information, statista’s expert team will research the data in question according to your request. usage reporting statista provides you with an overview of the usage of your account. marketing support statista supports you in promoting the use of the statista platform at your organization. trainings (product & expert) these on-site trainings are tailored to your needs and, moreover, provide you with an overview of new functions. corporate identity options these options include the creation and modification of a powerpoint template in your individual corporate design so that you can directly download statistics that comply with your ci guidelines. moreover, the entire statista platform can be customized according to your ci including colors and your logo. premium account $708 usd per year (billed annually) order corporate account$8,400 usd per year (billed annually) order now eur (€)gbp (£) €7,500 for other currencies please contact sales. online orders in usd only £6,600 for other currencies please contact sales. online orders in usd only unlock all features enterprise account on requestsend inquiry statistics statistics limited(4) forecasts & surveys download formats publication rights automatic citation studies & reports dossiers statista studies (3) (3) industry & country reports external studies global business cities reports brand reports expert tools consumer market outlook (2) digital market outlook (2) mobility market outlook (2) country outlook (2) technology market outlook (2) advertising & media outlook (2) business plan export publication finder company database upon request upon request global survey new global consumer survey customized target groups do-it-yourself analyses access maximum number of users 1 by arrangement entire company access via ip saml 2.0 single sign-on service & support standard full support research service limited(2) unlimited usage reporting 1× / year 1× / quarter marketing support trainings (product & expert) corporate identity options order order now send inquiry contact us for personal advice * prices do not include sales tax. (1) minimum term of 12 months; maximum term of 24 months (2) for subscribers only (3) annual statista r&a studies are not included in this account. in particular, this comprises the following studies: arbeitgeber-studie, online-shop-studie, studie „stromkunden und –anbieter“, studie „gaskunden und – anbieter“, e-commerce markt deutschland, e-commerce-markt österreich/schweiz, benchmark studie service-apps, benchmark studie – digitaler kundendialog, etude: les meilleurs employeurs en france, report: employers in the u.s., report: employers in the uk, internet-markt deutschland. (4) 12 months of free access and download rights to 1,000 premium statistics of the english database statista's designs are beautiful, informative and accurate. we have come to rely on them to illustrate the technology and business news of the day. matt silverman, editorial director, mashable i think of statista as google for researchers. statista provides you with the information you search for right away. dr. horst stipp, evp, research & innovation, advertising research foundation statista is a great combination of automation and high touch. mark truss, global director of brand intelligence, j. walter thompson my work would be impossible without statista. marco rodzynek, ceo noah conference leading companies trust statista: google samsung unilever procter and gamble telekom customized services what we offer price ppt customization (one-time setup) up to $1,950 ppt customization (fitting) $110 / hour full customization of company's corporate identity $950 any more questions? get in touch with us quickly and easily. we are happy to help! do you still have questions? feel free to contact us anytime using our contact form or visit our faq page. contact esther shaulova operations manager support@statista.com +1 (212) 419-5770 mon - fri, 9am - 6pm, est contact (europe) lodovica biagi director of operations eu.support@statista.com +44 (0)20 8189 7000 mon - fri, 9:30am - 5pm, gmt contact (asia) ziyan zhang customer relations asia.support@statista.com +91 80 49016428 mon - fri, 11:30am - 10pm, ist we use cookies to personalize contents and ads, offer social media features, and analyze access to our website. in your browser settings you can configure or disable this, respectively, and can delete any already placed cookies. for details, please see your browser’s help section (by pressing f1). please see our privacy statement for details about how we use data.ok home about statista career contact help & faq report bug our media partners privacy imprint menu prices & access popular statistics industries infographics content & design projects research projects askstatista statista.de statista.es statista.fr