couple money guide menu search social media start here all about couple money couple money podcast budgeting as a couple family and finances best money tools for couples free money toolkit for couples jumpstart your marriage and your money book dump debt together guide marriage and money tip show pay off debt faster free money guides & more free money toolkit for couples stop fighting about money side hustle launch guide boost your savings essential things you need to know about wills and estate planning by elle martinez march 25, 2020 0 no one likes to think about it, but preparing for the unexpected can give you some peace of mind now and protect your loved ones later! this is the essential […] 5 key tips to reprioritize your money through tough times by elle martinez march 20, 2020 0 while things are really fluid right now and some big decisions are still up in the air, it’s important to review and if necessary reprioritize things with your finances. today […] how to loan money to family (and not regret it) by elle martinez march 18, 2020 0 one of the stickiest situations with couples is dealing with lending money to family. find out different ways you can help without putting your own finances in jeopardy! should we […] digital banking and finances for couples by elle martinez march 11, 2020 0 learn how you can stay on top of your money with some of the best apps while also protecting your finances, privacy, and data! finding the best money apps for […] how to build a profitable side hustle by elle martinez march 4, 2020 0 carla titus shares the realities of running a profitable business from home and how she and her husband created a system that fits their goals and family life! the realities […] how to boost your bank account with side hustles by elle martinez march 2, 2020 0 as wonderful as the idea of a side hustle is, the toughest part is trying to figure out which is the best fit for you. learn how to pick the […] how to work as a team when you’re financial opposites by elle martinez february 26, 2020 0 most couples marry their financial opposite, which can be a blessing or a recipe for disaster. learn how you two can become a team and create a budget and money […] how to build wealth together by elle martinez february 21, 2020 5 one of the most helpful things the two of you can do to strengthen your marriage and finances is to sit down and be open with one another about your money. […] 1 2 3 … 132 next thank you to our sponsor money tools we love free & easy way to track money: personal capital grow your stash faster: high yield savings with cit bank free 401(k) analysis: blooom easy investing: vanguard automatic investing: vanguard automatic saving: qapital best online banks for joint accounts looking to get the most out of your money? these online banks offer fantastic rates for savings and checking! grow your money faster hot posts best joint checking and savings accounts how to budget on a teacher's salary get more money in your paycheck: calculate your w-4 withholding working through illness and financial lows to abundant permaculture with justin and rebekah rhodes how to quickly create your retirement plan with spreadsheets why is my bank's bill pay so slow? lynda.com review – is it worth subscribing? stockpile hacks: what not to include how to manage loans to friends with microsoft excel stop dieting. get life long results! join the conversation join the conversation about couple money hi, i'm elle martinez, creator of couple money. i started this site and podcast to help spouses get on the same page, pay off their debt faster, and build their marriage and wealth together! catch up: couple money podcast marriage and money tips couple money articles best money apps and more for couples connect with me: email disclaimer – please read! i’m not a financial professional so please take my advice as opinion. check out resources i share so you two can sit down and discuss your unique circumstances. standard disclosure: in order for me to support my blogging activities, i may receive monetary compensation or other types of remuneration for my endorsement, recommendation, testimonial and/or link to any products or services from this blog. couple money info advertising privacy policy what couple money's about archives write for couple money