find a course sign up coursera blog degrees for business for educators product news stories coursera together: free online learning during covid-19 march 25, 2020 170 share share on facebook share share on twittertweet share on linkedin share send email mail coursera together: free online learning & community resources during covid-19 as each of us navigates the impact of covid-19 on our lives, we hope that you can find comfort in the strength of the coursera community. know that you’re not alone, and we’re here to help in any way that we can. during this time, we remain as passionate as ever about helping you learn, grow, and connect with learners and educators around the world. both here and on our social media channels we’ll continue sharing uplifting stories, new ways to learn, and courses we think you’ll love. to help our community during this critical time, we’re launching new, free resources, as well as surfacing interesting course collections, community discussions, and expert interviews. we’ll continue to update this list with new resources as we have them—stay tuned! free courses | course collections | community discussions | expert interviews | more resources learn something new with a free course starting today, we’re making a selection of courses completely free for anyone, anywhere so it’s easier to keep learning. to get started, click a link below—your free discount will be applied at checkout. we’re planning to make this offer available through may 31, 2020, with more details available in the links below. free online courses for mental health and well-being: from de-mystifying mindfulness to understanding the science of happiness, we’ve collected top wellness courses to help you prioritize mental health and well-being during these uncertain times. free online courses for high school students: from calculus to guitar for beginners, we’ve rounded up courses to help high school students everywhere keep learning. free online courses for college students: from preparing for an interview to learning data science, we’ve collected courses to make it easier to keep learning. free online courses for career development: from creative problem solving to leading the company of the future, we identified courses to help everyone navigate the changing world of work. free online courses for building your cloud technology career: from machine learning to cloud computing, we’ve curated a set of courses to help you grow your career in an increasingly digital world. free online courses for understanding public health: from the science behind covid-19 to communicating during global emergencies, we’re making popular public health courses completely free. explore a new interest, career, or hobby with one of these collections there are also hundreds of other opportunities to learn everything from storytelling to how the universe was formed! uncover a new favorite course in one of these popular collections. many of these courses are free to audit – or you can choose to pay to access additional quizzes, projects, and a shareable certificate when you complete. take the first step in exploring a new career path with learning programs that can help you build skills in fields like information technology, healthcare, graphic design, marketing, and more. see what data science is all about with these beginner and intermediate level courses that focus on strengthening your mathematical and statistical foundations. hone important soft skills like effective communication and conflict resolution to achieve your personal and professional goals. ready, player one? break into the gaming industry with courses on ar/vr and game design. discover the wonders of the animal kingdom through these courses on understanding animal care, behavior, cognition, and origins. learn about the building blocks of life with courses on evolution, genetics, and the formation of the universe. study modern and classical poetry from different cultures and learn to write your own. explore museums from the comfort of home with virtual tours offered through courses from the museum of modern art and the american museum of natural history. breaking news! develop skills in journalism to help tell your unique story. unleash your inner artist by diving into the world of photography, writing, filmography, and more. explore the complexities of the human brain with courses on neurobiology and the mechanisms behind decision making. share advice and discover resources in the coursera community the coursera community is a great place to connect with learners around the world to share advice, ask questions, and find inspiration. we’ve collected a few of the conversations that our community is using to navigate this critical time together: if you have questions regarding the outbreak, you can find additional resources from world-renowned public health experts in coursera’s partner community. if you or someone you know is learning online for the first time: you can share these 8 tips from our teaching & learning team. if you’re looking for ways to keep learning with your kids: connect with parents around the world and exchange favorite resources. if, like coursera, you and your team are shifting to remote work: you can join others in our community to discuss strategies and share advice. if you’re looking for advice about moving in-person learning online: you can reference these best practices from our teaching & learning team. get up to speed on a new topic with an expert from motivational tips to help you achieve your goals to discussions on how to decide which programming language to learn, we’ve been talking with experts in the field to get the latest research and best advice. explore one of our recent conversations to see if it sparks a new idea, a new perspective, a new question, or a new interest. find all of our 20 minute conversations here or jump into some of our favorites below: dr. steve joordens of the university of toronto, scarborough on tips to reduce anxiety during covid-19 dr. laurie santos of yale university on why you should call a friend today dr. chuck severance of the university of michigan on whether you should learn python or javascript as your first language are you a student impacted by covid-19? on march 12, we launched a global effort to provide free access to coursera for colleges and universities impacted by the coronavirus outbreak. if you are a student at a college or university that has been impacted, or you know someone who is, ask a faculty member, administrator, or staff member to sign up. now more than ever, we are grateful to our global community of educators and learners who continue to support and learn from each other. we invite you to share your questions, ideas, and comments with the community and hope that coursera can serve you and those you love during these difficult times. we’re in this together and we’ll get through this together. 170 share share on facebook share share on twittertweet share on linkedin share send email mail related articles building practical skills through hands-on projects novartis extends coursera to friends and family in response to covid-19 welcoming dr. betty vandenbosch as our new chief content officer tagged in: all coursera provides universal access to the world’s best education, partnering with top universities and organizations to offer courses online. © 2020 coursera inc. all rights reserved. coursera about leadership careers catalog professional certificates mastertrack™ certificates degrees for enterprise for campus for government community learners partners developers beta testers translators tech blog connect blog facebook linkedin twitter instagram more terms privacy help accessibility press contact directory affiliates