find a course sign up coursera blog degrees for business for educators product news stories posts tagged in coursera for business novartis extends coursera to friends and family in response to covid-19 march 27, 2020 by leah belsky, chief enterprise officer, coursera the spread of coronavirus (covid-19) has profoundly affected the way companies operate. in a matter of days, organizations around the globe have transitioned millions of employees to remote working to keep their community safe. the well-being of employees remains the utmost priority, and ensuring employees stay engaged while… coursera for business q1 coursera for business quarterly product release march 25, 2020 by shwetabh mittal, head of product & corporate strategy we're excited to share our newest features as part of our q1 product release. these features provide you with valuable data and insights to assess the performance of your learning program and the program management tools to engage with your learners at scale. these features include: … coursera for business what’s new on coursera for business – february 2020 march 10, 2020 by kyle clark, senior skills transformation consultant february was a special month at coursera: we officially launched rhyme projects for enterprise. coursera acquired rhyme softworks last year to augment our abilities to create and share hand-on projects with learners. projects allow learners to work on a task in their browser while following a self-paced or… coursera for business what’s new on coursera for business – january 2020 february 13, 2020 by kyle clark, senior skills transformation consultant 2020 is already proving to be an exciting year for skill development on coursera. our university and industry partners launched over 60 courses in january - an average of 2 courses per day. our new courses range in topic from it automation and feature engineering to visual analytics,… coursera for business q&a with shira lee katz, head of content strategy at coursera january 23, 2020 1. tell us about yourself and your experience. after 20 years of work (and play) in a variety of fields—content strategy, learning, kids, and more—one thing i can say is that anywhere, anytime learning is powerful. “anywhere, anytime learning” is the notion that learning isn’t confined to the four walls of a classroom. rather, it… coursera for business welcoming zac rule and jp moran to coursera’s enterprise leadership team january 16, 2020 by leah belsky, chief enterprise officer, coursera due to the rapid pace of technology advancement, companies, jobs, and the skills needed to compete are at risk of being disrupted. as a result, institutions can no longer be complacent about skills capital; companies, governments, and universities must come together to reskill and upskill the global workforce.… coursera for business coursera provides universal access to the world’s best education, partnering with top universities and organizations to offer courses online. © 2020 coursera inc. all rights reserved. coursera about leadership careers catalog professional certificates mastertrack™ certificates degrees for enterprise for campus for government community learners partners developers beta testers translators tech blog connect blog facebook linkedin twitter instagram more terms privacy help accessibility press contact directory affiliates