find a course sign up coursera blog degrees for business for educators product news stories coursera stories coursera stories millions of learners from around the world have started, switched, or advanced their careers with help from coursera. here are just a few of their inspiring stories. category all categories data science computer science business personal development arts & humanities career path all career paths career advancers career switchers career starters location all locations africa asia australia europe north america south america search new skills, new confidence, and a new data science careerwhen kathleen decided to pursue a career in data science, she needed a flexible way to gain experience and fill key gaps in her skill set. coursera was the perfect partner in her journey. read more saving a struggling businessthe wharton school’s introduction to operations management course helped australian learner tri suseno save his struggling business - and he’s since completed more than 20 other courses on coursera. read more building a tea company with courserawhen richard heard about coursera, he saw an opportunity to equip himself and his team with the skills they needed to run a successful company. watch the video python skill builder“for my job interview, when i mentioned that i knew python, the interviewer was surprised because its one of the least known and taught computer languages here. so it gave me an edge over the others." read subhradeep's story building a new career in data sciencerealizing that she needed to take her future into her own hands, charlotte joined coursera and enrolled in a data analysis course from johns hopkins university. watch the video took a specialization, got a job at blackberryduring an in-person interview, srikanth was directly asked “how do you keep your skills up to date?” his answer was coursera. read more finding flexibility and confidence in a content strategy careerwhen limari became a mother, she knew she needed to rethink her career so that she could spend time with her son. on a friend’s recommendation, she joined coursera. watch the video fighting sexual abuse with social psychologybalesh jindal, a physician in a rural area near new delhi, india, won the grand prize for her efforts to address sexual violence in her community. watch the video coursera provides universal access to the world’s best education, partnering with top universities and organizations to offer courses online. © 2020 coursera inc. all rights reserved. coursera about leadership careers catalog professional certificates mastertrack™ certificates degrees for enterprise for campus for government community learners partners developers beta testers translators tech blog connect blog facebook linkedin twitter instagram more terms privacy help accessibility press contact directory affiliates