toggle navigation create and go home all courses login course roadmap not sure which blogging course is right for you? this roadmap will help you decide! feeling a little confused about which course you should start with? we've got you! before we get into the details, please keep in mind that our courses were designed to be taken in a certain order. we'll outline that order first, and then you can check out the roadmap and other information on this page for additional details! launch your blog biz pinterest traffic avalanche six-figure blogger the courses are in order from brand new blogger to experienced blogger. got it? great! check out the roadmap below! still not sure? we've written out some additional details from the steps outlined above... have you started a blog yet? no: launch your blog biz -- this course will teach you everything you need to know about getting started, including how to navigate wordpress, design your blog with a theme, write your first few blog posts, set up your email list, start getting visitors and traffic to your blog, and start making your first $1,000+ with your blog! yes: move on to the next question! have you started driving traffic to your blog yet? no: launch your blog biz -- this course will teach you how to start getting visitors to your blog and how to begin monetizing it using affiliate marketing and other awesomesauce strategies. yes: pinterest traffic avalanche -- this is our course on driving traffic to your blog with pinterest. it's includes everything from how to get started to our most advanced strategies for driving tons of free traffic to your blog. what's your experience level with pinterest? beginner: pinterest traffic avalanche -- this is our course on driving traffic to your blog with pinterest. it's includes everything from how to get started to our most advanced strategies for driving tons of free traffic to your blog. intermediate to advanced: you have two choices here, and we're going to explain them both. pinterest traffic avalanche -- this is a difficult question to answer because many pinterest users don't consider themselves to be "beginners," but they also aren't quite sure if they are intermediate or advanced either. this leaves a lot of gray area. we will tell you that while this course does include advanced strategies, the majority of the course was written with the beginner in mind. you'll find that most pinterest courses are written this way because it's just too difficult to ascertain what more advanced users "know and don't know." this course is not for you if you already "know everything" and are just looking for the "golden nugget" of information that is going to skyrocket your traffic. - p.s. it doesn't exist and if it did, true marketers probably wouldn't share it anyway! ;) -- bottom line: you have think in terms of roi and investments. it's not about the value of each individual lesson. it's about whether the course will help you make your money back and more. if you believe that it can, give it a go! have you started monetizing your blog yet? no: six-figure blogger – this course will help you get started with affiliate marketing and selling affiliate products with your email list. it will also teach you how to create your own digital products and service (ebooks and courses) when the time is right – and how to sell those products. this is our most advanced course and is not recommended for those that haven't started driving traffic to their blog or begun building an email list. please see above if you have not reached this level yet. yes: six-figure blogger – this is our most advanced monetization course and aside from creating your own products, it will teach you a lot about how to sell those products -- via sales funnels, designing sales pages, and pre-sale content to help you sell. we've had tons of people tell us that the information on sales and marketing alone pays for the course price. so, even if you’ve got some experience selling products, the lessons on designing sales pages and marketing your products via email funnels should be able to help you scale your income! additional info about the courses launch your blog this course was designed for new bloggers and is all about helping you learn wordpress, design your blog with a theme, write your first few blog posts, and more! after launching your blog, you will also learn how to begin getting visitors to your new blog and how to monetize it with affiliate marketing and other beginner strategies. it will also teach you how to begin growing your email list and selling affiliate products to your audience read more about launch your blog biz! pinterest traffic avalanche this course is all about driving traffic to your blog with pinterest! this course was made for bloggers and is not ideal for those with a purely ecommerce website. while it does have strategies that will help you with email collection, it's not about monetization at all. we have other courses for that! read more about pinterest traffic avalanche! six-figure blogger we will teach you how to create your own digital products and services, create email funnels, sales pages, and pre-sale content to help you sell those products, and more! this is how you truly scale the income that you are already making on your blog. this is our most advanced course and is not recommended for those that haven't started driving traffic to their blog or begun building an email list. read more about six-figure blogger! pro blogger bundle this is simply a bundle of all four of the above blogging courses at a big discount! if you're ready to dive in with all of the information and know there is no turning back for you, the discount here will help you save some money along the way! read more about the pro blogger bundle! still not sure? please feel free to send us an email at [email protected] and we'll do our best to help you decide! © create and go 2020 terms of use privacy policy refund policy create and go home affiliates