skip to content college info geek courses menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search courses want to be less stressed and more productive? we’ve partnered with skillshare to create two original courses that can help you do just that. these courses will teach you: why most productivity systems fail (and how to make sure yours doesn’t) how to use a to-do list to keep track of everything you have going on how to set up your calendar so that you’re never late again why strong habits are the foundation of a better life if that’s not enough, both classes are free to take with a skillshare membership. don’t already have a skillshare membership? no problem. if you click either of the buttons below, you’ll get a free 2-month trial. that’s plenty of time to take both courses (and many others!) completely for free. productivity essentials: create a system that works with a proper productivity system, nothing ever slips through the cracks. in just one hour, you'll learn how to set up your to-do list, calendar, note-taking system, file management, and more — the smart way. become more productive real productivity: how to build habits that last building habits isn’t just about discipline; there are real-world steps you can take to set yourself up for success! in this course, you'll learn how to set realistic goals, handle failure without giving up, and get going on the habits you want in your life. build lasting habits more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.