home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. we and the color home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style home design covid-19 quarantine: what to do to stay creatively motivated during isolation covid-19 quarantine: what to do to stay creatively motivated design graphic design covid-19 quarantine: what to do to stay creatively motivated during isolation reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email five things graphic designers can do to stay creative despite covid-19 quarantine. the pandemic of the coronavirus (covid-19) continues to spread exponentially worldwide and the motto is “stay at home” but being isolated can make it quite difficult for graphic designers to stay creatively motivated. there is currently a lack of communication with other creatives or clients, many design projects are canceled or on hold, and the daily news cover only one topic, the worldwide spread of the coronavirus (covid-19). if you are one of these affected designers that suffer from isolation during the covid-19 quarantine, here are five tips on what you can do to stay creative. 1st: challenge yourself on a daily basis to stay creatively motivated. during the past years, we have featured many of these daily projects started by creatives from around the globe to challenge their own creativity and improve their design skills. our daily readers may remember vasjen katro‘s daily poster project called baugasm. if you don’t have many projects to work on at the moment, you should probably start such a self-initiated project. it can be fun to work on something personal without the influence of clients. baugasm posters by vasjen katro. 2nd: contribute to projects such as 36 days of type from march 2 to april 8 every graphic designer, illustrator or digital artist is invited to contribute to 36 days of type to share their own creative take on the letterforms and share it with the world. the 2020 edition is already in full swing, but if you have some free capacity, you will surely manage to get in. 36 days of type contribution from 2018 by charlie davis. 3rd: monetize your creativity despite missing jobs. all the motivation is gone if you don’t have any paid work to do. during the pandemic of covid-19, many businesses are closed for an indefinite period of time and that’s why many freelance designers currently have no ongoing projects and money is running out. but there is another way of monetizing creativity—you can become a contributor to platforms such as adobe stock, istock by getty images, shutterstock, creative market, envato elements or youworkforthem to sell and license your work online. the best websites to download professional stock graphics. 4th: follow the best graphic design blogs and social media channels. only a few months ago, we featured a hand-picked selection of the 15 best graphic design blogs as well as a selection of outstanding graphic designers and leading design studios on instagram. just follow these online publications and creatives to stay focused, creative, and motivated during the covid-19 quarantine. the best graphic design blogs in 2020. 5th: walk through your favorite museums virtually. it’s no secret that art is a great source of inspiration even for contemporary designers. but what to do if all museums are closed? don’t worry, many world-class museums offer virtual tours including new york’s moma, the j. paul getty museum in los angeles, tate britain in london, the art institute of chicago, the metropolitan museum of art in new york, musée d’orsay in paris or new york’s guggenheim museum, just to name a few. that was our list of five things graphic designers can do to stay creative despite covid-19 quarantine. stay motivated, stay healthy, and most importantly stay at home! subscribe to our newsletter! by continuing, you accept the privacy policy 5/5 (5) please rate this article. rate here: tags coronavirus covid-19 creative graphic design quarantine stay at home reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email dirk petzold of course, we are on instagram: @weandthecolor :) related articlesmore from author branding bloom branding by graphic design studio violaine & jeremy design meltdown flags — raising awareness of global warming branding flower poster designs by xavier esclusa trias branding pernix consulting—stationery design by monotypo studio branding branding & graphic design by darling visual communications for twig learning center branding scale ai branding by creative agency sid lee branding aurora lifestyle magazine template for adobe indesign books design{h}ers: a celebration of women in design today branding minimalist brand guidelines template leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. current ye@r * leave this field empty email by continuing, you accept the privacy policy editor picks 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 top graphic designers on instagram to follow for creative inspiration popular posts central park infrared/aerochrome photos i am an actor by franck bohbot lane coder – underwater photography popular category design4038 graphic design2565 recommendations1479 branding1427 illustration1384 fonts895 photography892 art880 templates548 about us we and the color is a web magazine for your daily art and design inspiration. we feature outstanding projects of various creative fields. in addition, you can find trendy graphics, templates, and fonts for download. read more here. contact us: meandyou@weandthecolor.com follow us legal information privacy advertisement © copyright 2019 we and the color – all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. by continuing, you are agreeing to our terms of use.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled