× view subscriptions the star digital access newsstand sms services log in manage profile change password manage subscription manage billing info transaction history manage for you manage bookmarks package & pricing faqs log out toggle navigation #juststayat for you news latest nation asean+ world environment in other media true or not focus business news smebiz market watch bursa overview market movers financial results dividends bonus ipo unit trust exchange rates my portfolio sport football golf badminton tennis motorsport community sports other sports say what metro metro news views lifestyle entertainment & style people & living health & family travel & culture food food news eating out kuali tech education news courses opinion columnists letters videos more photos classifieds events starcherish.com subscriptions the star digital access newsstand sms services log in manage profile change password manage subscription manage billing info transaction history manage for you manage bookmarks package & pricing faqs log out home for you news latest nation asean+ world environment in other media true or not focus business news starbiz premium smebiz unit trust exchange rates my portfolio market watch bursa overview market movers financial results dividends bonus ipo sport football golf badminton tennis motorsport community sports other sport say what metro metro news views lifestyle entertainment & style people & living health & family travel & culture food food news eating out kuali tech education news courses opinion columnists letters videos more photos starcherish.com classifieds events topics | covid-19: bosses panic-buy spy software to keep tabs on remote workers internet friday, 27 mar 2020 8:30 pm myt by polly mosendz and anders melin with so many people working remotely because of the coronavirus, surveillance software is flying off the virtual shelves. — dpa the email came from the boss. we’re watching you, it told axos financial inc employees working from home. we’re capturing your keystrokes. we’re logging the websites you visit. every 10 minutes or so, we’re taking a screen shot. so get to work – or face the consequences. "we have seen individuals taking unfair advantage of flexible work arrangements” by essentially taking vacations, gregory garrabrants, the online bank’s chief executive officer, wrote in the march 16 message reviewed by bloomberg news. if daily tasks aren’t completed, workers "will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.” straight-up big brother, perhaps, but it’s perfectly legal for businesses to keep an unblinking eye on employees as long as they disclose they’re doing it. of course, digital surveillance has been used for years on office desktops, yet it seems a violation of privacy to a lot of workers when they’re required to have software on their computers that tracks their every move in their own homes. workers at various companies have complained of excesses, but many of them are new to telecommuting, with its temptations of a midday nap or the demands of children out of school. employers justify going full orwell by saying that monitoring curbs security breaches, which can be expensive, and helps keep the wheels of commerce turning. with so many people working remotely because of the coronavirus, surveillance software is flying off the virtual shelves. "companies have been scrambling,” said brad miller, ceo of surveillance-software maker interguard. "they’re trying to allow their employees to work from home but trying to maintain a level of security and productivity.” axos spokesman gregory frost said in a statement that "the enhanced monitoring of at-home employees we implemented will ensure that those members of our workforce who work from home will continue” to meet quality and productivity standards that are expected from all workers. frost declined to comment on whether garrabrants, one of america’s top-paid bank ceos in 2018, is subject to the same monitoring when he works from home. along with interguard, software makers include time doctor, teramind, vericlock, inneractiv, activtrak and hubstaff. all provide a combination of screen monitoring and productivity metrics, such as number of emails sent, to reassure managers that their charges are doing their jobs. activtrak’s inbound requests have tripled in recent weeks, according to ceo rita selvaggi. teramind has seen a similar increase, said eli sutton, vice president of global operations. jim mazotas, inneractive’s founder, said phones have been ringing off the hook. managers using interguard’s software can be notified if an employee does a combination of worrisome behaviors, such as printing both a confidential client list and a resume, an indication that someone is quitting and taking their book of business with them. "it’s not because of lack of trust,” miller said, who compared the software to banks using security cameras. "it’s because it’s imprudent not to do it.” the software can also be a way for employers to grant more flexibility to workers to fit their jobs around other parts of their lives. it may also let managers spot areas that are overstaffed or where they may need additional hands. "i can honestly say, as a hubstaff user, that i actually like the monitoring and productivity features. i promise,” said courtney cavey, the firm’s chief marketing officer. "so my personal advice is to use it as an advantage, as a way to prove to your manager that you’re capable of working autonomously.” hubstaff allows users to view their activity range and aim to beat it, cavey said. most monitoring can be customized, so not all employees are tracked in the same way. employers go too far if their monitoring software remains active outside work hours, according to stacy hawkins, a professor at rutgers law school. workers air their grievances on forums such as codeahoy, presumably using devices not being watched by their bosses. "i’ve heard from multiple people whose employers have asked them to stay logged into a video call all day while they work,” said alison green, founder of the workplace-advice website ask a manager. "in some cases, they’re told it’s so they can all talk throughout the day if questions come up, but in others, there’s no pretense that it’s for anything other than monitoring people to ensure they’re working.” other managers take a more low-tech approach, insisting on constant status updates, green said. "how these managers are going to get anything done themselves in the midst of all these updates is another question,” she said. employers so worried about workers’ every moves might have a bigger issue to deal with, said sutton of software maker teramind. "it’s not about spying on the user,” sutton said. "if you hired them, you should trust them. if you don’t, they have no reason to be part of the organisation.” – bloomberg article type: metered user type: anonymous web user status: campaign id: 18 cxense type: free user access status: 3 tags / keywords: spy software , work from home topic: internet covid-19 watch technology what do you think of this article? it is insightful not in my interest 91% readers found this article insightful across the star online {{item['v1 header']}} {{item['v1 body']}} {{item['v2 header']}} site map home news business sport metro lifestyle food tech education opinion subscriptions the star newspaper other publications other editions epaper sms services advertising view our rate card company info about us job opportunities investor relations help contact us faqs policies privacy statement terms & conditions our sites mystarjob.com carsifu starproperty ibilik r.age mstar kuali thestartv.com starcherish.com kuntum connect with us content partner our radio stations video on demand site map home news business sport metro lifestyle food tech education opinion subscriptions the star newspaper starbiz premium other publications other editions epaper sms services company info about us job opportunities investor relations help contact us faqs advertising view our rate card policies privacy statement terms & conditions our network sites star2.com mystarjob.com carsifu starproperty propwall ibilik r.age mstar kuali thestartv.com starcherish.com kuntum dimsum suria 988 social media facebook twitter copyright © 1995- star media group berhad (10894d) best viewed on chrome browsers. life inspired has a chic new look 2020 is all about change, and life inspired did just that with a fresh makeover! this month, we speak to 3 female icons about empowerment and more - read it for free this week. download now thank you for downloading. we hope you enjoy this feature!didn't work? try downloading again.