covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational - smartsites think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 company news covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational march 19, 2020march 19, 2020 chad faith content manager the world health organization (who) has declared covid-19 a pandemic on march 11, 2020. over 110 countries and territories across the globe have been affected by the spread of the coronavirus disease. because this crisis has touched every industry in the country, every sector and individual must be vigilant in this fight to ensure safety for all. while smartsites is concerned with the unprecedented global challenges caused by the coronavirus (covid-19), we wish to assure all clients and employees that your health and safety is our highest priority during this time of uncertainty. our company is taking strict precautionary measures to ensure that our office is appropriately minimizing risks as much as possible. in addition, smartsites’ leadership team is constantly monitoring the guidance from local, national, and global health organizations. our message to all team members our team members at the corporate office are given the option to work from home. we have implemented a temporary stoppage of in-person meetings and advise against any non-essential company travel until further notice. rest assured that our leadership team will continue to monitor the changing environment and provide prompt updates on business practices and policies accordingly. for your and others’ safety, we recommend that team members also practice social distancing to help slow or stop the spread of infectious diseases. reducing contact between you and other people is of the highest importance due to the infectious nature of covid-19. this virus is known to be spread by: touching one’s face or mouth after physical contact with surfaces or objects (e.g., tables or door handles) that were contaminated from a cough or sneeze from an individual with a confirmed infection. direct close contact with individuals while they are ill or in the 24 hours before their covid-19 symptoms appeared. the more space there is between you and others, the harder it is for the virus to spread. our message to all valued clients at smartsites, we have seen an increase in clients contacting us for advice on how to adapt their marketing efforts across digital channels, how to maximize their budgets, and more. to mitigate the negative impacts of these challenging times, our team continues to provide a solid support system to address all of our clients’ concerns and inquiries. because smartsites continues to work remotely, we are available during our regular business hours to work on and manage all active projects. as an alternative to in-person meetings, clients can contact our team members via phone call (201-448-9010) and google hangouts without hassle. smartsites has forwarded our office lines directly to team members who have chosen to work remotely. feel free to use the same extensions that were originally provided to you. for google hangouts, our team members can provide real-time assistance with any given task through the screenshare function. to do so, project managers will send clients a secure link to join a call prior to their scheduled online meetings. smartsites would like to once again assure all clients that you will continue to receive excellent and uninterrupted service. you can rely on us for all your digital marketing needs. we wish good health to you and your loved ones. for more information about the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19), you can refer to cdc’s situation summary. related posts robert l promotions takes branded promotion to the next level with new magento website smartsites ranks #2 in agency spotter’s 2019 top 20 web design agencies report smartsites announces empact 100 showcase nomination smartsites celebrates 3 consecutive years on the inc. 5000 list get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha phone this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: blog company news covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect