/ submit / search / store / menu blog : show me the posts forums : but read the community guidelines shop : a directory of wonderful products about us : editors, contributors and staff contact us : get satisfaction advertise here : thank you for not blocking ours privacy policy : what we do with data you generate terms of service : what you agree to follow us twitter / facebook / rss david pescovitz / 8:48 am fri coyotes on the streets of san francisco la espectacular imagen de un coyote sobre el puente golden gate, en san francisco. la llegada de animales salvajes a las ciudades desiertas es un hecho #covid2019 #quedateentucasa #covid19 #lugaresymás pic.twitter.com/7rtpkbt7w2 — lugares y más (@_lugaresymas) march 25, 2020 while coyotes are occasionally spotted in san francisco's parks, the shelter-in-place mandate has seemingly made the beautiful animals more comfortable wandering around the mostly empty city. from sfgate: there has been an increase in coyotes in the city over recent years. in february kqed reported that they were thought to be recolonizing the places they used to inhabit abundantly after being nearly wiped out through poisoning and hunting from the '40s onwards. after years of zero sightings in san francisco, a coyote was seen in the presidio in 2002, thought to have been brought over from a trapper in the north bay or possibly even making its way alone over the golden gate bridge. since then numbers have continued to rise. coyote on the streets of san francisco during the coronavirus shelter in place order #mindblowing #wow pic.twitter.com/mz35hae9zm — manishkumar (@manishkumar457) march 23, 2020 read the rest share / tweet / comments animals / coronavirus / coyotes / wildlife david pescovitz / 9:40 am tue, jan 21, 2020 man wrestles and kills coyote that was attacking his toddler yesterday in kensginton, new hampshire, ian o’reilly and his family were walking on a trail near a local pond when a coyote attacked his two-year-old son. after fighting with the animal for ten minutes, o'reilly strangled it. according to police, the same coyote, likely sick, was responsible for other attacks earlier that day that apparently didn't result in injury. o'reilly described the confrontation to boston 25 news: “there was no interest in (the coyote) going away. [i] ultimately had to make the decision to become the aggressor and jumped on it, attacked it and [got] it to the ground," o’reilly said. “when i was able to get on top of it, i put my hand on its snout so it wasn’t able to attack me. there was quite a bit of snow on the ground, so i shoved the face into the snow and then eventually was able [to] put my hand on its snout and expire it through suffocation. ultimately one hand on its windpipe and one hand on its snout did the trick.” o’reilly was apparently bitten in the arm and chest by the coyote. the child involved was also bitten, though the animal did not break the child’s skin due to the snowsuit he was wearing at the time. since the incident, o’reilly has already received his first round of rabies shots; he’ll have four more follow-up visits with doctors for more. read the rest share / tweet / 27 comments animal attacks / animals / coyotes xeni jardin / 2:19 pm fri, aug 30, 2019 injured coyote pup gets a sweet pep talk from rescuer the internet-famous chicago native “crime pays but botany doesn't” talks to an injured coyote he encountered and rescued. the little guy just got a flea bath, and he was on his way to a wildlife rehab facility. read the rest share / tweet / 11 comments animals / compassion / coyotes / wildlife seamus bellamy / 6:00 am mon, aug 19, 2019 abandoned coyote pup gets the care it deserves joey santore's youtube channel crime pays but botany doesn't has meat-and-potatoes approach to the wonders of the natural world: it's direct, informative and often funny as hell. recently, while out in the field doing what he does, santore came across what appeared to be an abandoned coyote pup. emaciated, and possibly showing signs of mange, it was in pretty bad shape. after a quick chase, santore cornered the pup and, well, just watch. with the pup in rough enough shape that santore was able to catch it, i'm hoping for the best, but assuming the worst. if it survives, i'll be happily surprised. fingers crossed for a bit of good news on this one. read the rest share / tweet / 27 comments animal rescue / botany / chicago / coyote / coyotes / crime pays but botany doesn't / joey satore david pescovitz / 5:00 am mon, apr 29, 2019 coyote chases off burglar in downey, california, southeast of los angeles, a gentleman breaking into a car was chased off by a neighborhood watch-coyote. video evidence above. my favorite part is the thief peeking around the cars to see if the coyote was awaiting his return. read the rest share / tweet / 12 comments animals / coyotes / crimes / thieves jason weisberger / 12:41 pm sun, feb 7, 2016 pedantic nit picking over tripping coyotes the tripping balls coyotes of marin county are a real thing. as i drive my daughter to school in the early mornings, this year, we have seen some odd, and entertaining coyote behavior! theory has been that local coyotes have been eating some mushrooms that make them trip out. single coyotes have been running into traffic, inspecting cars that stop, and staring down drivers! i guess there was some confusion, or concern, as to what kind of mushrooms could cause this? via the nbc bay area: the pacific sun reported that coyotes in west marin who have recently starred in bizarre confrontations with humans in cars may have eaten fly agaric mushrooms, which contain a psychoactive substance called muscimol. the story went around the world, fueling tabloid headlines like "coyotes are allegedly getting high on magic mushrooms" and "coyotes tripping on magic mushrooms?" while the fly agaric mushrooms have hallucinogenic properties, they aren't part of the group of fungi that commonly referred to as "magic mushrooms," which is slang for a popular recreational drug for humans. magic mushrooms typically refer to mushrooms that contain a hallucinogenic substance called psylocybin. both can reportedly be found growing wild in the north bay through the spring. read the rest share / tweet / 17 comments coyotes / mushrooms / tripping read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support