/ david pescovitz / 8:48 am fri mar 27, 2020 coyotes on the streets of san francisco la espectacular imagen de un coyote sobre el puente golden gate, en san francisco. la llegada de animales salvajes a las ciudades desiertas es un hecho #covid2019 #quedateentucasa #covid19 #lugaresymás pic.twitter.com/7rtpkbt7w2 — lugares y más (@_lugaresymas) march 25, 2020 follow us twitter / facebook / rss while coyotes are occasionally spotted in san francisco's parks, the shelter-in-place mandate has seemingly made the beautiful animals more comfortable wandering around the mostly empty city. from sfgate: there has been an increase in coyotes in the city over recent years. in february kqed reported that they were thought to be recolonizing the places they used to inhabit abundantly after being nearly wiped out through poisoning and hunting from the '40s onwards. after years of zero sightings in san francisco, a coyote was seen in the presidio in 2002, thought to have been brought over from a trapper in the north bay or possibly even making its way alone over the golden gate bridge. since then numbers have continued to rise. coyote on the streets of san francisco during the coronavirus shelter in place order #mindblowing #wow pic.twitter.com/mz35hae9zm — manishkumar (@manishkumar457) march 23, 2020 share / tweet / 37 comments animals / coronavirus / coyotes / wildlife get the boing boing newsletter drone walks dog vakis demetrious posted this clip from limassol, cyprus. he writes: 5th day quarantine. stay home safe but don’t forget your dog happiness.. (and yes, i understand that if the dog wanted to run off, it could easily pull the drone right along with it.) read the rest watch this fascinating bbc documentary about the history of house cats above, watch the first episode of cats, biologist, naturalist and tv presenter roger tabor’s wonderful bbc documentary series from 1991 that explores the history of the house cat around the world. and a bonus below, tabor’s 2011 short “the secret life of cats: report and documentary”: (via r/obscuremedia) read the rest newly discovered c.1933 footage of the extinct tasmanian tiger (thylacine) the tasmanian tiger (thylacine) was a beautiful carnivorous marsupial that went extinct in the 1930s in part due to human hunting and encroachment on the animal’s natural habitats. (to this day though, people report occasional sightings in the region.) there are a handful of film clips of the thylacine shot at the beaumaris zoo and […] read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support