sign in home contact sfgate classifieds about sfgate about sfgate faq sfgate newsletters sfgate staff careers site index hearst ad choices advertise with us more on advertising more on advertising place a classified ad about our ads public notices local business directory place an obituary gate list privacy notice terms of use newsletters do not sell my info contact sfgate customer support sign up for sfgate newsletters folllow sfgate on facebook advertise with sfgate news bay area election 2020 california nation world politics crime business business business section technology jobs public notices sponsored content mba by the bay visionsf obituaries new mexico cancels national tourism campaign amid virus us eyes new outbreaks as infections worldwide top 590,000 tennessee gov expects 'significant' unemployment pay boost trump, rejecting blame, warns governors to be 'appreciative' sports 49ers raiders giants a's warriors soccer sharks golf tv listings college preps doris burke tested positive for the coronavirus steph curry is apparently a pretty good journalist, which isn't 'this is serious business': dr. anthony fauci answered questions construction worker at raiders' new vegas stadium has coronavirus local locals money things to do neighborhoods grocery store sales are soaring, but so are stress and anxiety coyotes are being seen on the empty streets of san francisco soma clock tower penthouse finally sells for $4.85m, 43% below 4-level pac heights condo for sale for $3.75m, first time in 43 culture events entertainment entertainment entertainment news the daily dish movies music & nightlife performance art comics datebook tv horoscope dear abby crosswords & puzzles things to do offbeat tech cannabis rapper g-eazy will dish out free meals to san francisco youth for this bay area r&b singer shot a 'quarantine style' music video in missing the movies? here are the sf theaters hosting virtual the latest from dear abby commuting public transit ride-sharing traffic drivers bikes & scooters cars ac transit just eliminated fares. why can't bart do the same? ac transit is free during the coronavirus pandemic bart to reduce hours after losing 90% of ridership golden gate bridge losing $300,000 a day in toll money food + drink restaurants reservations beer news chronicle wine competition why the oldest restaurant in san francisco refuses to lay off a 7 top winery concerts you can’t miss in august and september show us what you're baking and cooking while you're stuck indoors two san francisco michelin star chefs collaborate on a travel city guides weekend getaways local travel tips and hacks wine country napa reno-tahoe hawaii mexico sf insider: things to do monterey-carmel chris mcginnis' travel tips disneyland, disney world to remain closed indefinitely amid the ultimate guide to livermore's top wineries (the press) airline plans canceled? read this about getting refunds bart mulls eliminating entire lines on weekdays, closing on real estate new homes (virtual) open homes the walk-through luxury on the block rentals mortgage rates place an ad neighborhood guides stuck house hunting at home? tour virtual open homes soma clock tower penthouse finally sells for $4.85m, 43% below 4-level pac heights condo for sale for $3.75m, first time in 43 bay area rental market taking a hit during shelter-in-place obits obituaries place an obituary les hunter, star on loyola chicago championship team, dies kansas coronavirus death toll rises to 4, with 202 cases new hampshire to get at least $1.25b in virus relief package from dhaka to gaza: how do you socially distance in a crowd? menusections full coronavirus coverage coronavirus updates: outbreak expected at san francisco hospital 2:49 pm 2:49 pm disneyland, disney world to remain closed indefinitely 1:35 pm 1:35 pm mayor: teen dies after initially being denied care over insurance trump signs $2.2t stimulus after swift congressional votes 3:53 pm 3:53 pm parking lots closing at sf's marina green and ocean beach the latest: trump presses manufacturers to build ventilators 3:50 pm 3:50 pm santa clara co. distances itself from grim death toll projection https://www.sfgate.com/living-in-sf/article/coyotes-are-being-seen-on-the-empty-streets-15159105.php coyotes are being seen on the empty streets of san francisco by andrew chamings updated 11:01 am pdt, friday, march 27, 2020 a coyote in san francisco, march 2020, sent in by reader charles linder a coyote in san francisco, march 2020, sent in by reader charles linder photo: charlers linder / @linderisms photo: charlers linder / @linderisms image 1 of / 32 caption close image 1 of 32 a coyote in san francisco, march 2020, sent in by reader charles linder a coyote in san francisco, march 2020, sent in by reader charles linder photo: charlers linder / @linderisms coyotes are being seen on the empty streets of san francisco 1 / 32 back to gallery while families' cats and dogs are enjoying the upside of spending days with their owners working from home during the coronavirus shutdown, wild coyotes in san francisco are reportedly also taking advantage of the benefits of a suddenly empty city. there have been several recent fake stories circulating about unusual wildlife showing up in cities during the global pandemic, including news from italy of dolphins swimming in the historic canals of venice and a gang of happy drunk elephants in the yunnan province of china that was also debunked. a surge in coyotes wandering the streets of san francisco is a little less far-fetched. there has been an increase in coyotes in the city over recent years. in february kqed reported that they were thought to be recolonizing the places they used to inhabit abundantly after being nearly wiped out through poisoning and hunting from the '40s onwards. after years of zero sightings in san francisco, a coyote was seen in the presidio in 2002, thought to have been brought over from a trapper in the north bay or possibly even making its way alone over the golden gate bridge. since then numbers have continued to rise. as san franciscans get through their second week of sheltering in place, coyotes are seemingly enjoying the newfound space on the street. on monday twitter user @manishkumar457 shared a photo of a coyote on the sidewalk during the shutdown. coyote on the streets of san francisco during the coronavirus shelter in place order #mindblowing #wow pic.twitter.com/mz35hae9zm — manishkumar (@manishkumar457) march 23, 2020 yesterday @bathtubbulletin posted a photo of a coyote in glen park. coyote in glen canyon park, san francisco, march 2020 https://t.co/3x5s9qhsrr pic.twitter.com/nnf4yzeehr — bathtub bulletin (@bathtubbulletin) march 25, 2020 jane, an sfgate reader, spotted coyotes this week at twin peaks and told us that she's, "never seen one at twin peaks (and i've literally been there hundreds of times). i think they're feeling free to roam given the general lack of traffic." also on tuesday, vice producer gianna toboni tweeted that her family saw three of the animals by their house in san francisco. unexpected things happening, maybe as a result of shelter in place. my brother just spotted three coyotes in front of my parents’ house in san francisco. — gianna toboni (@giannatoboni) march 24, 2020 and cnbc reporter christina farr spotted a pack of sleeping coyotes in the city last week. i went for a walk for fresh air and a group of women called out to me. and omg, they had spotted a pack of sleeping coyotes in the middle of (usually busy) san francisco. pic.twitter.com/nndg3dcs2q — christina farr (@chrissyfarr) march 20, 2020 while anxious residents are eager to see the end of the stay-at-home order, after waiting in the wings, our wild canine friends are apparently making the most of their opportunity to claim back the city. andrew chamings is a digital editor at sfgate. email: andrew.chamings@sfgate.com | twitter: @andrewchamings most popular 1 coyotes are being seen on the empty streets of sf 2 coronavirus updates: outbreak expected at san francisco hospital 3 mayor: teenager with covid-19 died after initially being denied care over insurance 4 why sf's oldest restaurant refuses to lay off a single employee 5 doctor charged with intentionally coughing on health workers 6 santa clara co. distances itself from grim death toll projection 7 parking lots closing at sf's marina green and ocean beach 8 he survived covid-19. he's broke. but he thinks america is overreacting 9 vexing questions about covid-19 scientists still can't answer 10 how to get the airline refund you deserve 11 missing the movies? here are the sf theaters hosting virtual screenings 12 disneyland, disney world to remain closed indefinitely amid coronavirus crisis 13 texas man jailed for online threats against nancy pelosi 14 the latest: trump presses manufacturers to build ventilators 15 a nurse dies. angry co-workers blame a lack of protective gear. latest news nba broadcaster doris burke tests positive for coronavirus darkened by covid-19, sf hotels light up the night stars of 'contagion' reunite for a psa canada to cover up to 75 percent of salaries for businesses cal shakes cancels 2020 season due to coronavirus he survived covid-19. but he thinks america is overreacting doctor charged with intentionally coughing on health workers british prime minister johnson tests positive for virus view comments © 2020 hearst communications, inc. logo return to top about privacy notice your california privacy rights interest based ads terms of use our company the press: guide to wine country green state: cannabis culture careers advertising contact customer service newsroom contacts connect sign up for email alerts facebook twitter pinterest instagram ccpa do not sell my info quicklinks real estate summer camp guide cars jobs sf marketplace recruitment home services obituaries horoscopes comics dear abby weather home movies tv earthquakes wildfires public notice mba by the bay hearst newspapers © copyright hearst communications, inc.