skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search cranky in the news to see the archives, go to crankyflier.com/media how biscoff cookies became the snack we crave on planes march 23, 2020 – kaitlin menza because of its association with flying, the biscoff cookie can also lock into the sensory memory. “we were on a flight to hawaii when i was a kid, and my dad was like, ‘i need more of these.’ they gave him a whole bag,” remembers brett snyder, the president of the airline blog cranky flier. “it’s this treat you get when you fly, like ginger ale.” and they tick a lot of boxes, when you consider the factors that make up for a perfect plane snack. “you want something that’s not a mess. i always think about those nature valley granola bars [where] the second you open them, there’s just crumbs everywhere. you generally want to avoid something like that,” snyder says. “you want to avoid anything that requires a specific temperature. the default snack of choice used to be peanuts, but all the concerns about allergy really quashed that one.” the ideal bite, in snyder’s estimation, is “something that’s either salty or sweet to really get people’s taste buds working—which they do differently at altitude than they do on the ground.” 14 things to do when your flight is canceled or delayed march 19, 2020 – kyle mccarthy brett snyder, president of the cranky concierge air travel assistance service, says, “in the event of a delay, the best thing to do is everything. get in line to talk with an agent; while waiting, pick up your phone.” call your travel advisor or travel insurance provider if you have those resources. if not, try to rebook yourself through the airline’s app, by phone or by using their twitter or facebook accounts to contact customer service. … also know your airline’s partner carriers, especially if you’re traveling internationally. “take american airlines [as an example],” snyder says. “if you are going to europe and there’s a problem on one of their flights, you can say they should put you on british airways.” … “if agents have an airplane leaving with an empty seat during irops (irregular operations),” snyder says, “they will do everything they can to put you on that plane and reduce the number of stranded passengers later in the day.” american airlines jobs on the line, dfw airport stores closing in coronavirus fallout march 16, 2020 – gordon dickson “the number of flights will be slashed, and it’s entirely possible we’ll see a full shutdown of the airline industry for a period of time,” said brett snyder, president of the popular air travel blog cranky flier. … “for airlines, this will be dire,” snyder said in an email. “even though they are in better shape financially than in past crises, this one looks to be more impactful than anything we’ve seen previously. every airline will be in a world of hurt. the government will have to offer bail-outs or every airline will likely file for bankruptcy protection. though it’s too early to say, the impact so far could easily surpass what we saw after 9/11.” q&a: what you need to know about trump’s travel ban from europe due to coronavirus march 12, 2020 – andrea mandell, chris woodyard and dawn gilbertson it doesn’t matter that trump mentioned only flights from europe to the usa, not flights in both directions, said brett snyder, a former airline employee who runs the cranky concierge travel service. travelers will cancel flights en masse during the busy spring break travel season. “if they can’t come home, they’re not going to europe,” he said. one small perk of the coronavirus outbreak: faster airplane wi-fi march 11, 2020 – rob pegoraro “airlines have already shown a willingness to put up new technology if it means a more functional system,” e-mailed brett snyder, an airline analyst who runs the cranky flier blog. “delta and american have both replaced their old air-to-ground systems with satellite offerings.” delta trims capacity 15% as coronavirus cuts into travel march 10, 2020 – kelly yamanouchi brett snyder, president of air travel assistance firm cranky concierge, said: “it’s really going to be an individual decision for every person — is it right for me to travel or not?” for airlines, “the question is how long it will last. that’s the multi-million dollar question.” aviation industry stands to lose up to $113 billion from coronavirus effect march 8, 2020 coronavirus airplane travel: how us airlines are cleaning planes march 5, 2020 – madeline merinuk according to brett snyder, president of cranky concierge, a site that provides air travel assistance, the basic sanitation process includes a cursory clean to get trash off the ground, but it’s usually not very in-depth since there’s typically not much time between flights. if it’s a long-haul flight, there’s usually a deeper clean that includes wiping down surfaces. but as covid-19 continues to spread, certain airlines are changing their policies and procedures to help prevent the spread of the virus. “there are already some procedures in place that are above and beyond normal cleaning,” said snyder. coronavirus is upending air travel. here’s how to navigate flight cancellations, changes during the outbreak march 5, 2020 – dan catchpole airlines around the world are waiving change and cancellation fees. the specific terms and conditions vary from carrier to carrier and are changing day to day as the coronavirus outbreak unfolds, says brett snyder, who runs the travel blog cranky flier, as well as cranky concierge, a travel assistance company. … and since no one can say where coronavirus might pop up next, making travel plans right now might feel like rolling dice. for instance, snyder says, imagine booking a summer trip to south africa. coronavirus is not there now, but what if it shows up by the planned trip? “will south african airways put a waiver out?” he asks. “hopefully, they would, but your guess is as good as mine.” with that in mind, snyder recommends american travelers book international flights through a u.s.-based airline, even if it is through a codeshare on a partner airlines’ aircraft. in general, airlines have restricted when they grant refunds, and they are more likely to offer vouchers or credit for future travel, snyder says. “if you have that credit on an american airline rather than (a foreign carrier), you’ll have lot more use for that credit,” he says. southwest didn’t have the 737 max for nine months in 2019, but still boosted its on-time rankings march 5, 2020 – kyle arnold passengers only file complaints with federal regulators after they’ve exhausted their options with the airline, said brett snyder, an air travel blogger with crankyflier.com. “southwest’s reputation is better than statistics would show,” snyder said. “their customer relations team tends to be more flexible and more friendly and they do have certain policies that make it friendlier, such as no change fees and no fees for checked bags.” … but southwest’s decentralized network also helps the airline recover from cancellations, snyder said. most large airlines operate a “hub and spoke” network so when there are weather problems or delays at a hub, it’s tough to put customers back on a path to their destination. southwest can route customers through its “spiderweb” of airports, snyder said. here’s looking at you, blue: jetblue looks to the next 20 years march 2, 2020 – chris sloan “when they were founded, it was brilliantly pitched as a better way to fly. it used live television, more legroom and those famous terra blue chips to feed into the narrative that it was something better,” says brett snyder, analyst and founder of the cranky concierge air travel assistance site. “but in reality, the root of jetblue’s early success was based primarily on its ability to corner the market on slots at jfk where it was the only low-cost operator for years,” snyder says. … “jetblue certainly had missteps over the years including a never-fully-formed west coast strategy. it tried to grow too fast, and that caused severe teething pains. it has matured into a well-liked, but under-performing carrier (both operationally and financially),” says snyder. the frommers travel show february 29, 2020 – cranky radio interview with pauline frommer what to do if your flight gets canceled february 25, 2020 – amy marturana winderi “the most important thing is to make sure that the airline or travel agent has your day-of-travel contact information on file,” says brett snyder, president at cranky concierge, an air travel assistance service that helps travelers deal with this exact situation. “if there are any problems, they will rely on that information to reach out to you. if they don’t have info, you won’t get a notification from them.” … snyder suggests also checking the for airport-specific delays. “that doesn’t mean your flight will be delayed, but if there’s fog in san francisco or thunderstorms over new york, then chances are higher that you’ll face a delay,” he says. … “the agents at the airline usually just want to get you out of their hair, and i don’t mean that in a bad way,” says snyder. “that means both of yours goals are aligned. if you can help them find an option and get you moving, then everyone is happy.” the airline will look up your reservation and book you on the next available option, says snyder, but the automation process in their booking system won’t always get you the best flight. so, while you’re waiting in line to speak with the booking agent, use your phone to look up other options. some airlines cut back on inflight service to combat coronavirus. will those changes stick? february 25, 2020 – zach wichter brett snyder, who runs the cranky flier blog and cranky concierge service, agreed. “i’m sure some of this is a good and well-thought out precaution, but i imagine more of it is really about reassuring customers,” he said. customers will probably respond well to the airlines’ measures overall, he added, “as long as they don’t go too far and scare the hell out of people.” both snyder and harteveldt agreed that the measures are likely to last only as long as the coronavirus threat is imminent for travelers. snyder said such measures will likely be in place “until the threat is very clearly eliminated.” harteveldt and snyder added that passengers will likely respond better to some of the precautionary service changes than others. flight solutions from cranky flier february 24, 2020 – jamie biesiada this article is a summary of a speech i gave at wendy perrin’s global travel summit. click the link to read details. inflight movies: does anyone really want to watch them on a phone? february 14, 2020 – barbara peterson “the airlines’ thinking is that ‘if we give you power and a bunch of stuff you can stream on your own, and you don’t have to pay for it, that should be enough’,” said brett snyder, who runs the cranky flier website. what the american-alaska partnership means for delta february 14, 2020 – zach wichter and edward russell “at this point, it’s certainly not good news for delta,” said brett snyder, who runs the cranky concierge travel service and writes the cranky flier blog about air travel. the main issue for delta is that alaska has gained some footing with a big partner like american, something that allows it to pack a greater punch as a competitor, said snyder. but, he added, it’s too early to tell exactly how much the partnership will affect delta’s long-term outlook in seattle. “whether it makes a dent or not, that what we don’t know,” snyder said. … “when was the last time someone has really tried to challenge delta where delta had the upper hand? it’s not something we have really seen, and for that reason i think there is more uncertainty here than you otherwise might expect,” snyder said. doctors urge travelers not to fly with flu february 6, 2020 – chris coffey “always check the fine print to see what’s covered, but travel insurance is something that would help get your money back if you get sick and aren’t able to travel,” said travel expert brett snyder with cranky concierge. according to snyder, booking through a travel agency may provide a benefit because agents may have connections with airlines that could improve a sick customer’s chances for a cancellation fee waiver due to the coronavirus outbreak, these travel brands have suspended or altered service to china january 31, 2020 – mónica marie zorrilla brett snyder, founder and author of the popular airline industry blog crankyflier.com, confirmed to adweek that airlines have seen dramatic decreases in demand to china thanks to the concern around the coronavirus outbreak, and that many of these airlines have canceled all flights to mainland china for a month or more. “it remains to be seen whether this will remain isolated to panic around china travel or if it will expand,” snyder said. jetblue drops oakland, shrinks long beach amid broader route shakeup january 16, 2020 – edward russell “this looks like a half-measure by jetblue,” brett snyder, a former airline employee who runs the cranky concierge travel service and writes the cranky flier blog, told tpg. “it angers employees and makes the airline even less relevant than it already was in long beach. why bother keeping it as anything more than a spoke?” is delta air lines going to shake up those onerous airline change fees? january 14, 2020 – dawn gilbertson “who knows what it, in practice, actually means?” said brett snyder, a former airline employee who runs a travel service called cranky concierge and writes the cranky flier blog. if delta simply is more transparent about change fees and why it charges them, that’s no benefit to travelers, he said. but if it changes its policies or fees, say by waiving any fare difference or changing the fee, “that’s a big deal.” … “can they find a way where they think it actually will not be revenue negative?” snyder said. snyder said airline fees tend to go in only one direction: up. and that hefty change fees in particular force travelers who can’t afford refundable tickets to make “bad” decisions, like not changing a flight when a child gets sick. “you’re like, ‘god, i want to, but i can’t pay that money.’ ” when movies make airplane fanatics cringe january 4, 2020 – chris mcginnis “inevitably you see a 747 take off, a narrow body cabin, and then a dc-10 land. few pay attention to what it should be,” said brett snyder, editor of the cranky flier aviation blog. airlines are offering passengers plenty of choices — but does it make a difference? december 29, 2019 – alison fox brett snyder, the founder of airline industry blog cranky flier, said while he doesn’t necessarily think that’s true anymore, explaining a strong economy has started to dictate a more discerning market, the idea of having control over what you pay for is an intriguing one. in fact, he said it’s the “a la carte model,” or unbundled fares, that has been a huge financial help for airlines (which also happens to work both for price-conscious customers and those who want to add on services like lounge access or wi-fi). “the ability to let people pick and choose also encourages airlines to offer more products if there’s a revenue stream that’s there for them,” he said. “in the last decade especially… the airlines have been doing well and they’ve said ‘we’re going to try to invest in this and see what we can do.’” latam and british airways, iberia-parent iag drop partnership plans december 10, 2019 – edward russell brett snyder, founder of the travel service cranky concierge and author of the cranky flier blog, recently called iag’s air europa deal a “second act” in the surprising saga that was latam’s pivot to delta. asked by tpg about latam and iag’s decision to drop their planned partnership, snyder said regulatory hurdles to the latam-iag tie up likely trumped the air europa deal. “it would be a mistake if this were in any way related to the iag acquisition of air europa since it is far from certain that will be approved,” he said. “certainly regulatory problems, along with the realignment away from oneworld, made it more challenging to push this through.” united’s scott kirby finally gets a ceo job: now what? december 5, 2019 – brian sumers “he was an imposing figure,” said brett snyder, an airline analyst who worked for kirby from 1999–2002 at america west airlines. “he certainly cast a long shadow, and he was very blunt. he was not going to play games. you would know where you stood pretty clearly when you were interacting with him.” … “for scott, revenue management and pricing, these are his babies,” snyder said. “when you hear him talk about it, he has incredible ability to grasp the situation and understand the right way to go with something. i think it is because his brain is actually a computer.” is southwest airlines considering a no-frills ticket? (just don’t call it basic economy) december 5, 2019 – dawn gilbertson brett snyder, a former airline employee who runs a travel service called cranky concierge and writes the cranky flier blog, said he can’t see southwest introducing anything like a traditional basic economy fare or doing away with its free bag policy, at least while kelly is in charge. he said southwest frequently studies new initiatives but is slow to make any changes. if the airline ends up changing up its fare categories, snyder said it’s certainly possible travelers who buy the lowest fare would see reduced benefits. that could include fewer frequent flyer points earned and maybe one free checked bag instead of two. he called the latter a “no brainer” for southwest. “you can still say bags fly free,” he said. “you can still maintain that moral superiority that southwest likes to have, yet you can find another revenue stream.” yes, you are being asked if you want travel insurance more often november 28, 2019 “these travel insurance policies can be quite lucrative for whoever sells them,” said brett snyder of the airline industry blog cranky flier. make the most of an overbooked flight november 25, 2019 – brett snyder aarp asked me write an article about strategies for getting bumped. if southwest wanted to acquire another airline, which would it target? november 4, 2019 “it’s almost cult-like, and i don’t mean that necessarily in a negative way,” brett snyder, an industry expert who runs the cranky flier blog, said about southwest’s culture. “it’s an important attribute for the airline. you’ll hear gary kelly say that over and over again. maybe future management would stray further away a little bit and take more risks. but, they seem to put culture toward the top of what matters when they’re doing things.” some of united’s regional flights just got a lot cushier with new plane november 1, 2019 brett snyder, who operates airline industry blog cranky flier, got to see one of the planes during a recent media day and called it a “beautiful plane.” but passenger amenities are not the only reason for introducing this type of plane, snyder said. united, american and delta all have agreements with pilots for how much flying the airline can outsource to regional partners. united has a restriction on the number of 70- to 76-seat airplanes it can operate but no restrictions on 50-seat planes, snyder said. “united is trying to catch up to the competition by doing this,” snyder said. “they have rolled out what is by nature an incredibly generous product: a big airplane with a lot of extra room. it benefits every flyer that goes on this airplane, no question.” … snyder said another perk is fewer people on board, which provides a better experience for travelers. “it’s an easy on and off, even if you’re in the back on coach,” he said. “generally it’s a nicer experience.” boeing takes out full-page ads before ceo testifies october 29, 2019 “it doesn’t sit well with me. this is anything but an apology,” said brett snyder, an aviation expert. “it’s unlikely that any of the friends or families of the victims care about the wall street journal. and if they do read it, they don’t care that boeing took out an ad.” … “this [message] isn’t targeted at families; it’s targeted at the people who buy airplanes or working for the airlines,” said snyder. how will airlines handle the return of boeing’s 737 max 8? october 17, 2019 “boeing has put the airlines in a difficult position,” said brett snyder, an aviation expert and founder of the blog cranky flier. “no consumer is buying a boeing product; they’re buying the airline product. on the one hand, you want to reassure people that it’s safe and your pilots are qualified, trained and tested. but on the other hand, the more visibility you bring to this, the more it sticks in people’s minds.” united has a new tool to help you make tight connections. they say it’s saved 50,000 missed flights. october 16, 2019 brett snyder, founder and author of crankyflier.com, an airline-industry blog, said united and other airlines have already looked at data to decide whether to hold flights for tight connections. but those decisions have been made by humans looking at a variety of factors rather than technology that makes the call automatically. “this is just putting more rigor behind it,” says snyder, who wrote about the new tool in june. and, he said, it’s a great marketing ploy to contrast united with other airlines. … “it’s helping people, it’s great,” snyder says. but he wonders whether the travelers who are making their flights only because of the new tool even know it. his suggestion? the airline should send a notification in those cases: “connectionsaver to the rescue — you just got saved.” after icelandair leaves kansas city, can kci land another nonstop flight to europe? october 6, 2019 brett snyder, an airline observer who authors the cranky flier blog, said the airline’s departure is not a huge surprise. kansas city is a longer — thus more expensive to fly — flight than many of icelandair’s u.s. destinations. “it seemed like a stretch,” snyder said. “and kansas city had no other long-haul international flying at all, which made this definitely more of an experiment.” icelandair rapidly expanded into underserved u.s. markets. but a price war with icelandic competitor wow air drove ticket prices down. wow went bankrupt earlier this year, though new owners have announced plans to relaunch service soon. with its rival out of the way, the market has become more “rational,” snyder said. “and icelandair is probably rethinking it’s risky markets like kansas city,” he said. during inconvenient sfo construction, airlines offer waivers september 16, 2019 sabre says doj suit mischaracterizes farelogix acquisition august 22, 2019 brett snyder, who runs the aviation blog cranky flier, characterized the acquisition as one that would help sabre better its offerings for airlines and, in turn, travel agencies. “it feels like sabre has finally, after years of neglecting the trends of the airline industry — of how they want to sell tickets — new management has finally come in and said, ‘we need to compete in this space, or we’re going to be left behind,'” snyder said. “this acquisition helps them do that. in my mind, it doesn’t seem like an effort to simply kill a competitor. it seems like an effort for sabre to catch up to what it fought against for so many years.” american airlines will make first class classier on some jets august 20, 2019 brett snyder, an airline industry analyst who also runs a high-end travel concierge business, said he has heard from clients that the seats are “poorly thought out” and “desperately in need of help.” given the importance of premium customers, snyder said he’s not surprised american is changing course. “for american, the people who sit in first class are the people they care about the most,” snyder said. “they have to make sure those people are happy.” … snyder said he’s not surprised american is leaving economy class alone. “i hadn’t heard many complaints about coach,” he said. “people seem to like whining about the number of seats on the airplane but it doesn’t actually seem like it is that uncomfortable.” the new airport congestion: plane spotters crowd fancy hotel bars august 2, 2019 brett snyder, who writes the aviation blog cranky flier, says creature comforts aren’t what matters most about plane-spotting. he organizes an annual event called dorkfest where spotters gather at an in-n-out burger outside lax. “when a plane comes, it looks like prairie dogs — everyone stops talking and looks in the same direction,” he says. ‘we kind of couldn’t believe it:’ american passenger recounts 21-hour delay as airline struggles july 12, 2019 brett snyder, whose cranky concierge travel service includes help rebooking canceled and delayed flights, has heard an earful about american recently. “people are just mad,” he said. passengers don’t care whether their flight is canceled for a mechanical issue, weather or other reasons, snyder said. “all they really know is that american is not running a good operation,” he said. … snyder has a flight to hawaii coming up on american and, like many passengers, is worried. he’s not going so far as to booking a pricey back up ticket, as one of his clients did, but said he is “mentally preparing” for a delay. tiny german airline a big player, thanks to interline deals july 8, 2019 “if you are an agent, you should love this,” said brett snyder, an aviation analyst and owner of the air travel service cranky concierge. “it allows you to find and book places that are halfway around the world really easily.” american airlines says mechanics are causing delays. now, a judge could force the union to pay for it june 30, 2019 – kyle arnold it comes on top of a particularly challenging period for american where travelers have been complaining about delays and cancellations, said brett snyder, a travel and aviation blogger with crankyflier.com. “blaming this on the mechanics issues is a little complicated because american hasn’t been running a great operation even before this,” snyder said. typical fliers probably haven’t connected delays to labor issues, but frequent travelers are aware, snyder said. “if anyone is really noticing, it’s the road warriors,” he said. have we reached peak airline complexity? june 13, 2019 – david kaplan this is a wide-ranging interview with me, so there are too many quotes to copy here. bhm confident in airport traffic growth despite losing via airlines may 30, 2019 – angel coker brett snyder of cranky flier llc said the airline will face issues if it decides to offer commercial flights again in the future. “as for going back to scheduled operations, the only real hurdle they’ll face (other than pilots, apparently) is the complete and total loss of consumer confidence that they can deliver a product,” he said. why american airlines is adding nonstop flights from dfw to these cities in europe may 17, 2019 – gordon dickson “this should help pull travelers from texas, the southwest, california and even parts of latin america,” brett snyder, president of the popular cranky flier air travel blog, said in an email. “the markets are already well-served from the east coast, but they are big summer leisure markets and american thinks it can fill those flights. part of american’s big push at dfw is adding service from … places like flagstaff, monterrey, etc. these summer routes can help fill those airplanes by offering good connections via dfw since there are no one-stop options to these cities via other hubs.” an american airlines passenger says she was ‘assaulted’ by a gate agent. now, she wants an apology may 3, 2019 – dom difurio people generally tend to be anxious about air travel, setting up a scenario that can sometimes turn volatile when problems arise, said industry blogger and travel consultant brett snyder, who runs the crankyflier blog. “one little thing goes wrong and it just sets them off and it just creates these really ugly situations that don’t have to escalate as far as they do,” he said. “it’s usually on both sides that something happens that pushes it to that next level. then somebody goes over the line.” the 737 max is out until august, so how will southwest airlines handle it? april 12, 2019 – mitchell schnurman american picked up corporate customers during that time, especially in chicago, said brett snyder, who writes the aviation blog cranky flier. but most cities don’t have a similar level of competition. “in most places, southwest is still the most convenient option,” he said. and southwest still has a great reputation. last year, southwest had the fewest complaints to federal regulators among the large airlines — and far fewer than the average for all carriers. that doesn’t mean travelers have fewer problems on southwest; but it probably means that southwest does a better job of resolving them, snyder said. … “the difference with southwest is it usually takes care of those complaints itself,” snyder said. “they just make their customers happy.” if you’re going to miss your flight, call the airline. immediately. and be nice march 11, 2019 – catharine hamm “if someone simply opts not to take a flight in the itinerary and it’s not due to an airline-related issue, then they are generally out of luck,” brett snyder, formerly an airline employee and now president of crankyflier.com, which deals with airline questions, and crankyconcierge.com, which offers air travel assistance, said in an email. … even if it’s not your fault (you miss a connecting flight because your first flight was late), you should call. “if the traveler misses a flight due to an airline-related issue, then it is always best to talk to someone at the airline to make sure that the return isn’t canceled,” snyder said. “the systems are automated so that if that flight is missed, the rest of the itinerary cancels. usually in a situation where the airline knows it’s a missed connection, there are other automated systems that will rebook the passenger on the next flight.” … call. don’t leave it to chance. i asked snyder if my return ticket would have been ok because it wasn’t my fault. “if someone decides to drive the last leg, then that would still cause problems down the line,” he said. why american airlines’ dfw fortress hub isn’t so scary anymore february 24, 2019 – mitchell schnurman “dfw isn’t really a fortress hub anymore,” said brett snyder, who writes the aviation blog cranky flier. “some people will always complain, but with the breadth of options and the affordability, most [travelers] are in a good place these days.” southwest airlines cancels more flights because of unspecified mechanical issues february 20, 2019 – david schaper schaper: brett snyder writes about the airline industry on his cranky flier blog. snyder: from their perspective, this is something they think is necessary to make sure that the fleet is fixed and flying, but it certainly would be taken by the union as a shot across the bow. it’s going to ratchet up tension, i would think. … snyder: that’s just labor negotiations (laughter). this is almost a standard pattern. you know, one side will claim safety issues, then the other side will push back. it’s part of the tug of war. 50 years on, boeing’s 747 is fighting for survival february 11, 2019 – sam blum brett snyder, another industry analyst, echoes what boeing executives have admitted in recent years: “there isn’t a long-term future for the 747 as a passenger carrier,” he says. “but for the airplane to have served for 50 years as successfully as it has is quite the testament to an incredible design.” a hacker exposed the ancient flaw that makes airlines so hackable january 17, 2019 – sam blum another airline industry analyst, brett snyder points out that airlines rely on a multitude of services to manage their business, many of which are separate from gds. writing to pm in an email, he explains that it is stronger than it used to be: “overall, the airlines have started to put a bunch of money into it and that’s going to pay dividends, but there have been years of under-investment due to chronic financial problems. so there’s a lot of catching up that needs to be done overall, but this doesn’t seem like as big of a security issue as it’s made out to be in my mind. without knowing the full story, however, that’s just speculation.” why issues that delayed flights at bwi are an industry-wide problem january 15, 2019 – pete muntean airline seat selection fees: it’s pay to play january 5, 2019 – matt villano brett snyder, a former airline employee who now writes the cranky flier blog, described the phenomenon as “effectively a money grab” on the part of the carriers. skyrocketing seat selection fees enrage flyers, enrich airlines december 18, 2018 – dawn gilbertson brett snyder, a former airline employee who writes the cranky flier blog and runs a travel service called cranky concierge, calls that a “completely ridiculous comparison.” “it’s not like you need a view of the pilot here,” he said. … snyder calls preferred seat fees a form of bait and switch. airlines like delta, united and american created no frills basic economy fares for budget sensitive travelers in the past few years, with restrictions including no free advance seat assignments. during booking, they try to get travelers to pay more for a regular economy by touting the perks you get over a basic economy ticket. … except one of the biggest perks, a seat assignment, now carries a caveat: fees may apply. share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site! send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.