skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search cranky flier terms of use use of this website/blog is offered to you on your acceptance of these terms of use, our privacy policy and other notices posted on this website. your use of this website or of any content presented in any and all areas of the website indicates your acknowledgment and agreement to these terms of use, our privacy policy and other notices posted on this website. if you do not agree to be bound by and comply with all of the foregoing, you may not access the website. cranky flier llc “cranky flier” (crankyflier.com) has the right, at its sole discretion, to modify, add or remove any terms or conditions of these terms of use without notice or liability to you. any changes to these terms of use shall be effectively immediately following the posting of such changes on this website.this website is for informational purposes only and is not intended to provide specific commercial, financial, investment, accounting, tax, or legal advice. it is provided to you solely for your own personal, non-commercial use. you may link to and refer to this website freely. this website does not guarantee the accuracy of any information. accordingly, we do not guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, reliability or completeness of any of the information contained on, downloaded or accessed from this website. the performance of this website and all information contained on, downloaded or accessed from this website are provided to you on an “as is” basis, without warranties of any kind whatsoever, including any implied warranties or warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose or non-infringement of the rights of third parties. we reserve the right to modify, disable access to or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, any part or all of this website or any information contained thereon without liability or notice to you. as a visitor to our website, you acknowledge and agree that any reliance on or use by you of any information available on this website shall be entirely at your own risk. in no event shall cranky flier nor any of its data providers be liable for any direct, indirect, consequential or exemplary damages arising from the use or the performance of this website. confidentiality and transmissions over the internet the transmission of data or information (including communications by e-mail) over the internet or other publicly accessible networks is not secure, and is subject to possible loss, interception or alteration while in transit. accordingly, we do not assume any liability for any damage you may experience or costs you may incur as a result of any transmissions over the internet or other publicly accessible networks, such as transmissions involving the exchange of e-mail with us (including those which may contain your personal information). we make no efforts to safeguard the privacy of the information you provide us. all submissions to this website via email or otherwise becomes our property. in no event will the information you provide to us be deemed to be confidential, create any fiduciary obligations to you on our part, or result in any liability to you on our part in the event that such information is inadvertently released by us or accessed by third parties without our consent. user conduct and obligations you agree to follow all applicable laws and regulations when using this website and further agree that you will not transmit junk mail, chain letters, or other unsolicited bulk e-mail or duplicative messages to any email address listed on this site. you also agree to not submit spam to the site comment system. by uploading, posting or otherwise transmitting through or to our website any content, you grant to us, our successors and assigns, a non-exclusive, world-wide, royalty free, perpetual, non-revocable license to use or distribute such content in any manner that is compliant with our privacy policy. indemnification by user you agree to indemnify, defend and hold us and our friends, spouses, children, and agents harmless from any loss, liability, claim, demand, damage, or expense (including any legal fees) asserted by any third party relating in any way to your use of this website or breach of these terms of use. we reserve the right to assume the exclusive defense and control of any matter subject to indemnification by you, which shall not excuse your indemnity obligations. third parties and links links or pointers to other websites and references to products and services offered by third parties are provided to you for convenience only and do not constitute an endorsement or approval by us of (i) the organizations that operate such websites; (ii) the content, privacy policies or other terms of use on such websites; or (iii) such third party products and services. as we have no control or responsibility over websites or content maintained by other organizations, or for products and services offered by third parties, we do not assume any liability for your use of any of the foregoing, which use you acknowledge and agree shall be at your own risk. please note that cranky flier llc has financial relationships with some of the merchants mentioned here. cranky flier llc may be compensated if consumers choose to utilize the links located throughout the content on this site and generate sales for the said merchant. proprietary rights our policy is to comply with all intellectual property laws and to act quickly upon receiving any notice of claimed infringement. if you believe that your work has been reproduced on this website in a manner that constitutes copyright infringement, please let us know immediately by sending email to cf [at] crankyflier.com and the work in question will be removed. general if any provision of these terms of use is held invalid or unenforceable in any respect by any court having competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law, and the remaining provisions of these terms of use shall continue in full force and effect. no waiver of any provision of these terms of use shall be deemed a further or continuing waiver of such provision or any other provision of these terms of use. these terms of use shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of california and the laws of the united states of america. the parties consent to the exclusive jurisdiction at a place to be determined by cranky flier. share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site! send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.