skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search category: cranky jackass upon further review: united gets the cranky jackass award for its new schedule change policy upon further review: united gets the cranky jackass award for its new schedule change policy i was going to write today about the details of united’s big schedule change, but i’m pushing that off. instead, i’ve decided that there’s more to write around united’s bad schedule change policy revision that i covered yesterday. originally, i decided that it wasn’t egregious enough to earn the cranky … cf on mar 10, 2020 mar 10, 2020 united escapes the cranky jackass award despite new, restrictive schedule change policy united escapes the cranky jackass award despite new, restrictive schedule change policy this was a close one. when the news came out saturday night that united was altering its schedule change policy to severely restrict refunds, i immediately dusted off the cranky jackass award and began typing furiously. but yesterday i got a clarification that softens the blow, so the jackass goes … cf on mar 8, 2020 mar 9, 2020 sun country earns the cranky jackass award for giving no options to stranded customers sun country earns the cranky jackass award for giving no options to stranded customers when it comes to major weather problems, i’m a pretty forgiving person. weather wreaks havoc on an airline, and recovery can be really difficult. but even if it takes a week, it’s still important for an airline to make sure it completes its recovery by getting everyone where they need … cf on apr 20, 2018 apr 17, 2018 a cranky jackass award for american’s 737 max torture chamber a cranky jackass award for american’s 737 max torture chamber unlike many of you, i’ve been a fan of traditional airlines increasing density on airplanes over the years. it made sense to me: provide a basic level of comfort and then give people affordable options to buy up if they care. for those who don’t, well, it’ll mean a lower … cf on may 3, 2017 may 4, 2017 american, delta, and united earn a cranky jackass for forcing travelers to overpay for multi-city trips american, delta, and united earn a cranky jackass for forcing travelers to overpay for multi-city trips i’ve made a conscious effort over the last couple years to pull back on awarding too many cranky jackass awards. i didn’t want to cheapen such an illustrious institution. but today, american, delta, and united each get a share of the first cranky jackass of the year. this is … cf on mar 30, 2016 mar 31, 2016 american has been selling main cabin extra seats that have no extra legroom american has been selling main cabin extra seats that have no extra legroom [there is a new post with more information on this. the impact is less than originally thought.] if you’ve bought main cabin extra in rows 6-9 on an american crj-900, then this is going to piss you off. american has been selling main cabin extra seats on crj-900 … cf on oct 29, 2015 oct 29, 2015 delta earns a cranky jackass award for requiring several week advance purchase to book low level domestic awards and not telling anyone delta earns a cranky jackass award for requiring several week advance purchase to book low level domestic awards and not telling anyone you may have seen elsewhere that delta has decided to stop publishing all award charts. that’s bad, because it makes it easier for delta to change mileage redemption levels without telling anyone. but there are other changes afoot, and i don’t remember seeing them announced anywhere. it appears that delta … cf on feb 9, 2015 feb 9, 2015 delta earns a cranky jackass award for its increasingly obnoxious policies around third party tools delta earns a cranky jackass award for its increasingly obnoxious policies around third party tools if you subscribe to expertflyer, then you know where this post is going and you are most certainly in full agreement. delta seems to have decided that it doesn’t like third parties creating extremely helpful tools for delta fliers, so it is shutting them off without providing any alternative. … cf on sep 8, 2014 sep 9, 2014 united jacks up change fees, earns the cranky jackass award united jacks up change fees, earns the cranky jackass award you all know that i like fees. i think having ancillary fees lets people pick and choose what they want when they fly, and that’s a good thing. this isn’t a rant on fees. instead, this is a rant on bad fees that really make it difficult to get people … cf on apr 21, 2013 apr 22, 2013 argentina earns the cranky jackass award for propping up aerolineas argentinas at the expense of real competition argentina earns the cranky jackass award for propping up aerolineas argentinas at the expense of real competition there have been so many good news stories about aviation in latin america lately that it seems like everything is going well. the lan and tam merger created a powerhouse, the avianca/taca merger is also coming together quite nicely, and then of course, there’s little copa rocking it in panama… cf on apr 1, 2013 apr 2, 2013 united blames southwest, city of houston for its own problems in houston, earns the cranky jackass award united blames southwest, city of houston for its own problems in houston, earns the cranky jackass award when united decided to fight southwest’s effort to get international facilities at houston’s hobby airport, i didn’t blame the airline. after all, wouldn’t you want to fight anything that had the potential to hurt your business even a little? but now that the decision has been made to move … cf on jun 5, 2012 jun 4, 2012 pacific wings earns the cranky jackass award for a spiteful website pacific wings earns the cranky jackass award for a spiteful website the eas flights blog stumbled on something yesterday that may be a new low for this industry. in fact, it’s childish enough that the owner of the website, pacific wings, has earned itself the cranky jackass award. what did the airline do that was so deserving of this award? take … cf on feb 26, 2013 mar 13, 2012 posts navigation page 1 page 2 page 3 nextnext footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site!