skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search cranky on the web: more coronavirus, so much coronavirus, and coronavirus wifi cf on mar 12, 2020 mar 14, 2020 - 3 comments on cranky on the web: more coronavirus, so much coronavirus, and coronavirus wifi cranky on the web aviation industry stands to lose up to $113 billion from coronavirus effect – ktvu more coronvirus talk. so much coronavirus talk. but hey, now you get to watch me. delta trims capacity 15% as coronavirus cuts into travel – the atlanta journal-constitution add another one to the pile. it’s really all we can talk about now. q&a: what you need to know about trump’s travel ban from europe due to coronavirus – usa today i had this conversation right after the president made his speech, but only later did we find out the details. i stand by the belief that flights will be slashed, even if americans are technically allowed to fly to europe and back. one small perk of the coronavirus outbreak: faster airplane wi-fi – fast company finally, not coronavirus! ok, the headline mentions it, but this is really about future technology. get posts via email when they go live or in a weekly digest share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) cranky on the web join the conversation 3 comments on “cranky on the web: more coronavirus, so much coronavirus, and coronavirus wifi” tomlechner says: mar 14, 2020 at 6:55 am i think this is the right move for delta (and the industry). my guess is that it’s still not enough. if you could do a story on how full flights are this week, that would give insight on how much cutting is needed. also, delta’s announced cutting is (imho) a double edged sword. i don’t dare book a delta flight right now, even if i have to travel. i know that there is at least a 50% chance that any flight will be cancelled or moved to a different time, perhaps with down-gauged equipment. (perhaps even 757 to regional jet?) when will delta have a new schedule operational, so that i can book with some minimal degree of confidence? (i still would only book a few weeks out, as i expect even deeper cuts in the months to come.) i have searched for detailed articles on the cuts, and find nothing even in detailed sources like ajc and wsj. i look forward to your insights on these topics in future columns. reply hajime sano says: mar 16, 2020 at 1:50 am i would love to get your take on the reported crowded conditions for incoming international travelers. i heard this was due to the detailed tests being administered to each individual entering the country, resulting in hours of waiting in crowded conditions- exactly what we don’t want for containing the coronavirus. is this exaggerated reporting? is it happening occasionally? sometimes? most of the time? thanks for your thoughts! reply cf says: mar 16, 2020 at 11:22 am i wish i knew more haj, but it appears to be pretty widespread at main points of entry. it’s not good. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website please type "87f1a5": leave this field empty please: continue the conversation via emailget only replies to your comment, the best of the rest, as well as a daily recap of all comments on this post. no more than a few emails daily, which you can reply to/unsubscribe from directly from your inbox. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. you may also like cranky on the web: more coronavirus cranky on the web cranky on the web: more coronavirus cranky on the web: pittsburgh’s airport makeover gets started early, more fees coming? cranky on the web, pit - pittsburgh cranky on the web: pittsburgh’s airport makeover gets started early, more fees coming? cranky on the web: sun country to alaska cranky on the web, sun country cranky on the web: sun country to alaska footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site! send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.