skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search will the hna airline empire finally fail? will the hna airline empire finally fail? long before the coronavirus decimated travel to china, hna group was in trouble. it had overspent not just on airlines, but on a variety of companies all over the world. the coronavirus just made things worse for the teetering conglomerate, and now it appears that the end may be near. … cf on feb 24, 2020 feb 24, 2020 - 17 comments on will the hna airline empire finally fail? 3 links i love: norwegian keeps going, an expensive a380 move, pleasures of plane spotting 3 links i love: norwegian keeps going, an expensive a380 move, pleasures of plane spotting this week’s featured link norwegian doubles 2019 underlying operating result before ownership costs and achieves cost-reduction target – norwegian press release even though norwegian has released its most recent results, i’m not going to write them up because it’s just more of the same. the airline continues to try to … cf on feb 21, 2020 feb 21, 2020 - 13 comments on 3 links i love: norwegian keeps going, an expensive a380 move, pleasures of plane spotting great service, not-so-great product on a delta 767-300er from jfk (trip report) great service, not-so-great product on a delta 767-300er from jfk (trip report) after our stay at the twa hotel at jfk, it was time to go home. fortunately — unlike on the way out when we flew into newark — this time we were flying home from jfk so we didn’t have far to go. we opted to take a mid-day flight … cf on feb 19, 2020 feb 20, 2020 - 32 comments on great service, not-so-great product on a delta 767-300er from jfk (trip report) going back in time at jfk with a night at the spectacular twa hotel going back in time at jfk with a night at the spectacular twa hotel when the twa hotel opened in the old eero saarinen-designed twa flight center at new york’s jfk airport last year, i knew that i wanted to go just like every other airline dork in the world. it took me long enough, but on my recent trip to new york, i … cf on feb 18, 2020 feb 18, 2020 - 23 comments on going back in time at jfk with a night at the spectacular twa hotel cranky on the web: screens in seatbacks, the impact on delta cranky on the web: screens in seatbacks, the impact on delta inflight movies: does anyone really want to watch them on a phone? – the wall street journal ($subscription required$) it’s the age-old question about inflight entertainment. does a seatback screen matter or not? barbara peterson at the wsj took a look. what the american-alaska partnership means for delta – tpg… cf on feb 14, 2020 feb 15, 2020 - 10 comments on cranky on the web: screens in seatbacks, the impact on delta 3 links i love: alitalia gets great news, contour sneaks up, how planes fly 3 links i love: alitalia gets great news, contour sneaks up, how planes fly this week’s featured link qatar airways statement on air italy – qatar airways press release air italy is dead, and it’s not thanks to unnecessary us regulation. as i said less than a year ago in a post entitled “don’t waste the effort, let air italy fail on its … cf on feb 13, 2020 feb 14, 2020 - 12 comments on 3 links i love: alitalia gets great news, contour sneaks up, how planes fly the force awakens: american renews ties with alaska as they make a joint move on seattle the force awakens: american renews ties with alaska as they make a joint move on seattle remember that whole thing about american stagnating? the message reached a deafening roar when delta took latam away. it looks like someone over there got the message. this morning, american is announcing that it and alaska are planning to renew the codeshare that was set to all-but-end next month… cf on feb 13, 2020 feb 13, 2020 - 159 comments on the force awakens: american renews ties with alaska as they make a joint move on seattle south african’s flight cuts aren’t as ambitious as they sound south african’s flight cuts aren’t as ambitious as they sound it seems like any time a failing, government-supported airline plans to restructure, it’s mostly lipstick on a pig. i think of airlines like air india, aerolineas argentinas, and of course, my beloved alitalia as perfect examples. shuffle the deck chairs, get new funding, and voila, you have a “new and … cf on feb 10, 2020 feb 11, 2020 - 16 comments on south african’s flight cuts aren’t as ambitious as they sound allegiant shifts growth into a different kind of market allegiant shifts growth into a different kind of market last friday i posted how breeze wants to be allegiant jr. that made the timing perfect for a post on allegiant itself. after some stops and starts in its early days, allegiant found lightning in a bottle with its strategy of flying customers from small city to large desirable … cf on feb 7, 2020 feb 10, 2020 - 13 comments on allegiant shifts growth into a different kind of market cranky on the web: buying condor, don't fly with the flu cranky on the web: buying condor, don't fly with the flu since 3 links was pushed to yesterday, i moved cranky on the web to today polish aviation group to purchase condor airlines – blue sky pittsburgh currently has service from condor, so it is naturally very interested in what the acquisition of the airline means. we don’t know, but i … cf on feb 6, 2020 feb 9, 2020 - 3 comments on cranky on the web: buying condor, don't fly with the flu 3 links i love: avianca rising, demolition in phoenix, norwegian says no heathrow 3 links i love: avianca rising, demolition in phoenix, norwegian says no heathrow this week’s featured link interview: avianca ceo applauds airline consolidation in latin america – airways keep your eyes on avianca. with united’s support, avianca has the time and resources to restructure. the new ceo is assembling a team to really make some noise. i’m expecting to see good things out … cf on feb 6, 2020 feb 8, 2020 - 4 comments on 3 links i love: avianca rising, demolition in phoenix, norwegian says no heathrow david neeleman's new airline is officially called breeze; here's everything he told me about it (across the aisle) david neeleman's new airline is officially called breeze; here's everything he told me about it (across the aisle) were you expecting 3 links i love today? well, this is way better. i will run 3 links tomorrow instead. jetblue and azul founder david neeleman has been not-so-secretly working on his next airline for months now. today, he is officially unveiling that the name is not moxy but rather… … cf on feb 7, 2020 feb 7, 2020 - 35 comments on david neeleman's new airline is officially called breeze; here's everything he told me about it (across the aisle) posts navigation previous previous page 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 page 5 … page 317 nextnext footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site!