skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search upon further review: united gets the cranky jackass award for its new schedule change policy upon further review: united gets the cranky jackass award for its new schedule change policy i was going to write today about the details of united’s big schedule change, but i’m pushing that off. instead, i’ve decided that there’s more to write around united’s bad schedule change policy revision that i covered yesterday. originally, i decided that it wasn’t egregious enough to earn the cranky … cf on mar 10, 2020 mar 10, 2020 - 19 comments on upon further review: united gets the cranky jackass award for its new schedule change policy united escapes the cranky jackass award despite new, restrictive schedule change policy united escapes the cranky jackass award despite new, restrictive schedule change policy this was a close one. when the news came out saturday night that united was altering its schedule change policy to severely restrict refunds, i immediately dusted off the cranky jackass award and began typing furiously. but yesterday i got a clarification that softens the blow, so the jackass goes … cf on mar 8, 2020 mar 9, 2020 - 18 comments on united escapes the cranky jackass award despite new, restrictive schedule change policy cranky on the web: so much coronavirus, jetblue at 20, luving southwest, frommer radio show cranky on the web: so much coronavirus, jetblue at 20, luving southwest, frommer radio show coronavirus airplane travel: how us airlines are cleaning planes – today show this wasn’t an on camera interview, but it was an in-depth look on the today website at how airlines are cleaning airplanes. i know the common response is… how were they not already doing all this? coronavirus is … cf on mar 6, 2020 mar 7, 2020 - 4 comments on cranky on the web: so much coronavirus, jetblue at 20, luving southwest, frommer radio show 3 links i love: lot of trouble, tecnam time, cathay’s unenviable position 3 links i love: lot of trouble, tecnam time, cathay’s unenviable position this week’s featured link lufthansa will verträge mit condor auslaufen lassen – handelsblatt what, you don’t speak german? neither do i, but that’s why google translate is my friend. basically, this says that lufthansa is going to let its agreements with condor expire when they’re up. that’s somewhat surprising to … cf on mar 6, 2020 mar 6, 2020 - 7 comments on 3 links i love: lot of trouble, tecnam time, cathay’s unenviable position trying to do the math on air new zealand’s skynest coach beds trying to do the math on air new zealand’s skynest coach beds air new zealand recently came out with a prototype of the skynest, a pod of flat beds for use by coach passengers. it looks great, and it generated tons of press, but can this really work? i decided to play with numbers a little bit. first, let’s take a look … cf on mar 4, 2020 mar 4, 2020 - 25 comments on trying to do the math on air new zealand’s skynest coach beds dot takes a stab at defining “unfair” and “deceptive” dot takes a stab at defining “unfair” and “deceptive” there’s an interesting rulemaking proposal rolling through the department of transportation (dot) that caught my attention recently. dot is looking to overhaul the way that it applies its consumer protection rules, and this new plan would tip the scales more toward the airlines. the thing is, it also tips the … cf on mar 2, 2020 mar 3, 2020 - 10 comments on dot takes a stab at defining “unfair” and “deceptive” a recipe for coronavirus panic that is very bad news for airlines a recipe for coronavirus panic that is very bad news for airlines coronavirus panic has reached a fever pitch as cases outside of china continue to tick upwards. we appear to be seeing a perfect storm of airlines, governments, and passengers all feeding off each other to create an elevated level of fear. judging from airline reaction, demand seems to be disappearing … cf on mar 2, 2020 mar 2, 2020 - 57 comments on a recipe for coronavirus panic that is very bad news for airlines cranky on the web: some friendly advice, coronavirus service cutbacks, if your flight cancels cranky on the web: some friendly advice, coronavirus service cutbacks, if your flight cancels flight solutions from cranky flier – travel weekly when i was in new york last month, it was to speak at wendy perrin’s global travel summit. you can read travel weekly’s summary of the talk here. keep in mind, this was a session for destination specialists around the globe, so … cf on feb 27, 2020 feb 29, 2020 - no comments on cranky on the web: some friendly advice, coronavirus service cutbacks, if your flight cancels 2 links i love and an update i don’t: eva fines, o’leary sounds off, heathrow blocked again 2 links i love and an update i don’t: eva fines, o’leary sounds off, heathrow blocked again sorry to disappoint you, but there’s no featured link this week. see, i didn’t think it was worth a full post to update you on what happened with cranky concierge’s massive $6,500 bill from eva air, so i figured i’d just drop it in here as an update. (read … cf on feb 27, 2020 feb 28, 2020 - 11 comments on 2 links i love and an update i don’t: eva fines, o’leary sounds off, heathrow blocked again american reverses course with qatar strategic partnership, should take it further american reverses course with qatar strategic partnership, should take it further american continues to make its way around the globe looking for ways to fill its geographical needs. after gol helped fill in some blank spots in brazil, the improved alaska partnership shored up the west coast. now, american is looking toward africa, india, and southeast asia by renewing ties with … cf on mar 10, 2020 feb 27, 2020 - 17 comments on american reverses course with qatar strategic partnership, should take it further save the date: cranky dorkfest 2020 is coming september 12 save the date: cranky dorkfest 2020 is coming september 12 it is time to mark your calendars. cranky dorkfest 2020 has officially been set for saturday, september 12 at lax! last year, i had the successful progressive dinner and the airport tour in addition to the regular spotting event. what will this year bring? i have absolutely no idea. no, … cf on feb 25, 2020 feb 26, 2020 - 14 comments on save the date: cranky dorkfest 2020 is coming september 12 united shuffles its express carriers, trans states will disappear united shuffles its express carriers, trans states will disappear united has eight different airlines flying under the united express banner owned by seven different companies. does it really need all of those? probably not; so it’s good to see that united will simplify a couple operations and remove one entirely. trans states will go away toward the end of … cf on feb 27, 2020 feb 25, 2020 - 28 comments on united shuffles its express carriers, trans states will disappear posts navigation previous previous page 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 … page 317 nextnext footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site!