skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search cranky flier privacy policy collection of non-personally identifiable information like most websites, cranky flier llc “cranky flier” (crankyflier.com) collects non-personally identifiable information from visitors of the sort that web browsers and servers typically make available. visitors to the cranky flier website who have javascript enabled are tracked using google analytics. google analytics collects the following non-personally identifiable types of information from users: type of user agent (web browser) used, software manufacture and version number type of operating system screen colors (color processing ability of the users screen) javascript support flash version screen resolution time of visit pages visited time spent on each page of the website referring site statistics the website (uri) the user came through in order to arrive at this website (example: clicking on a hyperlink from yahoo.com that took the user to this website) search engine query used (example: typing in a phrase into a search engine like google, and clicking on a link from that search engine) this data is primarily used by cranky flier for internal use in order to optimize cranky flier website for visitors, however cranky flier will use this data for marketing purposes. an example of how this data could be used for marketing purposes would be to tell potential advertisers how many visitors we get to the cranky flier website, where our visitors come from, and how they arrive at our website. as previously mentioned, cranky flier, via google analytics, also collects potentially personally identifiable information like internet protocol (ip) addresses. cranky flier does not use such information to identify its visitors, however, and does not disclose such information, other than under the same circumstances that it uses and discloses personally identifiable information, as described below. collection of personally identifiable information certain visitors to cranky flier website choose to interact with cranky flier in ways that require cranky flier to gather personally-identifying information. the amount and type of information that the cranky flier gathers depends on the nature of the interaction. these interactions include but are not limited to the collection of: names and email addresses for visitors who leave comments via the comment system email addresses for visitors who opt to receive email notification when posts and comments are published in each case, cranky flier collects such information only insofar as is necessary or appropriate to fulfill the purpose of the visitor’s interaction with cranky flier. cranky flier does not disclose personally identifiable information other than as described below. visitors can always refuse to supply personally identifiable information, with the caveat that it may prevent them from engaging in certain website-related activities. protection of certain personally identifiable information cranky flier discloses potentially personally identifiable and personally identifiable information only to those of its employees, contractors, and affiliated organizations that (i) need to know that information in order to process it on cranky flier’s behalf or to provide services available at cranky flier’s websites, and (ii) that have agreed not to disclose it to others. some of those employees, contractors and affiliated organizations may be located outside of your home country; by using cranky flier’s website, you consent to the transfer of such information to them. cranky flier will not rent or sell potentially personally identifiable and personally identifiable information to anyone. other than to its employees, contractors, and affiliated organizations, as described above, cranky flier discloses potentially personally identifiable and personally identifiable information only when required to do so by law, or when cranky flier believes in good faith that disclosure is reasonably necessary to protect the property or rights of cranky flier, third parties, or the public at large. third party advertising cranky flier uses third-party advertising companies to serve ads when you visit cranky flier website. these companies, including google, may use information (not including your name, address, email address, or telephone number) about your visits to this and other websites in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to you. google uses what is called a doubleclick dart cookie for this purpose. if you would like to opt out of google’s dart program, click here. cookies a cookie is a string of information that a website stores on a visitor’s computer, and that the visitor’s browser provides to the website each time the visitor returns. cranky flier uses cookies to help identify and track visitors, their usage of cranky flier website, and their website access preferences. cranky flier visitors who do not wish to have cookies placed on their computers should set their browsers to refuse cookies before using cranky flier’s website, with the drawback that certain features of cranky flier’s websites may not function properly without the aid of cookies. privacy policy changes cranky flier may change its privacy policy from time to time, and in cranky flier’s sole discretion. cranky flier encourages visitors to frequently check this page for any changes to its privacy policy. your continued use of this site after any change in this privacy policy will constitute your acceptance of such change. share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site! send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.