home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy all posts in "create a book" 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller create a book tips for writers by dave chesson you know the feeling. it’s time to sit down and start planning your next bestseller and… nothing. well, continue reading > 4 steps to achieving your author dream create a book tips for writers by chandler bolt it’s not as hard to achieve your author dream as you may think. writing a successful book continue reading > after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened create a book by mary jaksch fast forward for a moment and imagine that you have just published a book. imagine finding your continue reading > top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 create a book tips for writers by kristen ford “don’t judge a book by its cover”- you must have heard it a zillion times yet you continue reading > how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 create a book tips for writers by mary jaksch nerves. you need steady nerves when you publish a book. my book, youthful aging secrets: live continue reading > how to write and publish your first book 8: why you need beta readers create a book non-fiction by mary jaksch what's the most stressful moment of publishing a book? you don’t know? well, i don’t know either. continue reading > how to write and publish your first book 6: the ‘imperfect’ author bio create a book by mary jaksch are you trying to be perfect? forget it! instead, you need to work on being imperfect. i know, i know, continue reading > how to write and publish your first book 7: the bestselling book cover design create a book by mary jaksch if you think of writing and publishing a book as a series of hurdles, finding a bestselling book design continue reading > how to write and publish your first book 5: creating a bestseller title create a book by mary jaksch when you write a book, there is a difficult moment when the end is in sight… you need to come up continue reading > how to write and publish your first book 4: master editing create a book by mary jaksch if you want to publish a book, you need to master editing. watch the video below to see how to go about continue reading > join over 2 million readers free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares 1 2 3 … 5 next » page 1 of 5 copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions > subject: can you help me out? thanks for helping me out with the cover for my book, youthful aging secrets. my book will be officially published on july 14th, that’s less than 3 weeks from now [gulp]. since you’re such a helpful person, i’d like to ask if you would be willing to act a test reader and give some feedback. your feedback will help to give the book its final shape and shine. if you are willing to join the ya posse, and have time in the next week to read youthful aging secrets and give me some feedback, i’d be really grateful. if you’re interested, please click here and a pdf my book will download for review straight away. thanks – you make a difference! if you don’t want to be part of the “ya posse” (the fun name for the group willing to lend a hand), please disregard this email. no hard feelings! warmly – maryx about the book youthful aging is the new paradigm. be inspired by 13 true stories of youthful agers who made their mature years the best time of their life. find out their secrets of getting the body back in shape, sharpening the mind, and boosting the creative juices. about the design the required dimensions of the cover are: 2813 x 4500 pixels. the imagery should be upbeat and make the viewer feel optimistic and confident about their ability to reverse the aging process and be inspired to think that retirement age is a door to a whole new, exciting and productive life. it’s important that the book ‘pops off the shelf” and catches the eye. the most important aspect for us is “does it sell”, not “does it look pretty”. so it’s very important that is catches the eye, is very polished, and very engaging and interesting.x