main navigation main navigation menu wordpress.com wordpress.com icon & logo. products features resources plans & pricing log in get started menu blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise overview themes plugins google apps support news expert tips navigation menu close menu get started add a new site › sign up › log in › about plans & pricing products blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise features overview themes plugins google apps resources news support expert tips you’re just a few clicks away from the website you’ve always wanted. wordpress.com gives you everything you need to create your website today. free hosting, your own domain, a world‑class support team, and so much more. start your website customize your domain name http:// infocusphotographers.com cortadocoffeesf.com leahrand.com avayoung.blog mightyleaftearoom.com register a new domain register a domain for your site to make it easier to remember and easier to share. bring your own domain already have a domain name? point it to your wordpress.com website in a few easy steps. connect your email use your custom domain in your email address by activating email forwarding, g suite, or other email services. every feature you need to create a powerful website plans for any budget start for free and get your website running quickly. upgrade for advanced customization and themes, additional storage space, and business tools. blog, website, or both build a blog, a full website, or a combination of both. write about your life, build a beautiful portfolio of your work, or build a robust business site — it’s up to you. intuitive editor our editor is fast, intuitive, and includes html and markdown support. we save your work every few seconds, so you’ll never miss a word. upload or embed media drag-and‑drop images into posts and pages. create designer‑worthy photo galleries. embed audio, video, documents, and more. optimized for growth wordpress.com has jetpack essential features built in, including site statistics, basic seo, and social media sharing. mobile and desktop apps update your site from anywhere with mobile and desktop apps for ios, android, mac, windows, and linux systems. pick from hundreds of themes for any kind of project you don’t need to learn web design to create the website of your dreams. browse all themes people love wordpress.com it’s been a great privilege and a life-changing experience. i’m grateful to wordpress.com for providing an affordable and user-friendly platform for individuals to launch projects and be heard in this way. ann morgan ayearofreadingtheworld.com i looked into what other bloggers whom i admired were using, and the cadillac of platforms is wordpress.com, hands down. the themes are breathtaking — even the free ones! — and all of the supporting infrastructure and information is top shelf. alexis kanda-olmstead alexiskanda-olmstead.com free to start, with 4 ways to grow. whether you want to share your ideas, start a business, or run a store, you can do it all on wordpress.com. free best for getting started $0 for life start with free create a beautiful, simple website in minutes. free best for getting started $0 for life start with free create a beautiful, simple website in minutes. personal best for personal use $5 per month, billed yearly start with personal add some personality to your website with a custom domain and access to 24/7 support. popular premium best for freelancers $8 per month, billed yearly start with premium build a unique site with advanced design tools, custom css, and google analytics support. business best for small businesses $25 per month, billed yearly start with business power your business with custom plugins & themes, 200 gb storage, and live support. ecommerce best for online stores $45 per month, billed yearly start with ecommerce open your online store with a powerful, flexible platform designed to grow with you. compare our plans › need an enterprise solution? wordpress vip provides everything you need to build and run best-in-class customer experiences at scale. plans start at $1,700/month.learn more › contact us to learn more. tell us about your goals and needs and a representative will contact you shortly. ready to get started? tell us about your needs. thank you for contacting us. we’ll be in touch with you shortly. first name * last name * work email * phone number company title/position industry message send go back to wordpress.com you asked, we answered! can i create a website in another language? absolutely. you can change your site language, which is the language your readers will experience at your site. you can also change the language you see while working on your site in the dashboard. the language you write on your website is up to you! will i have to pay for my custom domain? a free subdomain comes with your account. if you’d like a custom domain, you can add one to your site with the purchase of any wordpress.com plan. can i get an email account? email forwarding is included in a wordpress.com plan, and full email hosting is available through our partner g suite. will i be able to sell online? you can sell individual items on your site using your paypal account. for more opportunities to monetize, upgrade to the wordpress.com premium plan to sell products and services using the simple payment button. for more ecommerce features, like an online store, consider starting with a wordpress.com business plan. can i import content from another service? it is possible to import your blog content from a variety of other blogging platforms, including blogger, livejournal, movable type, tumblr, wix, typepad, xanga, and more. you can also import your content from a self-hosted wordpress site. where can i learn more? please visit our support site for more answers. join the network serving more than 20 billion pageviews a month start your website bottom navigation menu themes features blog stats vip terms of service privacy policy language: en an automattic mambo