home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy all posts in "creating author websites" creating author websites: the definitive guide creating author websites by mary jaksch if you want to be discovered as a writer, there’s an important question you need to consider.can agents, continue reading > have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? creating author websites by mary jaksch it happened to a gifted writer. in fact, donna tartt is so talented, she got the pulitzer prize for her continue reading > how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book creating author websites by kimberley grabas here’s the truth: every writer needs to know how to build a writer platform. are you a writer who continue reading > join over 2 million readers the best hosting option create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions > the most important function of an author website is to serve as your platform; the place where people can find you, your books, and your writing; to serve as a conduit for fans to connect and engage with you and others; to be a powerful calling card that sets you apart from other authors. ~ tom morkes, tommorkes.com x learn how to create a stunning ﻿author platform get this free report with 15 'plug and play' tips for author websites enter your email below and click on the button. click for instant access tweet pin sharex joel friedlander an effective author platform is built on the permission you receive from readers to interact with them on a specific topic. through your interactions—articles, blogs, presentations, speaking engagements, and more—your platform will grow based on the authority, trust, and likability your audience sees in you. the key things to consider when building an author platform are the persona you plan to inhabit; consistency of message, branding, and tone; and focusing your efforts on the places and methods of communication your specific readers prefer. joel friedlander, thebookdesigner.com tweet pin sharex when creating an author platform, writers should consider the big picture or long-term view of their careers. too many aspiring authors--or writers and bloggers--build a platform considering only the project at hand. they build a platform with blinders on to anything that they might produce later in their careers. instead, build a platform that serves you and all your projects now and in the future. create a career plan that includes all the books or blogs you plan to write. then build an author platform with this in mind. with this type of approach, you won't need a new platform (or additional platform) for each project. nor will you lose fans and followers when you release a new product or service (including a book) that isn't exactly in line with what you've published previously. your audience will expect this from you and want it as much as what you've released previously. nina amir, inspiration to creation coach, 9x amazon bestseller of such books as how to blog a book, the author training manual, and authorpreneur, and professional blogger. nina amir, ninaamir.com nina amir ninaamir.com tweet pin sharex kimbeley grabas: it’s easy to overcomplicate things, but the most important aspect to building an author platform is understanding that it’s about engagement. “author website” is just a word to describe all those creative and interesting things you do – combined together and building upon each other – to form a meaningful relationship with your community or “tribe.” it’s the bridge between the work you create, and the people who are meant to experience it. here is platform building boiled down to its most basic steps (but keep in mind that it’s not the “tools,” but the implementation that really matters): define and build your author brand. what makes you and your writing unique, and how will you translate your value to your audience? identify your target audience. who is your ideal reader? what are their wants, desires, values and interests? who are their influencers, and where do they spend their time online and off? find the intersection. identify and research what your true target audience craves, recognize the unique and meaningful aspects of what you have to offer, and align the two to benefit your ideal reader in an exceptional way. set up your author website/blog. your website is the epicentre from which you rule your author empire. build a responsive email list. your list (and the relationship you build with your subscribers) is your largest marketing asset. get social on social media. determine where your readers hang out online, and be there. focus on the needs and interests of your target audience, and give them what they want. kimberley grabas, ﻿﻿yourwriterplatform.com﻿ ﻿﻿ tweet pin sharex joanna penn think long-term when creating your author platform, because you will achieve what you focus on. consider what you want to be known as in 5 years' time. i made the mistake of starting my first blog around my first non-fiction book, career change, but i outgrew it very quickly as i realized that i didn't want to be a speaker on that topic and i ran out of content for blogging on that theme. that's when i started thecreativepenn.com, a site based more around my name and creativity in general, which means i can use it for multiple books or any creative project. i've never run out of content ideas in the last 7 years! also think about your audience, and if you have very distinct markets, consider starting another platform. i have jfpenn.com for my thriller fiction, and that helps me separate my two author brands. a fiction platform is more about the books as readers will find you on the online bookstores, whereas a non-fiction platform can be more integrated with blogging, podcasting and social media. thecreativepenn.com tweet pin sharex trena white as soon as i mention the phrase “author platform,” most authors assume i mean social media. but platform is about much more than that, and there are authors with very strong platforms who never touch social media. when you’re thinking about building your platform, it’s important to consider the many different elements of platform (for example: speaking engagements, workshops you offer, articles you write), and figure out which of them are most comfortable and natural for you to expand. if you despise social media, spending time trying to build a following on twitter is probably not a good use of your time. think about your other options. trena white, pagetwostrategies.com tweet pin sharex dave bricker creating an effective author platform can be done at little economic expense, but it requires time - time spent identifying reader communities, time spent creating content, time spent sharing that content, and time spent building relationships with readers. if your only product is a book for which you receive $5 profit, platform-building can be hugely unrewarding. in indie publishing, the author is usually a more viable product than the book. if your book wins you credibility that brings contracts, speaking engagements, and consulting work, an author platform can fuel your career. if your book is an art product - a novel or a memoir of non-famous you, promote it gently so it can be found, but don’t let the commitment to maintaining a blog and promoting a book drain the energy you need to write your next one. success comes in many forms and the literary artist need not be discouraged when an excellent book does not turn out to be an excellent product. be realistic about where you and your books live on the spectrum between art and business. invest your time and measure your rewards accordingly.￼ dave bricker, theworldsgreatestbook.com tweet pin sharex jeff goins i think the most important thing for an author to do is find their voice. some people will tell you to blog or start an email list, and all those things are great, but i wouldn't start there. yes. do those things. blog. capture emails. do the social media dance. but be careful what kind of tribe you attract without having first found your voice. if you build an audience without knowing what you have to say, then you're no good to anyone. so how do you find your voice? you practice. you share your work. you do all of the above. and slowly but surely, people—the right people—start to notice. good luck. jeff goins, goinswriter.com tweet pin sharex bryan hutchison the best advice i can give on creating an author platform is to network, network, network from the get-go. most people know this, but they all too often get it wrong, thinking they need to network only with influencers in their field. influencers are great, but you want to network with those who are in the trenches, just like you, trying to get noticed. network with as many of your peers as possible, consistently helping them in some way (sharing their work, perhaps) and before you know it you'll have connected with hundreds, eventually thousands, of people. when you do that and keep doing it, the influencers will not just notice you, they’ll start knocking on your door. i didn't initiate contact with guy kawasaki for an interview, after i started building my positive writer audience he contacted me. network, network, network - in the trenches, side by side. the #1 rule when connecting with your peers: be generous, until it hurts and then be even more generous. bryan hutchison, positivewriter.com tweet pin sharex