skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us let us help you build a blogging business and escape the ordinary welcome to create and go! get started with our free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners! start my free bootcamp! the plan is simple start and build a blog how to start a blog (step-by-step guide) 101 blog topics that actually make money 6 best blog sites and platforms blog design inspiration and tips grow your audience how to get traffic to your blog how to write a killer blog post 17 best blogging tips for beginners pinterest for bloggers (3x traffic) make money $$ how to make money blogging (10 steps) how much do bloggers make? most successful blogs (highest paid) blogging success: from poop to profits we help people just like you “i bumped my income up to $4,000-5,000 pretty quickly and that was mostly just through changing all of my email sequences. there is an email sequence module in six-figure blogger that just like changed my life.” natalie bacon – nataliebacon.com “if i’m going to start this, then i want to learn from the best. lauren and alex demonstrated the results, were detailed, and showed the process. and i instantly had that trust.” amira law – a self guru “i invested in myself and decided to take their course, six-figure blogger. i started focusing on their suggestions for my niche of physical therapy, and that generated an extra $1,000/month and that was in the first couple of months.” tim fraticelli – pt progress “everything you guys said on the sales page of what you deliver is what you deliver and more. you guys are truly what you sold.” bola sokunbi – clever girl finance “alex and lauren’s course “planted the seed” for me that i could actually make a business out of working online. i had truly never even considered the idea. but their sales page was so inspiring that i thought: well yes, of course, why wouldn’t i want to make money blogging?” rachel paul – college nutritionist how to start a blog we’re normal people who had a dream does life feel kind of dull to you right now? like trying to draw a pretty picture with a box of grey crayons? like many of you probably feel… when we started, we were sick of our jobs, sick of chasing the weekends, and sick of always feeling like there was more month than money. feeling unfulfilled. running endless circles on the hamster wheel of life. it doesn’t have to be like that. start building a blogging business can change your world just like it changed ours. you can read more in our full story: from broke and frustrated to $100,000/m blogging in 3 years hey y’all! we’re alex and lauren! we started out broke and frustrated in dallas, tx… and we wanted something more… then we found blogging and never looked back! since then, we’ve been able to travel all across the world… and have some truly life-changing experiences… all while making great money blogging… life can be extraordinary… and we can’t wait to help you get started! what makes us different? radical honesty is our #1 value there are a lot of scammers and fakes online these days. maybe you’ve fallen for bs before like we did and are now very skeptical when people talk about making money online. that’s why radical honesty is our #1 value. we present the truth, even when it hurts a little bit. but you’ll always know exactly what you’re getting into. we teach you how to build a real business this is not a trick, hack, or technique. not something gimmicky that will be here today and gone tomorrow. we’re teaching you how to build an online business that can support you, retire you, and enable to live the life that you desire. that’s the difference between us and the “wealth hackers” online – our businesses are here and are here to stay. we don’t just blog about blogging we didn’t just start out making money talking about making money. we actually started with a health and fitness blog that we grew to making over $10,000 per month! this was before we ever started create and go. get information from people you can trust with a system that actually works. for all niches. get started today with our 5-day blogging bootcamp! get the free training! recent blog posts how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) alex and lauren mar 24, 2020 open this window to get started with bluehost now.start with bluehost nowstart now are you … [read more…] about how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) blogging basics how to come up with a great blog name in 30 minutes! alex nerney mar 24, 2020 how does coming up with a great blog name in your niche without spending countless hours to get your … [read more…] about how to come up with a great blog name in 30 minutes! blogging basics how much does it really cost to start a blog? (2020 update) lauren mcmanus mar 23, 2020 the costs are beginning to add up and you’re wondering… but how much does it really cost to start … [read more…] about how much does it really cost to start a blog? (2020 update) blogging basics bluehost coupon code: 65% off + free domain name (2020) alex and lauren mar 20, 2020 bluehost is one of the largest and most mature web hosts on the market. having first launched in … [read more…] about bluehost coupon code: 65% off + free domain name (2020) blogging tools 10 popular and profitable blog niches that still work in 2020 lauren mcmanus mar 16, 2020 there is a lot of debate surrounding selecting the right blog niche these days… one blog says: … [read more…] about 10 popular and profitable blog niches that still work in 2020 blogging basics how to make money blogging [from $1 to $100,000 per month] 2020 edition alex nerney mar 16, 2020 we had no idea we’d make $103,457.98 our first year blogging. honestly, that number seems so fake … [read more…] about how to make money blogging [from $1 to $100,000 per month] 2020 edition make money footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions