skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more online courses create and sell online courses learn how online courses can help you create passive income and serve your audience. teach what you know serve your audience, create passive income online courses have quickly become one of the best methods for serving a niche audience. they give you an opportunity to teach what you know, going as deep into the content as your students need. creating a great course worthy of a premium price requires that you make a solid investment in time and effort up front, but when done properly, it allows you to build a solid passive income stream for your business. online courses were instrumental in growing the smart passive income business, and we want to teach you how to do the same for your business. when you create an online course, you can: focus on a specific topic and explore it deeply, much more so than a single blog post or podcast can cover. foster a deeply engaged community around your course's subject. facebook groups or slack communities are good tools for this. employ a variety of teaching methods, including video, audio, text, and exercises like worksheets. set up a passive income stream that allows you to determine your level of engagement. ask your students to complete homework that reinforces your teaching. charge a premium price for a quality learning experience. articles tutorials and case studies these articles, tutorials, and case studies will help you create, launch, and market your online course. view all articles on online courses how to create and sell an online course: the ultimate guide my ultimate guide to creating online courses! here are the three principles and ten practical steps you need for creating amazing, profitable, and life-changing online courses. the year of online courses (the results. the good. the not so good.) one of my 2017 goals was to create and launch powerful online courses. learn what went well, what could be improved, and what my plans are for 2018. 31 tips from 31 course creators on how to build and launch a successful online course entrepreneurs from various niches share their number one lesson learned from creating an online course. how to get the most out of an online course if you're going to take an online course, you need to know how to get the most out of it. here are ten things you need to know about online courses. 7 lessons i learned while testing & launching my first online course i've learned seven essential and inspiring lessons while testing and launching my first online course, smart from scratch, on teachable. strategies for getting course customers to take action in this post, i highlight specific strategies to help your course customers follow through and take action on what you’re teaching. recommended tool teachable offering online courses to our audience revolutionized our business a few years ago, and teachable made that possible. teachable is a market leader in the booming online courses industry. all of our online courses are housed on teachable because they make it so darn simple to configure content, manage settings, and sell to students. learn more podcasts online course podcast episodes listen in to hear the best of spi’s success stories, case studies, and advice for creating online courses. smart passive income podcast with pat flynn weekly interviews, strategy, and advice for building your online business the smart way. subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast60+ million downloads february 22, 2017 spi 254: lessons learned while testing and launching my first online course february 1, 2017 spi 251: (in the middle) launching a new course with new entrepreneur, sarah argenal june 22, 2016 spi 219: how meghan telpner's culinary nutrition academy makes you rethink traditional online courses june 15, 2016 spi 218: starting an online course? best practices and getting people to follow through with ankur from teachable.com april 13, 2016 spi 209: the power of community—how noah bradley made art camp more episodes askpat 2.0 a weekly coaching call on online business, blogging, marketing, and lifestyle design. apply for an askpat coaching call! you’ll be asked a series of questions about your business and will be given the opportunity to make a 30-second audio pitch for your question. see the full submission guidelines. and read the askpat privacy policy and terms of use. apply for a coaching call subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast12.5 million downloads october 3, 2019 ap 1088: how do i know what to create a course about and best serve my customers? july 4, 2019 ap 1075: how do my live workshops and online courses work together? january 10, 2019 ap 1050: how do i grow my business as a designer after a failed course launch? september 21, 2017 ap 0958: how do i make more course sales? august 9, 2017 ap 0927: why did you use teachable for smart from scratch®? march 20, 2017 ap 0825: how do i determine if my niche is right for an online course? more episodes want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less