about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ creamy roasted carrot soup 93 comments jump to recipe like carrots? you’re going to love this carrot soup recipe. it’s luxuriously creamy and full of incredible roasted carrot flavor. this classic carrot soup is a wonderful soup to serve with your favorite winter salads, sandwiches, and even holiday entrées. since carrots go well with so many other flavors, it’s a versatile soup to keep in your repertoire. you might be pleasantly surprised to learn that this creamy soup is actually made without cream. it’s a light and healthy soup, not to mention budget-friendly, too. i tried making the soup with sautéed carrots instead of roasted, but roasted carrots give this soup magical powers. if you’re a fan of my butternut squash soup or cauliflower soup, the method for this recipe will be familiar already. since i can’t help but play around with flavors, i came up with three fun and simple variations—carrot ginger soup, curried carrot soup, and thai curried carrot soup with lime. you’ll find details in the recipe notes. it’s about time this food blog had a proper carrot soup recipe, and it’s really four in one! how to make the best carrot soup you’ll find the full recipe below, but here are a few key factors. 1) roast the carrots roasting the carrots condenses their flavor, which brings out the carrots’ best sweet-and-savory notes. this step makes all the difference between a ho-hum carrot soup and a why-is-this-so-good carrot soup. 2) cook some aromatics and spices meanwhile, we’ll sauté some chopped onion in oil until tender. then, we’ll add some fresh garlic, plus ground coriander and cumin. the spices make the soup taste more interesting in a subtle way. (if you’re out of coriander or cumin, though, you can omit them.) cooking the spices in oil for about 30 seconds wakes them right up, while it mellows the garlic. 3) simmer to bring it all together then, we’ll add vegetable broth, water, and the roasted carrots when they are out of the oven. we’ll gently simmer them all together for 15 minutes to bring all the flavors together. of note: i’ve been experimenting with using water instead of vegetable broths in soups, and i rarely miss the broth. if you’re cutting costs or watching your sodium intake, water is a great option here. i’ll share my notes on this subject in greater detail soon. 4) blend in a stand blender stand blenders always yield ultra creamy results. immersion blenders don’t come close! that’s why i always recommend blending soup in a stand blender instead. i don’t like cleaning extra dishes, either, but the resulting texture is worth the effort. you can find my favorite blenders in my amazon shop (affiliate link). be careful while blending. let the soup cool for a few minutes before transferring to a blender, never fill past the maximum fill line (it could explode), and be careful near the steam escaping from the lid (it’s hot!). 5) finish with butter and lemon you won’t believe how much difference a tablespoon of butter makes at the end. once blended into the rest, it makes the soup taste more luxurious without dulling the other flavors like cream does (did you know that soups could be this creamy, without cream?). adding some lemon juice brightens up the finished product and brings it all together. three delicious carrot soup variations you know me—i couldn’t help but play around with this recipe. here are three truly delicious variations on the “basic” recipe. actually, let’s call the “basic” version classic instead. it does not taste boring! 1) carrot ginger soup another classic! the carrot ginger variation is especially good if you are under the weather, or trying to warm up from the inside out. add freshly grated ginger along with the garlic (see amounts provided in the recipe notes). 2) curried carrot soup this might be my favorite option. simply add some indian curry powder along with the other ground spices. carrots and warming curry spices are a perfect match. you can also add some ginger to this variation, if you’d like. 3) thai curried carrot soup you guessed it—add some thai red curry paste for a lively carrot soup with irresistible thai flavors. at the end, blend in some lime juice instead of lemon. this variation is especially beautiful when garnished with chopped peanuts and fresh cilantro leaves. please let me know how your soup turns out in the comments! i love hearing from you. wondering what to pair with this carrot soup? here are a few suggestions: arugula and wild rice salad with zippy lemon dressing farro and kale salad with goat cheese green salad with apples, cranberries and pepitas kale pecan pesto over pasta my favorite grilled cheese sandwich mujadara (lentils and rice with caramelized onions) looking for more creamy, lightened-up soups? here are a few more favorites to bookmark: classic tomato soup (lightened up!) creamy roasted cauliflower soup creamy roasted pumpkin soup roasted butternut squash soup print creamy roasted carrot soup author: cookie and kate prep time: 15 minutes cook time: 50 minutes total time: 1 hour 5 minutes yield: 4 bowls 1x category: soup method: blended cuisine: various ★★★★★ 4.8 from 42 reviews this homemade carrot soup recipe is ultra creamy (yet cream-less) and full of rich, roasted carrot flavor! it’s the best carrot soup you’ll ever have. recipe yields 4 bowls or 6 cups of soup. scale 1x2x3x ingredients 2 pounds carrots 3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided ¾ teaspoon fine sea salt, divided, to taste 1 medium yellow onion, chopped 2 cloves garlic, pressed or minced ½ teaspoon ground coriander ¼ teaspoon ground cumin 4 cups vegetable broth (or water) 2 cups water 1 to 2 tablespoons unsalted butter, to taste 1 ½ teaspoons lemon juice, to taste freshly ground black pepper, to taste instructions preheat the oven to 400 degrees fahrenheit. line a large rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper for easy cleanup, if desired. to prepare your carrots, peel them and then cut them on the diagonal so each piece is about ½″ thick at the widest part (see photos). place the carrots on the baking sheet. add 2 tablespoons olive oil and ½ teaspoon of the salt. toss until the carrots are lightly coated in oil and seasonings. arrange them in a single layer. roast the carrots until they’re caramelized on the edges and easily pierced through by a fork, 25 to 40 minutes, tossing halfway. (heirloom carrot varieties will roast in as little as 25 minutes, but regular carrots are more dense and typically require 35 to 40 minutes.) once the carrots are almost done roasting, in a dutch oven or soup pot, warm the remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil over medium heat until shimmering. add the onion and ¼ teaspoon salt. cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is softened and turning translucent, 5 to 7 minutes. add the garlic, coriander and cumin (if following a variation, see recipe notes for additions). cook until fragrant while stirring constantly, about 30 seconds to 1 minute. pour in the vegetable broth and water, while scraping up any browned bits on the bottom with a wooden spoon or sturdy silicone spatula. add the roasted carrots to the pot when they are out of the oven. bring the mixture to a boil over high heat, then reduce the heat as necessary to maintain a gentle simmer. cook for 15 minutes, to give the flavors time to meld. once the soup is done cooking, remove the pot from the heat and let it cool for a few minutes. then, carefully transfer the hot soup to a blender, working in batches if necessary. (do not fill past the maximum fill line or the soup could overflow!) add the butter, lemon juice (or lime, if following the thai variation), and several twists of black pepper. blend until completely smooth. add additional salt and pepper if necessary, to taste. add another tablespoon of butter if you’d like more richness, or a little more lemon juice if it needs more zing. blend again, and serve. this soup keeps well in the refrigerator, covered, for about four days, or for several months in the freezer. notes recipe adapted from my creamy roasted cauliflower soup and roasted carrots recipe. carrot ginger soup variation: add freshly grated ginger with the garlic and ground spices. use 1 teaspoon for subtle ginger flavor, 2 teaspoons for more prominent flavor, or 1 tablespoon for relatively spicy carrot-ginger flavor. curried carrot soup variation: add some curry powder with the garlic and ground spices. use 1 teaspoon (mild) or up to 2 teaspoons (somewhat spicy), depending on your preferences. for curried ginger soup, also add 2 teaspoons finely grated fresh ginger at this time. thai curried carrot soup variation: add thai red curry paste with the garlic and ground spices (be sure to choose a vegan/vegetarian option if you’re avoiding fish produces, such as thai kitchen). use 1 ½ teaspoons (mild) or up to 1 tablespoon (relatively spicy), depending on your preferences. substitute lime juice for the lemon. you might like to garnish your bowls of soup with some chopped roasted peanuts and fresh cilantro leaves. make it dairy free/vegan: a few options. one, if you enjoy the flavor of the blended soup without butter, you can skip it altogether. for more richness, you could blend in a tablespoon of good olive oil or use cashews instead of butter. soak ¼ cup cashews for 4 hours, then drain and rinse them (if you have a high-powered blender like a vitamix or blendtec, you can skip this). add the cashews when you would add the butter. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes curried red lentil soup with dried cherries and cilantro thai red curry with vegetables thai green curry with spring vegetables share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories budget friendly, christmas, dairy free, egg free, fall, gluten free, mediterranean, nut free, pack for lunch, recipes, side dishes, soups and stews, soy free, spring, thai, tomato free, vegan, winter ▸ ingredients carrots, curry, ginger ↢ newer perfect roasted sweet potatoes older ↣ 12 favorite kale salads (plus, how to make the best kale salad!) by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) nora crane january 26, 2020 i’m always on the lookout for another carrot soup recipe. this recipe looks delish, but my expiration date on pureed soups has long ago passed. i’m going to try this without pureeing, as i love a soup with a broth. bon appetit! reply kate january 28, 2020 i’m not sure how this will taste without pureeing as that really helps the flavors shine. i would be interested, though! reply hayley january 26, 2020 i love so many of your soup recipes; i know this will be another favourite too. can’t wait to make it! reply kate january 30, 2020 let me know what you think, hayley! reply hayley january 26, 2020 also just fyi for anyone who wants to make this soup vegan, i use vegan becel (margarine) in all of kate’s soups that call for butter to make it vegan & it works perfectly! reply kathleen january 26, 2020 hi kate it’s summer here in australia, but i can’t wait to make a big pot of this delicious sounding soup! a quick question, why peel the cartots? i’ve heard that a lot of vitamins and fibre are in the outer coating of vegetables. apart from onion and garlic, i keep my peels on. thanks in advance :) looking reply nancy nurse january 26, 2020 so what’s making this soup so creamy? please don’t say butter, since we don’t do dairy… it’s absolutely unbelievable but for the life of me, i can’t see any ingredients that would make it soooo creamy? are you adding cashew cream perhaps? although, i don’t see them. ★★★★★ reply kate january 27, 2020 hi nancy! it’s how everything plays together. the olive oil helps, too. let me know if you try it! reply donna january 26, 2020 much better when you roast everything together first, then put in dutch oven or heavy bottomed pot. i added a few parsnips to mine and thyme instead of cumin & coriander and definitely no lemon. this is now my favourite soup. reply kate january 30, 2020 thanks for trying it, donna! reply mark january 26, 2020 hi kate, wondering what i should substitute for the cheeses in your recipes. i follow a vegan diet and would like to try your recipes but can’t use the cheese. mark reply kate january 27, 2020 hi mark! it really depends on the recipe. typically, i provide a substitution at the bottom of the recipe in the notes section when i can. reply m.e. january 26, 2020 carrot soup is surprisingly luxe. even without butter – it tastes like butter. my favorite variation is adding tarragon and sometimes a swirl of coconut milk. it mimics a recipe from san francisco’s moma restaurant where it was topped with coconut milk foam. that’s too fancy-pants for my kitchen, but wonderful. ★★★★★ reply kate january 27, 2020 thank you for your comment! reply nancy w january 26, 2020 excellent soup! the butter and lemon were just the right finishing touch. i made it with water instead of veg broth. i’m going to make it again soon i’m sure. ★★★★★ reply kate january 30, 2020 thank you for sharing, nancy! i’m happy you loved it. reply alec whitelaw january 27, 2020 hi kate, try as i might (overnight), your recipes will not download. i know being an old male fart doesn`t help, but is there another route, as in pathway. after eighteen years i still get the s..ts with the way the language has been buggered up here. the recipes are great but easy to follow, and certain! regards alec reply kate january 28, 2020 i’m sorry to hear that! everything is working on my side and i don’t see an issue. possible a connection issue on your side? let me know if you are still having problems. reply jessica mccanse march 15, 2020 there’s a wonderful website & app called copymethat (free) that i use to “snatch” recipes from websites. kate’s website is not nearly as bloated as many other recipe websites, but sometimes i still do want to just “cut to the chase” and get the recipe info. copymethat has a browser plugin/button that is like magic for getting just the recipe from websites. from your copymethat account, you can generate shopping lists based on what recipes you want to use. (and i am also planning to make this recipe – and have already imported it into copymethat. i made kate’s spicy black bean soup the other night and my 14-year-old son ate almost the entire batch!) reply missp2u march 21, 2020 omg! thank you, thank you, wonderful lady for the cmt plug-in info. you’ve saved me hours and hours of time. i wish i could treat you to an ice cream, or a drink, or something… sincerely, jessica mccanse, you rock! <3 ★★★★★ reply rose january 27, 2020 oh kate. kate, kate, kate. yet another outstanding recipe. just finished making this and what a silky, smooth bowl of deliciousness! i did find i had to add a bit more stock paste (i use better than bouillon organic veggie paste) and a tad more salt, but otherwise, bang on. this soup would make bugs bunny drool! thanks so much kate, and will definitely make again!! ★★★★★ reply kate january 30, 2020 thank you, rose! i’m so happy you loved it. reply candy february 28, 2020 good tip on adding more bullion. mine is really creamy, but lacking taste. i’m at a place now that i can add it. ★★★ reply elia a january 27, 2020 love this idea- can i roast the carrots in advance (like 3 days prior to making the soup?) ★★★★★ reply kate january 27, 2020 hi elia, possibly. however, since i didn’t try it i’m not sure if they will loose any flavor or freshness sitting for a few days. reply paige cassandra flamm january 27, 2020 this soup look so yummy and easy! i can’t wait to try it soon! paige ★★★★ reply kate january 30, 2020 be sure to let me know what you think! reply kareninstlouis january 27, 2020 this sounds great. i will veganize it when i make it. will sauté in vegetable broth to eliminate the oil, and won’t be adding the butter at the end. i bet it is going to be fantastic. thank you for this recipe. ★★★★★ reply joanne rushen january 27, 2020 i made the thai version this evening am doing it was excellent. i am throwing all my other carrot soup recipes away! thank you for another 5* recipe. ★★★★★ reply kate january 27, 2020 i’m happy you loved it, joanne! reply jessi summers january 27, 2020 ooooh, i want to try this soon! the carrot ginger variation sounds especially appealing. reply robin january 27, 2020 delicious! this is soup is so comforting on a chilly night, and i love the creamy smooth texture without any cream. i made the curried ginger variation – will definitely make again. ★★★★★ reply kate january 30, 2020 i’m glad you tried it and loved it, robin! reply edith january 28, 2020 this is an absolutely delicious soup! i made the version with curry powder and ginger. we loved it. we have been inundated with lovely carrots in our csa winter share. this soup helped to make a dent in them. i didn’t use all the water because we like our soups quite thick but that was the only change i made in the recipe. ★★★★★ reply kate january 30, 2020 thank you for sharing, edith! reply carole larivee january 28, 2020 i just made the ginger carrot soup version and it was amazing! perfect supplement to aid in the speedy recovery or a bad cold. i added a cup of half and half instead of the lemon for a creamier taste. however, lemon would be slightly less calories so i may stick with that next time. very good recipe that i will make again! ★★★★★ reply eva january 28, 2020 my husband and i liked it! soup was delicious! we will now have to try the other variations. thank you. ★★★★★ reply kathleen january 29, 2020 hi kate wondering why you peel the carrots? reply kate january 30, 2020 hi kathleen! i find the outsides tend to leave a bitter taste and also helps to clean them. i hope this helps! reply cara january 29, 2020 really lovely soup and i’ve never been a fan of carrot soup. i presume roasting is the key here!. i was skeptical of all that liquid before pureeing but it turned out just right. another reliable recipe from kate! ★★★★ reply kate january 30, 2020 yes, roasting is key! i’m glad you liked it, cara. reply cheryl dennis january 29, 2020 hi kate, i made your creamy roasted ginger soup last night. it was very good and extremely tasty! however, i did finish it off in my vitamix. couldn’t help think i might have been able to make the whole thing in the vitamix and not had to worry about chopping onions etc… thought it best to follow your recipe since i was making it for the first time. would enjoy your thoughts on this please. thanks again for yet another great recipe. i will make this a regular at our house!,,,, reply kate january 30, 2020 hi cheryl! you want to chop everything and follow the instructions to get the best flavor. trust me, it’s worth it! reply regs january 29, 2020 that’s definitely delicious soup. really good for my kids. i will do that this dinner ★★★★★ reply kate january 30, 2020 thank you for your comment and review, regs! reply laura january 30, 2020 i am obsessed with your site! make one of your salads as lunch for the week almost every week and a cooked recipe for dinner very often too (i’m cooking for one so most of your recipes last me just right for a week of meals.) made this the other night (with over a tablespoon on ginger) and it is amazing, even better the next day and feels perfect for my bad cough! never been a fan of cooked carrots so may not have made it if i hadn’t already had such luck with your blended soups- before you i didn’t think i liked cooked cauliflower either :) you’re amazing! thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate february 6, 2020 i love to hear that, laura! thank you for sharing :) i’m glad you gave this recipe a try! reply mert bradshaw january 30, 2020 this is so good, perfect for lunch on a chilly day! my husbands comment, “outstanding!” ★★★★★ reply kate february 6, 2020 love to hear that, mert! thank you for sharing. reply julianne bramley january 30, 2020 made this tonight and it was amazing!! thank you!! reply jeanne february 1, 2020 made the curry ginger version. garnished with a sprinkle of fresh parsley. it was perfect! this soup is amazing! ★★★★★ reply kate february 3, 2020 i’m glad you loved it, jeanne! reply nicole february 1, 2020 this was delicious. i used cumin, cinnamon, and cayenne to season. ★★★★★ reply kate february 3, 2020 thank you for sharing, nicole! reply karen coupe february 2, 2020 this is the greatest carrot soup i have ever made! thanks. reply kate february 6, 2020 you’re welcome, karen! i’m glad you enjoyed it. reply eve february 2, 2020 love this recipe!!! i just made it and roasted all my veggies – carrots, sweet potato, red onion and garlic. adding the lemon juice and butter really added to the flavour!! reply sea february 2, 2020 thank kathryne, my child love carrot so much, they will love this soup. you are a super chief reply catherine february 3, 2020 i made this recipe yesterday in order to have lunch for this week. turned out very good. ★★★★★ reply kate february 3, 2020 thank you for sharing, catherine! reply mickey february 3, 2020 i made this soup for my boyfriend who had a terrible cold. it was delicious and he felt much better the next day! ★★★★★ reply kate february 3, 2020 i’m glad it was just what he needed! i appreciate your review, mickey. reply theresa february 4, 2020 fantastic idea for a wonderful winter soup. i love the detail and tips you give with your recipes. i changed things up a bit as i didn’t have a lemon so i added orange marmalade. i also threw in a handful of dry-roasted cashews. i’ve never used my blender for a hot soup, boy that worked like a charm and i’ll never go back to using my immersion blender for that process again. loved this recipe so much that i’ll be stopping by my local barnes & noble today to purchase your cookbook!! ★★★★★ reply kate february 5, 2020 thank you for sharing how you made this your own. also, thank you for getting my book! i hope you love it. reply kipchumba enock chepkuto february 4, 2020 tasty recipe, thank you ★★★★ reply kate february 5, 2020 you’re welcome! reply cassandra ruff february 6, 2020 wow! this recipe is bang on. i can’t get over how creamy, rich and flavourful it is! i normally find carrot soup to be a little flat…but this recipe is extraordinary. i added a little extra garlic, but otherwise, i made it exactly as written. i am already planning on making my next batch! another winner of a recipe kate, thanks for sharing! ★★★★★ reply jordan february 6, 2020 i thought i didn’t like carrots, but i made the curried ginger variation, and it was so good! i used two cups broth and the rest water, as the broth i have on hand is very salty. now to test if it freezes decently for later consumption… ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 i’m glad you still tried it, jordan! i appreciate your review. reply jordan february 24, 2020 following up in case anyone else is wondering – i froze several jars’ worth and have now thawed and eaten them, and it worked great. no weird changes in texture or flavor or anything. reply kate february 7, 2020 kate, this was unbelievably good! followed your recipe exactly and we loved it. can’t wait to experiment with the variations. so so good. thank you from another kate. ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 you’re welcome, kate! i’m happy you enjoyed it. reply kl february 10, 2020 absolutely loved this soup. thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate february 13, 2020 you’re welcome, kl! reply jess t february 11, 2020 i made this for my family tonight and we all loved it! another 5 star winner. thank you, kate! ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 hooray! i love to hear that. thanks for sharing, jess. reply maggie february 14, 2020 tedious, chopping all the veggies, but well worth it in the end. i made the thai red curry paste version as we like heat. 2-thumbs up!! ★★★★★ reply aunt sunshine february 16, 2020 i’ve made a ton of your recipes, have your cookbook etc. but this did not turn out well at all for me. even after i did a lot of “doctoring” to recipe it was sub par. too many other good carrot soup recipes out there to rely on this one. sorry kate, but i’m still a fan of yours. you get a “fail” every here and there. ★★ reply kristin heather february 17, 2020 i love this roasting method for cream soup, shook. ran out of butter, used earth balance spread, was “ok”, also used some moroccan spice blend ras el hanout bc didn’t have the separate ones called for, but the lemon balanced it out. think the butter would have made it richer, lol totally yummy. ★★★★★ reply annie february 18, 2020 so good! i misread the directions thanks to multi-tasking and added coriander, cumin and garlic to the roasting carrots (added a little more when i was supposed to during onion step). so tasty, will definitely be making this again. ★★★★★ reply nicole february 22, 2020 this was yummy! i don’t usually go for pureed soups but i had some carrots to use up so i went for the ginger curry version. i halfed the recipe for the amount of carrots i had but kept the spices at full strength as i like a lot of flavor. i didn’t have broth and so used water as per the suggestion, and didn’t add butter, and it was still delicious. thanks for the recipe! ★★★★ reply silvanna manrique february 22, 2020 i had been craving carrot soup for 2 weeks so i gave this classic carrot soup recipe a try and it was the bessssssst! i am about to print this recipe to keep it in my recipe book. thank you!! ps: i used vegan butter to make it vegan! ★★★★★ reply juanita march 1, 2020 i’ve made this soup three times now…it’s my husband’s favorite (i’ve made your lentil soup as well as your black bean soup, which we also love). i make it with about half the salt in the recipe, that’s my only edit because we are trying to cut down. ★★★★★ reply gabe d march 6, 2020 wow. what a great recipe! we’re trying to really minimize food waste, so for dinner tonight i looked at what was in the fridge and the carrots needed to get eated! i had a tub of mae ploy thai curry paste (accept no substitutes) so went that route, and it was delicious! i have a good stick blender so used that and it was very smooth. also added some fish sauce after testing on a small amount and liked that addition. i’m usually more of a lurker, but was such a fan of this recipe and can’t wait to explore your site to find some other new faves, thanks! ★★★★★ reply caroline nelson march 10, 2020 i cannot believe i have never made roasted carrot soup before! i had a ton of carrots in the fridge and thought i better use them up before i had to throw them out and i happened to stumble on your recipe! i always make my own veggie broth and used that and omitted water. i just realized i forgot the butter, but it was fantastic! thank you for the recipe and i will definitely make it again! ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 right! it’s a game changer. thanks for trying this one and letting me know you loved it, caroline! reply carol march 15, 2020 i love this soup! the color, texture and taste are supreme. kate, i don’t have a good stand blender and don’t like handling hot liquids. i just used my immersion blender and it worked beautifully. thanks for all the yummy recipes. ★★★★★ reply cheryl march 22, 2020 just wanted to let you know this soup is the best! my husband loves carrots and this is now my second time making this. your recipes are always the best… my only additions included a teaspoon of red pepper flakes to give it a little kick and 3 tablespoons of white wine. finishes nice and quick in my vitamix! hoping to get it in the freezer before it’s all gone… thanks kate ★★★★★ reply amy march 24, 2020 i made this recipe today and it is delicious!!! i am not a chef, by any stretch of the imagination — i wish i could say i even enjoy cooking (i really don’t), but i am lucky enough to be married to a man who loves to cook and create. however, today he had oral surgery and i knew he would need something easy to eat without chewing. i found your recipe and followed it to the letter – and it was perfect. it was actually much easier than i thought it would be. i used an immersion blender in the soup pot instead of transferring to a blender and that made it even easier. thank you for this wonderful, delicious and savory soup. amy p.s. my german shepherd was a little disappointed that there were no non vegetarian items in the ingredient list, as she usually likes to “help” with the extras. next time. :) ★★★★★ reply tamara march 25, 2020 made the ginger carrot version last night – trying to make sure my family keeps eating veggies during our isolation. we don’t eat dairy, so i threw cashews into the broth during simmer, then pureed. very delicious and satisfying, thick and creamy. thanks for the recipe! ★★★★★ reply kate march 26, 2020 you’re welcome! i’m glad you loved that version, tamara. reply tasha march 26, 2020 can you freeze this soup? reply kate march 27, 2020 this soup keeps well in the refrigerator, covered, for about four days, or for several months in the freezer. reply hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}