skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search creativity re-discover your inner-child like picasso: creative productivity in praise of repetition the eternal creative loop create! the goal is spontaneous creative activity ignore your haters. you’re on a winning streak ultralight photography how to see. creators shall inherit the earth. how to ignore your inner-critic how to unlock your inner-genius success is your only option how to make your photos more artistic creative lessons rick rubin can teach you about photography why i love shooting with an lcd screen how to shoot abstract photography how to be more spontaneous in your photography and life how to re-invent yourself in photography how to photograph like a child how to be a more imaginative photographer provoke never rust limit your palette follow your intuition have creative confidence in yourself how to find your unique voice in photography beginner’s mind there is no wrong way to shoot street photography you can’t control the results, only effort on capturing beauty in the mundane on searching for the maximum the beauty of “creative constraints” how to stay curious enjoy the process learn more: photography > primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta