worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » creative writing prompts 1 tweet creative writing prompts part one [1-50] if you could change one event in your life, what would it be and why? do you think the present would be different? would you ever buy a drink for a desperate, homeless alcoholic? why or why not? what is your biggest achievement? what made it so important to you? if you were a superhero, what would be your kryptonite? why? if you won the lottery, what would you do on the first day you got your money? why? if you could learn one musical instrument, what would it be? why? would you turn in a family member if they had committed a murder? why or why not? if you could have your ideal job, what would it be and why? how would your working day go? imagine you were given a free wish, but you had to wish something for somebody else. what would you wish, for who, and why? if you could have one day repeat over and over again for the rest of your life, which day would it be? why? what if you were only allowed to receive one type of gift (such as books, computer games, clothes) for christmas for the rest of your life? what would you choose and why? if you could have one superpower, what would it be? what would you do with it? what if scientists found that an asteroid was going to destroy the planet in one month? what would you do with your last month of life? if you were a type of sauce, which sauce would you be? why? imagine you get robbed at knifepoint and then the thief gets hit by a car. the car speeds off, nobody else is around, and he is in extreme pain but not dead; do you help the thief and why? if you were a two-dimensional shape, what shape would you be? why? if you could smash one thing in your house with no repercussions, what would it be? why? if you could spend 24 hours locked in a room with any person throughout history, who would it be? why? what is the worst thing youвђ™ve ever done in your life? why was it so bad? if you could freeze time whenever you wanted, what would you do? why? if you were a drink, which drink would you be? why? if you could change or invent one law that had to be implemented across the world, what would it be and why? do you think it would make life better? imagine that you could choose one type of weather for the rest of your life. what would you choose and how would it affect your life? who is the wisest person you have ever met? why? if you could be attractive and stupid or intelligent and ugly, which would you prefer? why? if you had to listen to the same song ten times every day or never listen to music at all, which would you choose? if you chose the song, which would it be? imagine you found evidence that humans were created as an experiment by an ancient alien race. would you tell the rest of the world, and why? if you could make one animal extinct, which would it be and why? do you think the world would be better? if you were allowed to erase one book from existence, in the past, present or future, which would it be? why? imagine you could program a robot to perform one day-to-day task for you for the rest of your life. what task would it be any why? if you could choose between having no emotions or no capacity for logical thought, which would you prefer? how would your life change? if you were a god, from any mythology, which one would you be? why? if your husband or wife told you that you had to get a divorce if you didnвђ™t stop seeing your best friend, what would you do? why? if you could only stay in contact with one of your friends, who would it be? why? what if you were offered a choice between a short life with a peaceful death and a long life with a horrific death? which would you choose and why? if you were a cartoon character, who would you be? why? imagine you were able to instantly master any academic subject, which subject would it be? would you change career as a result? if you were bitten by a vampire, would you live with the blood-lust or ask somebody to kill you before you turned? describe what your day-to-day life would be like as a vampire. if you had one chance to showcase any talent of yours live on tv, which talent would it be and why? do you think people would be impressed? if you could have a personal portrait done by any artist throughout history, who would you choose and why? what do you think the picture would look like? if you were a song, what type of song would you be and why? if you canвђ™t define it by genre, tempo or mood, describe it in any way you can. imagine that a new, deadly disease is infecting humans; you only have one vaccine, but arenвђ™t infected yourself. the vaccine is for an elderly relative, but on the way home you see a child youвђ™ve never met who also has the disease, what would you do? if you could make up a new rule for any sport, what would it be and why? would the sport be better as a result? if you could be locked in any shop for a night, and you couldnвђ™t get in trouble for anything you did, what type of shop would you choose? what would you do? invent your own ultimate chair. describe it and what any special parts would do. what is your worst habit? has it ever got you in trouble? invent a new religion. describe the god, if it has one (or many) and what the key beliefs are. if you were a character from any book, who would you be ? why? if you could become a ghost after you die, who would you haunt and why? what would you do to them if you could manipulate real-world objects like a poltergeist? if you were a member of the opposite gender, what would you look like? would your personality be any different? [1-50] (you're here) [51-100] [101-150] [151-200] [201-250] [251-300] [301-350] [351-400] [401-450] [451-500] [501-550] [551-600] busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...