menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies creepy creepy browse creepy topics close scary stories horror movies conspiracies true crime missing people haunted places creatures witches ghosts paranormal here’s what kind of cold blooded killer you’d be, based on your zodiac sign serial killers brie calvert 20+ terrifying and true ouija board stories scary stories chrissy stockton 32 people describe their super-creepy neighbor lorenzo jensen iii i invited a guy from tinder over, he didn’t look like his pics scary stories lane loomis “the new movie doesn't come out until march 20, 2020, but until then, you'll be able to remember all the fear and anxiety you felt while watching the original in the newly-released teaser.” p. claire dodson the man who gave people cancer when he shook their hand creepy jim goad i took the 50/50 challenge on reddit and saw a serious crime the cops should be investigating fiction holly riordan my sick obsession: serial killer karla homolka and female deviance mish barber-way latest creepy articles 10 unforgettable horror movie sex scenes jerome london “ let’s give the award to the movie where the woman’s vagina bites off her rapist’s penis. 7 mysterious cases that will take you down the rabbit hole true crime jordan windnagle “ since we’re all getting stir crazy, why not discuss mysteries that involve eerie isolation with a touch of mass hysteria? “covid-19/coronavirus” conspiracies: the master list coronavirus jerome london “ all the fake cures and fraudulent plots about novel coronavirus in one never-ending list. 7 self-care rituals to practice during the new moon self care nikki zarrella “ happy new moon to you! 30 horror movies to stream on netflix, hulu, and prime while you’re social distancing scary movies alison hinman “ quarantine and chill? 22 scary stories you shouldn’t read if you have a weak stomach january nelson “ my friend used to sleep with his window open. one day he woke up to a man staring at him from the window. 13 buzzfeed unsolved videos to watch just in time for the new season alison hinman “ it’s ya boys. how to stream free horror movies on shudder during the coronavirus pandemic horror movies emily madriga “ now shudder is helping to ease the coronavirus cabin fever by offering a free month of the horror streaming service to fans! i found an old diary in the attic i never should have read creepy january nelson “ it must have been abandoned by the last owners of the house. our realtor wouldn’t tell us anything about the couple other than the fact that they had both passed away on the property. the most debated mystery of our time: the disappearance of maura murray true crime jordan windnagle “ the disappearance of maura murray is perhaps the most highly speculated case of the 21st century. it’s been called the “the first crime mystery of the social media age” due to facebook’s launch 5 days before she went missing. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.