top navigation explore ew.com entertainment weekly ew.com entertainment weekly tv movies music books theater podcasts gaming events celebrity awards search close profile menu your profile down triangle previous your profile account join now email preferences newsletter manage your subscription this link opens in a new tab give a gift subscription this link opens in a new tab order past issues this link opens in a new tab logout login sweepstakes subscribe close explore ew.com ew.com entertainment weekly ew.com entertainment weekly search explore previous explore what to watch: here are the tv shows your favorite celebrities are binge-watching what to watch: here are the tv shows your favorite celebrities are binge-watching see what sterling k. brown, olivia munn, george r.r. martin, and more couldn't stop watching. read more next 32 of the most shocking performances ever 32 of the most shocking performances ever from madonna to beyoncé, these singers know how to put on a show. read more next stars who almost played iconic movie roles stars who almost played iconic movie roles find out which a-listers missed out on memorable parts read more next tv previous tv see all tv tv reviews tv recaps tv reunions movies previous movies see all movies movie reviews movie trailers film festivals movie reunions music previous music see all music music reviews concerts music festivals books previous books see all books book reviews author interviews theater previous theater see all theater theater reviews podcasts gaming events previous events see all events comic-con celebrity awards previous awards see all awards oscars emmys golden globes sag awards grammys tony awards profile menu subscribe this link opens in a new tab your profile down triangle previous your profile account join now email preferences newsletter manage your subscription this link opens in a new tab give a gift subscription this link opens in a new tab order past issues this link opens in a new tab logout login sweepstakes follow us home chevron right tv chevron right crock-pot defends its slow cookers after this is us tragedy crock-pot defends its slow cookers after this is us tragedy by dan snierson january 24, 2018 at 06:51 pm est save fb tweet ellipsis more pinterest mail email iphone send text message print comment this is us type tv show network nbc where to watch close streaming options tuesday’s episode of this is us didn’t just bring us thisclose to the very moment in which jack pearson will die — a raging fire was headed up the staircase — it also revealed the cause of said blaze. you can semi-blame it on friendly neighbor george, who gave jack (milo ventimiglia) and rebecca (mandy moore) his trusty old crock-pot, which he explained to them had a switch that you kinda had to fiddle with, but no worries, it still works. while cleaning up the kitchen following a busted super bowl sunday celebration 17 years later, jack turned off the crock-pot, but after he left the room, the switch somehow activated, sparking up, igniting a dish towel and creating an inferno that quickly worked its way through the kitchen. and, of course, with no batteries in the smoke alarm, a true tragedy was in progress. after the episode aired, this is us fans were quick to post on social media, taking out their anger/grief/sadness on the crock-pot, with some saying that they were throwing theirs out so they, too, didn’t perish in a fire. one fan wrote on the crock-pot facebook page that she hoped that crock-pot was planning a can’t-miss super bowl ad, given that people were tossing their slow cookers; she received this response from the brand: “jack pearson was our valentine so we equally understand your pain with his loss. we love him and we love you too. don’t further add to our heartbreak by no longer using crock-pot slow cookers, rest assured our products have been generationally tested by your family and friends.” another fan named ruthie pressed the brand for a response to the matter, noting that “so many people are worried now. crock-pot replied: “we’re heartbroken over last night’s episode too!… [w]e’re innocent until proven guilty.” image zoom nbc later in the day, crock-pot issued this lengthier and rather technical statement: “crock-pot understands the concerns brought up by last night’s episode of this is us, and we too are heartbroken by the latest development in jack’s storyline. however, it is important that our consumers understand and have confidence that all crock-pot slow cookers exceed all internal testing protocols and all applicable industry safety standards and regulations as verified by independent third-party testing labs. for nearly 50 years, with over 100 million crock-pots sold, we have never received any consumer complaints similar to the fictional events portrayed in last night’s episode. in fact, the safety and design of our product renders this type of event nearly impossible. “in addition, and most relevant to the concerns consumers are having after watching the recent this is us episode, our crock-pot slow cookers are low current, low wattage (typically no more than 200 or 300 watts) appliances with self-regulating, heating elements. the product is designed to cook foods over a longer period of time at low temperatures and the switches connect to only 1 side of the power line voltage, so there is never a high voltage applied directly across our switches. the switches within our slow cookers are subjected to additional internal testing, which includes a rotary knob endurance test, rotary knob force test and flame burning test and constructed of self-extinguishing, flame resistant material. “our hope is that the team at nbc’s this is us will help us spread factual information regarding our product’s safety. while we know their primary mission is to entertain — something they have continued to excel in — we also feel they have a responsibility to inform. just like many fans, we will be watching next week’s episode to see how jack’s story progresses and, regardless of the outcome, we want consumers first and foremost to know they are safe when using their crock-pot.” asked what words of advice he had for crock-pot’s public relations team in the wake of fears of fire-prone slow cookers, this is us creator dan fogelman told ew, “i just literally just sent out a tweet — because i was reading this morning the reactions to the episode — reminding everybody that this was a fictional crock-pot with a faulty switch that was 20 years old. so, i don’t think the entire crock-pot community should be blamed for this.” also on wednesday, crock-pot created an official twitter account, and it’s currently busy reassuring worried fans, which you can enjoy right here. the next episode of this is us airs feb. 4 after the super bowl. episode recaps previous s8 e7 recap homeland recap: hugh dancy is here, and he's hot by s7 e11 recap the blacklist recap: the call is coming from inside the house by s5 e6 recap outlander recap: jocasta's getting married in the morning... by s5 e6 recap better call saul recap: when push comes to tugboat by s5 e16 recap supergirl recap: curiouser and curiouser by s40 e7 recap survivor: winners at war recap: the queen abdicates her throne by s4 e18 recap this is us season finale recap: confessions, babies, and a sibling showdown by s3 e9 recap masked singer recap: t-rex eliminated, revealing huge youtube star by s3 e8 recap the sinner season finale recap: into the void by s3 e2 recap westworld recap: maeve returns by s2 e19 recap a million little things season finale recap: is everyone on this show cursed? by s18 e8 recap american idol recap: hollywood week comes to a close with the solo round by s18 e7 recap american idol recap: it's time to duet by s18 e6 recap the voice recap: let the battles begin by s17 e18 recap ncis recap: never con a conman by s16 e19 recap grey's anatomy recap: let the hooking up commence by s15 e13 recap supernatural recap: jack visits the garden of eden by s10 e13 recap the walking dead recap: here's how the show sends off danai gurira's michonne by s1 e5 recap devs recap: blasts from the past by s1 e4 recap little fires everywhere recap: the custody battle begins by s1 e2 recap the plot against america recap: the rise of lindbergh by s1 e10 recap star trek: picard recap: a hero, resurrected by next to see what else this is us’ creator had to say about last night’s episode — and what might happen in the super bowl episode — click here. this is us nbc’s beloved era-hopping drama tells the story of the pearson family through the years. type tv show seasons 4 rating airs tuesdays at 09:00 pm creator dan fogelman network nbc stream service hulu where to watch close streaming options by dan snierson advertisement comments close share options ew.com entertainment weekly magazines & more learn more subscribe this link opens in a new tab content licensing this link opens in a new tab sitemap connect follow us subscribe to our newsletter other meredith sites close other meredith sites allrecipes this link opens in a new tab all people quilt this link opens in a new tab better homes & gardens this link opens in a new tab coastal living this link opens in a new tab cooking light this link opens in a new tab diabetic living this link opens in a new tab eatingwell this link opens in a new tab eat this, not that this link opens in a new tab extra crispy this link opens in a new tab family circle this link opens in a new tab fitness magazine this link opens in a new tab fit pregnancy this link opens in a new tab food & wine this link opens in a new tab health this link opens in a new tab hello giggles this link opens in a new tab instyle this link opens in a new tab martha stewart this link opens in a new tab midwest living this link opens in a new tab martha stewart weddings this link opens in a new tab more this link opens in a new tab myrecipes this link opens in a new tab mywedding this link opens in a new tab my food and family this link opens in a new tab parents this link opens in a new tab parenting this link opens in a new tab people this link opens in a new tab people en español this link opens in a new tab rachael ray magazine this link opens in a new tab real simple this link opens in a new tab shape this link opens in a new tab ser padres this link opens in a new tab siempre mujer this link opens in a new tab southern living this link opens in a new tab traditional home this link opens in a new tab travel & leisure this link opens in a new tab © copyright 2020 meredith corporation. entertainment weekly is a registered trademark of meredith corporation all rights reserved. entertainment weekly may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. offers may be subject to change without notice. privacy policythis link opens in a new tab data policythis link opens in a new tab terms of servicethis link opens in a new tab ad choicesthis link opens in a new tab cookie preferencesthis link opens a modal window web accessibilitythis link opens in a new tab © copyright . all rights reserved. printed from https://ew.com close view image crock-pot defends its slow cookers after this is us tragedy this link is to an external site that may or may not meet accessibility guidelines.