home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads between the body and the soul: neri oxman reads walt whitman carl sagan on the power of books and reading as the path to democracy orson welles reads walt whitman’s “song of myself” labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks crossing brooklyn ferry: astrophysicist janna levin reads walt whitman’s stunning serenade to our interlaced lives across space and time “it avails not, time nor place… what is it then between us?… it is not upon you alone the dark patches fall, the dark threw its patches down upon me also.” by maria popova how few artists are not merely the sensemaking vessel for the tumult of their times, not even the deck railing of assurance onto which the passengers steady themselves, but the horizon that remains for other ships long after this one has reached safe harbor, or has sunk — the horizon whose steadfast line orients generation after generation, yet goes on shifting as each epoch advances toward new vistas of truth and possibility. walt whitman (may 31, 1819–march 26, 1892) was among those rare few. the century and a half between his time and ours has been scarred by pandemics and pandemoniums, hallowed by staggering triumphs of the humanistic, scientific, and artistic imagination. we made earth less habitable with two world wars and discovered 4,000 potentially habitable worlds outside the solar system. we gave all races and genders the ballot, and invented new ways of revoking human dignity and belonging. we beheld the structure of life in a double helix and the shape of civilizational shame in a mushroom cloud. we heard bob dylan, nina simone, and the sound of spacetime. but the most remarkable thing about it all, the most human and humanizing thing, is the awareness of this we as atomized into millions of individual i’s who have lived and loved and lost and made art and music and mathematics through it all. art by lia halloran for the universe in verse. available as a print. whitman understood and celebrated this intricate tessellation of being, not only across society — “every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you” — but across space and time, nowhere more splendidly than in his sweeping, horizonless masterpiece “crossing brooklyn ferry” — a poem that opens up a liminal space where past, present, and future tunnel into one another, a cave of forgotten and remembered dreams that invites you to press your outstretched living fingers into the palm-print of the dead, into whitman’s generous open hand, and in doing so effects, to borrow iris murdoch’s marvelous phrase, “and occasion for unselfing.” at a special miniature edition of the universe in verse on governors island, devoted to whitman’s enchantment with science, astrophysicist janna levin — an enchantress of poetry, a writer of uncommonly poetic prose, and co-founder of the whitman-inspired endeavor to build new york’s first public observatory — reanimated an excerpt from “crossing brooklyn ferry” in a gorgeous reading emanating the elusive elemental truth whitman so elegantly makes graspable in the poem. from “crossing brooklyn ferry” by walt whitman flood-tide below me! i see you face to face! clouds of the west—sun there half an hour high—i see you also face to face. crowds of men and women attired in the usual costumes, how curious you are to me! on the ferry-boats the hundreds and hundreds that cross, returning home, are more curious to me than you suppose, and you that shall cross from shore to shore years hence are more to me, and more in my meditations, than you might suppose. the impalpable sustenance of me from all things at all hours of the day, the simple, compact, well-join’d scheme, myself disintegrated, every one disintegrated yet part of the scheme, the similitudes of the past and those of the future. […] others will enter the gates of the ferry and cross from shore to shore, others will watch the run of the flood-tide, others will see the shipping of manhattan north and west, and the heights of brooklyn to the south and east, others will see the islands large and small; fifty years hence, others will see them as they cross, the sun half an hour high, a hundred years hence, or ever so many hundred years hence, others will see them, will enjoy the sunset, the pouring-in of the flood-tide, the falling-back to the sea of the ebb-tide. it avails not, time nor place—distance avails not, i am with you, you men and women of a generation, or ever so many generations hence, just as you feel when you look on the river and sky, so i felt, just as any of you is one of a living crowd, i was one of a crowd, just as you are refresh’d by the gladness of the river and the bright flow, i was refresh’d, just as you stand and lean on the rail, yet hurry with the swift current, i stood yet was hurried. […] what is it then between us? what is the count of the scores or hundreds of years between us? whatever it is, it avails not—distance avails not, and place avails not, i too lived, brooklyn of ample hills was mine, i too walk’d the streets of manhattan island, and bathed in the waters around it, i too felt the curious abrupt questionings stir within me […] it is not upon you alone the dark patches fall, the dark threw its patches down upon me also, the best i had done seem’d to me blank and suspicious, my great thoughts as i supposed them, were they not in reality meagre? nor is it you alone who know what it is to be evil, i am he who knew what it was to be evil, i too knitted the old knot of contrariety, blabb’d, blush’d, resented, lied, stole, grudg’d, had guile, anger, lust, hot wishes i dared not speak, was wayward, vain, greedy, shallow, sly, cowardly, malignant, the wolf, the snake, the hog, not wanting in me, the cheating look, the frivolous word, the adulterous wish, not wanting, refusals, hates, postponements, meanness, laziness, none of these wanting, was one with the rest, the days and haps of the rest, was call’d by my nighest name by clear loud voices of young men as they saw me approaching or passing, felt their arms on my neck as i stood, or the negligent leaning of their flesh against me as i sat, saw many i loved in the street or ferry-boat or public assembly, yet never told them a word, lived the same life with the rest, the same old laughing, gnawing, sleeping, play’d the part that still looks back on the actor or actress, the same old role, the role that is what we make it, as great as we like, or as small as we like, or both great and small. for other highlights from the first three years of the universe in verse, as we labor on a virtual show amid the strangeness of this de-atomized season of body and spirit, savor levin reading “a brave and startling truth” by maya angelou, “planetarium” by adrienne rich, amanda palmer reading neil gaiman’s tribute to rachel carson and his feminist poem about the history of science, marie howe reading her tribute to stephen hawking, regina spektor reading “theories of everything” by rebecca elson, and neri oxman reading whitman, then revisit whitman on optimism as a mighty force of resistance, women’s centrality to democracy, how to keep criticism from sinking your soul, and what makes life worth living. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published march 26, 2020 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2020/03/26/crossing-brooklyn-ferry-janna-levin-walt-whitman/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under booksculturejanna levinphilosophypoetrythe universe in versewalt whitman view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.