crouchended life in crouch end, bikes, trying to be green and other randomness greene & co guide to crouch end april 29, 2008 at 8:13 pm · filed under crouch end, london greene and co estate agents recently opened a new branch in crouch end, not that you might think that crouch end needs any more estate agents. however, a couple of things have caught my eye. firstly they produce an area guide that is available both online and in hard copy from a small box outside the office. they have also been distributing small canvass bags for shopping that zip up very small when you are not using them – handy! comments (1) guerrilla gardening on crouch hill? december 23, 2007 at 4:38 pm · filed under crouch end, gardening, islington, urban agriculture guerrilla gardening on crouch hill – or some kind of odd council gardening? it is right on the border of haringey and islington so it is not really clear who is responsible…. i might slip some daffodil bulbs in late at night! crouch hill comments asparagus, broad beans and garlic november 16, 2007 at 7:54 pm · filed under edible gardening, food, gardening, urban agriculture, vegetables very little can be started off in the veggie plot at this time of year – but there are a few things that can get started, that like the cold and provide some winter joy. asparagus isn’t one of them, but this is a good time of year to plant crowns of asparagus. these are young plants of one year, which can be transplanted live and replanted in another plot. this is very much a long term effort. although some tasty stems will grow next year, they must be left to add strength to the plants, meaning that in 2009 we should have a good crop of purple asparagus. in the mean time it is important to feed the plants as much as possible. i dug in lots of manure beneath the crowns before planting them – which should nourish the young shoots. i’m then going to inter-plant some broad-beans in the bed. as these are legumes, when they have died back in may/june their roots will be full of nitrogen, as they decay below ground this nitrogen is released by bacteria into the soil. there are other crops that are still in the soil that are overwintering are parsnips, cabbages, kale and broccoli. with some luck some of my swiss chard will survive too. i’m trying to overwinter some chilli plants and aubergines in little pots. the best thing i’ve discovered so far for winter is garlic – i ordered a mixed set of planting garlic from the isle of wight garlic farm – from which i’ve planted about 80 cloves, each of which should end up as 80 bulbs between may and august. there are seven different varieties – so they should be ready to lift at different times. in the mean time they push up green shoots , not unlike leeks (same family!) which give some green to the bleak winter garden. comments onion selling frenchman november 11, 2007 at 11:01 pm · filed under cooking, crouch end, cycling, food, health foods, local food, london, onions, shallots, vegetables on friday at around 5pm there was a man stood by a bicycle in crouch end outside woolworths, on the bike were bunches on onions and shallots. there was a small notice on the bike saying “stop me and buy one” so i did. the man had a ridiculously thick french accent, which led me to think he wasn’t actually french, but regardless he has plaited bunches of shallots and pink sweet onions for sale for £2. i bought some shallots, and very nice they are too (here they are hanging in my kitchen). no one else i know has seen him there before – did anyone else stop and buy onions? i should have taken his picture, but it was friday night, i wanted to get home….but paul kindly has taken a picture and put it on his site!. comments (4) pumpkins november 4, 2007 at 10:50 pm · filed under food, london, vegetables butternuts kids have been wandering the streets in halloween garb, there were fantastic fireworks at alexandra palace last night – this is the time of year when you get some amazing winter squash and pumpkins. there were some incredible huge examples at borough market on saturday – some of these are the size of a small child! comments the slums of crouch end october 3, 2007 at 7:44 pm · filed under crouch end, local politics how crouch end is this? an article in the local rag bemoans the slums of crouch end, that is the poorly kept flats above the boutiques and bijou shops. its a bit rich seeing as apart from the church, most of crouch end is younger than the crimean war, and most of “old” crouch end post dates the real heritage (crouch hall, the opera house, the manor house to name but a few) which seems to have been pulled down to create housing for victorian shop keepers. besides which there are worse examples. on top of crouch hill is a victorian semi that has beautiful stained glass but appears to have been renovated for the last two years judging from the rubble and timber outside. yet this debris is semi preferment and symptomatic of the general disrepair of the house. i keep spotting it off the w7, one day i’ll get off and get a decent picture. comments (3) hummus is the cause of middle class angst september 25, 2007 at 5:29 pm · filed under cooking, crouch end, food, health foods areas of london are judged by their media consumption – a quick search on upmystreet.com confirms that there are lots of people near me who read the guardian. you could also argue that you can tell much from an area by the amount of space in the chiller cabinets of the local shops dedicated to hummus. or at least, that’s what i suddenly realised on the way home when i stopped in at londis on ferme park road. i was buying milk – my eyes got drawn to a fridge with about 10 different varieties of hummus, plus similar varieties sold by different brands. it has made me wonder – how bad is the hummus habit of the crouch end middle class that it can support beetroot hummus? ok so i made that one up – literally, i’m so far gone that my own habit means only homemade hummus can satisfy the cravings. over the next few weeks i’m going to note how many different varieties there are on offer in different local outlets – prepare to be shocked! comments older entries » animals art cider cooking creative recycling crouch end cycling edible gardening education environmental famous food gardening health foods islington kittens local food local politics london msc pubs running solar solar power squatters sustainability sustainable clothing uncategorized urban agriculture vegetables harringey flicker pool more photos londonist londonist in your living room 27 march 2020: bringing you the best of london last orders: an ode to london's padlocked pubs watch dazzling dance performances for free via sadler's wells' digital stage this comedy theatre is doing online improv classes classic london songs that don't quite work in the time of coronavirus restaurants, bars and shops doing discounts for nhs staff londonist in your living room 26 march 2020: bringing you the best of london the london eye is turning blue tonight, in honour of our nhs heroes national theatre at home: watch top-notch shows online for free team gb is broadcasting the whole london 2012 opening ceremony on facebook today march 2020 m t w t f s s 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 « apr pages the train in spain goes mainly on the plain why crouch end? categories ale animals art beer celebs chewing gum cider container cooking creative recycling crouch end cycling distance learning edible gardening education environmental famous food gardening glastonbury hanging basket health foods herbs islington kittens local food local politics london mobile phone msc onions pubs recycling running shallots solar solar power squatters sustainability sustainable clothing uncategorized urban agriculture vegetables archives archives select month april 2008 (1) december 2007 (1) november 2007 (3) october 2007 (1) september 2007 (4) august 2007 (1) july 2007 (1) june 2007 (5) may 2007 (7) april 2007 (5) march 2007 (1) february 2007 (6) january 2007 (4) december 2006 (12) november 2006 (8) recent comments complete kitchen on keeping the cats off the veget… cooker hoods on keeping the cats off the veget… chicken on onion selling frenchman effy on keeping the cats off the veget… cat scarer on keeping the cats off the veget… blog stats 19,018 hits howies blog an error has occurred; the feed is probably down. try again later. jonathon porritt’s blog an error has occurred; the feed is probably down. try again later. i see famous people ∎ pdf gratis eating disorders sourcebook 5th ed health reference 9780780816817 reference books ∎ pdf free ripples from the edge of life roland chesters 9781781327098 books ≡ read free loop anne simpson 9780771080753 books ⇒ pdf free the monk who sold his ferrari (audible audio edition) robin sharma inc sharma leadership international books ⋙ descargar gratis les femmes lauréates du premier prix de rome de composition musicale 1913 1966 french edition carole berthowoolliams books ⇒ descargar early modern dialogue with islam antonio de sosa topography of algiers history languages and cultures of the spanish and portuguese worlds dr antonio de sosa maría antonia garcés diana de armas wilson 9780268029784 books ⇒ [pdf] la firma de dios spanish edition grant jeffrey 9780883684887 books ⋙ [pdf] free cairn terrier calendar only dog breed cairn terrier calendar 2016 wall calendars dog calendars monthly wall calendar by avonside megacalendars 9781782085522 books [u5b]≫ descargar gratis how to write for television madeline dimaggio 9781416570455 books ≡ pdf gratis queer injustice the criminalization of lgbt people in the united states queer ideas/queer action joey l mogul andrea j ritchie kay whitlock 9780807051153 books noel lynch the department for work and pensions has admitted... what next after the failed (nuclear) non-proliferation review conference london green party monthly speakers meeting there is much panic at the moment amongst politicians....... noel on bright green far from being a drain on the nation, migrants actually make britain a more prosperous place voting for the green party london assembly list my letter in the evening standard, 4/8/15 jack the ripper demo the limerick soviet urban-agriculture « wordpress.com tag feed how many plants do i need? new book: achieving sustainable urban agriculture cottage city spring garden registration what is the collaborative agriculture project? interview// manu cara mudah menanam tomat dengan setek interview// laurie ouding discussion of phd thesis by victoria sachsè "l’agriculture urbaine, terreau de participation citoyenne” personal reflections on the start of a fulbright grant announcement// the 10 laws of #nomoneynoborders spud grubber – rhs vegetable blog an error has occurred; the feed is probably down. try again later. hornsey and crouch end journal an error has occurred; the feed is probably down. try again later. blogroll adventures with veg beansprouts bificurated carrots daughter of the soil horicultural howies i see famous people people tree ragged raddishes soilman stonehead welsh girl’s allotment what do you do with radicchio???? wiggle wordpress.org cooking adventures with veg what do you do with radicchio???? crouch end crouchender i see famous people crounch end bloggers crouchender da crouch end massive friendly to vampires the crouch end blog cycling harringey critical mass 2005 harringey cycling campaign howies two wheels good wiggle edible gardening adventures with veg bificurated carrots daughter of the soil horicultural ragged raddishes stonehead urban bumpkin welsh girl’s allotment ethical living beansprouts food adventures with veg bificurated carrots horicultural what do you do with radicchio???? gardening adventures with veg bificurated carrots horicultural stonehead running crouch end fun run crouch end running club harringey running howies wiggle sustainability beansprouts sustainable clothing howies people tree credits get a free blog at wordpress.com the fjords04 theme crouchended blog at wordpress.com. privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy post to cancel