editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. editors' blog news muckraker cafe podcast send comments and tips joe ragazzo have a tip? send it here! joe ragazzo is the executive publisher at tpm, overseeing the design, product and revenue staffs out of the new york city office. joe used to be a journalist but realized if some journalists don't figure out how to make journalism financially sustainable, there won't be any left. he also says go browns. joe@talkingpointsmemo.com | @jragazzo today was just a preview by joe ragazzo | march 26, 2020 2:50 p.m. this morning the labor department announced 3.28 million people filed for unemployment, the largest one-week number in united states history. this is a shocking number. it beat analyst estimates by nearly one million claims. it’s four times the previous record. yet, the worst is certainly ahead of us. read more billionaires are an existential threat to democracy billionaire candidates have become a feature of this year’s democratic presidential contest. but should they exist at all? by joe ragazzo | february 25, 2020 7:00 a.m. why media executives keep failing journalism needs journalists running the operations or nothing will change. by joe ragazzo | november 27, 2019 1:36 p.m. what we can do with your support by john light and joe ragazzo | september 24, 2019 4:43 p.m. we often hear from readers (sometimes, painfully, former readers) that they wish we covered climate change more, among other issues. and we do, too. it’s one of the most important political stories of our lifetimes. historically, tpm has favored news and investigations on which we can break ground where other outlets haven’t. we’ve been less likely to cover larger, slower moving, but ultimately existentially critical stories. but last week, we devoted a significant amount of our resources to focusing on the climate story. and it was our membership model that allowed us to do it. so please take a moment to join if you’re not already a member. read more unions, media companies and tpm by joe ragazzo | june 6, 2019 12:27 p.m. i was on vacation last week when i got the news that the tpm union had ratified the contract we’d agreed upon. without a doubt, the union makes tpm a better company. now that i’m back in the office, i wanted to talk a bit about why. some of tpm’s longtime readers may know me but most of you will not so let me introduce myself. i’m joe ragazzo, executive publisher at tpm. in my previous life i was a journalist but moved over to the “business” side because it upset me how the news industry was dying and i hoped in some small way i could help improve it. we have three simple goals at tpm. we want to do great journalism. we want to be the best media company at which to work. we want to make enough money to do the first two things. read more former reagan advisor hosting q&a in the hive, thurs. @ 1:30 pm by joe ragazzo | november 27, 2017 2:01 p.m. bruce bartlett has spent many years in government, including service on the staffs of representatives ron paul and jack kemp and senator roger jepsen. he has been executive director of the joint economic committee of congress, senior policy analyst in the reagan white house, and deputy assistant secretary for economic policy at the treasury department during the george h.w. bush administration. a new york times best-selling author, he’s published more than 2,100 articles in major national publications. bruce will be in the hive to chat about his new book, “the truth matters: a citizen’s guide to separating facts from lies and stopping fake news in its tracks,” which focuses on the concept of “fake news” and offers solutions to combat it. post your questions and join us on thursday! if you’d like to participate but don’t have tpm prime, sign up here. author of “the dangerous case of donald trump” hosting q&a in the hive thurs. @ 1pm by joe ragazzo | november 13, 2017 1:23 p.m. dr. bandy lee is a violence studies specialist. trained as a psychiatrist at yale and harvard universities, she focused on public-sector work as chief resident and on anthropological research in east africa as a fellow of the national institute of mental health. bandy recently published “the dangerous case of donald trump,” a book that offers insight into president donald trump’s mental state from herself and over two dozen other mental health experts. based on their evaluations, their consensus is that trump presents a clear and present danger to the country. you can read a mother jones interview with one of the book’s co-authors here. bandy will be in the hive to discuss her book and diagnosing trump. post your questions and join us on thursday! if you’d like to participate but don’t have tpm prime, sign up here. media critic & journalism prof. hosting q&a in the hive wed. @ 3pm by joe ragazzo | november 6, 2017 9:05 a.m. professor jay rosen has been on the nyu journalism faculty since 1986, and from 1999 to 2005 he served as chair of the department. he is also the author of pressthink, a weblog about journalism and its ordeals. as a press critic and reviewer, jay has published in the nation, columbia journalism review, the chronicle of higher education, the new york times, the washington post, the los angeles times, newsday and others. he has a ph.d. from nyu in media studies. jay will be in the hive to discuss journalism and media in the trump era. post your questions and join us on wednesday! if you’d like to participate but don’t have tpm prime, sign up here. vote vets dir. of gov. affairs hosting a q&a in the hive thurs. @ 1pm by joe ragazzo | october 30, 2017 7:04 p.m. will fischer is a nationally recognized progressive leader. a decorated marine corps veteran of the war in iraq, he is the director of government affairs for votevets, which, with more than 500,000 members, is the largest progressive veterans organization in america (and was also blocked on twitter by president donald trump in june). prior to his work at votevets, will spent nearly a decade working at the national afl-cio and in a variety of political, legislative, and organizing campaigns across the country. will will be in the hive to discuss veterans, military, and foreign policy. post your questions and join us on thursday! if you’d like to participate but don’t have tpm prime, sign up here. professor of health policy & management hosting a q&a in the hive thurs. @ 2pm by joe ragazzo | october 24, 2017 9:20 a.m. gerald kominski is a professor of health policy and management and director of the ucla center for health policy research. his research focuses on evaluating the costs and financing of public insurance programs, including medicare, medicaid, workers’ compensation. gerald received his ph.d. in public policy analysis from the university of pennsylvania wharton school in 1985, and his a.b. from the university of chicago in 1978. gerald will be hosting a q&a in the hive to discuss health care, cbo scores, single-payer, and more! post your questions and join us on thursday. if you’d like to participate but don’t have tpm prime, sign up here. 1 2 3 … 15 more → masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy