cart 0 about nutrition coaching media & press resources blog contact free clarity call cart 0 aboutnutrition coachingmedia & pressresourcesblogcontact free clarity call scroll feeding confidence that starts with you helping you bring joy back to eating start your journey hi, i'm crystal! i help overwhelmed mamas nurture a peaceful relationship with food and their bodies so they can confidently nourish their kids, end the battles at the dinner table and bring joy back to eating. as a mama of 5, registered dietitian nutritionist, lactation consultant, and an online nutritionist coach for moms, i'm committed to supporting you along your journey; because when you thrive, your family does too. read more “after working with crystal, i feel like i have found the freedom i’ve always wanted that has come from healing my relationship with food and my body. now my kids have a confident mother who enjoys food and shares that joy with them.” — naomi w. read more stories as seen in nutrition coaching i know you want to have peace and confidence in feeding your family. in order to do that, you need an easy-to-follow plan that allows for freedom and flexibility for the entire family, beginning with you. with so many mixed messages about how to get healthy, it's easy to get confused and overwhelmed. i understand because i used to be too. after discovering what worked for myself, i've spent the last ten years combatting diet culture and helping women find clarity through the chaos. i'd love for you to be next. let's work together book a free clarity call free guide get my free guide of 5 healthy habits every mom desires for her kids (that she needs too!). the incessant thoughts of food and body image can end with you and not carry over to your children. let's embody the habits we desire for them ourselves. learn more the blog inspiration for your journey through motherhood. featured is it okay to reward kids with sweets and candy? 5 things to focus on when feeding your family in times of uncertainty eating veggies won’t save your child’s health, but here’s what can help eating disorder recovery: my story and hope for moms struggling daniel tiger: how diet culture shows up and how to protect your kids girls self esteem: how to help your daughter with body changes view more home - banner home - about home - as seen in home - services home - free guide home - blog feed crystal c. karges services (760) 580-9815 crystal@crystalkarges.com contact e: crystal@crystalkarges.com p: (760) 755-7555 based in san diego, ca. online nutrition coaching offered worldwide. follow join the community & stay connected! get the latest news, free resources, and health tips to keep you nourished on the journey ahead. email address sign up thank you! © 2020 crystal c. karges | all rights reserved | design by lr creative terms & conditions | privacy policy | disclaimer