culture design basics culture design services end-to-end culture design™ culture walls™ ceo culture study case studies united states air force at&t toppel career center university of miami blog contact our team get inspired press menu gapingvoid culture design group search our work the daily email - sign up for insights & inspiration! culture design™: creating influence for leaders to drive outstanding business results most leaders are shocked to know that their employees are in the dark about their strategy, even though they’ve ‘been told a hundred times’. the fact is that people are overwhelmed. emails are deleted or go unopened. people are multitasking in every meeting. comms teams have a hundred competing priorities. given all that, strategies become hard to execute. the ability to influence becomes a huge challenge. the tension is, as a leader, personal success is wholly dependent on influence. influence is important because it directly affects behavior, how and why people work. however, there aren’t many tools to create and scale influence. what is needed is a system to inform decision making, that aligns behavior, and unites people with a common purpose…a purpose that drives outcomes. the answer is culture. culture is the way to create influence: the collection of beliefs, mindsets, mental models, values, principles, world views, and attitudes that inform the behaviors driving operational outcomes. when well-executed, it aligns and focuses the organization. it reduces complexity and makes operations less chaotic. this is why the decision to deliberately design your culture is fundamentally a strategic one. if culture is not designed, business outcomes will be random. you may be experiencing that now? culture design™ gives leaders a new strategic tool to consistently drive outstanding outcomes and extraordinary execution. whatever change is needed, whether it’s a complete culture redesign, strengthening diversity and inclusion, creating vibrant innovation or solidifying digital transformation, culture design creates alignment between leadership, influence and business outcomes by turning change into a movement. designing a high-purpose culture™ designing a high-purpose culture™ can start now and from anywhere inside your business. we apply culture as a management system to any strategic initiatives you’re exploring: high-purpose culture™ is based upon a model we developed with bj fogg at the stanford behavior design lab. it is designed based upon two main factors, 1) what we call the future motivated state and 2) articulated beliefs. we define the future motivating state and then design that vision into the language and norms that will shift behaviors toward that future outcome. this work often includes manifestos, missions, semiotics and other strategic positioning along with communications to help drive more meaning and purpose in the business. register for our ceo study to discover how culture directly affects ceo and organizational performance. are you ready to work with us? contact us home culture design services press our team blog contact us subscribe for free privacy policy © 2020 · gapingvoid