editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. news latest 36 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 37 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 40 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime cuomo pushes back on trump’s ventilator skepticism: ‘i operate on facts’ new york governor andrew cuomo (d) speaks to the press in new york city on march 27, 2020. (photo by bryan r. smith/afp via getty images) by cristina cabrera | march 27, 2020 1:11 p.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. new york gov. andrew cuomo (d) on friday countered president donald trump’s statement that he doesn’t “believe” the empire state needs tens of thousands of ventilators for hospital workers to treat covid-19 patients. on thursday night, trump claimed that the number of ventilators cuomo had requested was excessive. “i don’t believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators,” he told fox news host sean hannity. “you go into major hospitals sometimes and they’ll have two ventilators, and now all of a sudden they’re saying ‘can we order 30,000 ventilators?'” “everybody is entitled to their own opinion,” cuomo said on friday during a press conference from manhattan’s javits center, which is being turned into a hospital. “but i don’t operate here on opinion. i operate on facts and on data and on numbers and on projections.” the governor pointed to estimates from the centers for disease control and prevention and other health experts, which have projected that new york will need approximately 140,000 hospital beds and 40,000 ventilators when the coronavirus outbreak in the state reaches its apex. “those are numbers, zach,” cuomo told a reporter. “not ‘i feel,’ ‘i think,’ ‘i believe’ ‘i want to believe.’” “make the decisions based on the data and the science,” he continued. “and we’re following the data and the science, and that’s what the data and the science says.” cuomo also stated that there are now over 44,000 covid-19 cases in new york, which has become the epicenter of the outbreak in the u.s. near the end of the press conference, the governor concluded his speech one of the most new york ways possible: “i say, my friends, that we go out there today and we kick coronavirus’ ass.” watch cuomo below: gov. cuomo responds to trump saying ny doesn't need extra ventilators: "i operate on facts and on data and on numbers and on projections. " pic.twitter.com/jt3kvnplcx — tpm livewire (@tpmlivewire) march 27, 2020 cristina cabrera (@crismcabrera) is a newswriter at tpm based in new york. she previously worked for vocativ, usa today and ny1 news. have a tip? send it here! includes: andrew cuomocovid-19donald trump more in news 36 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 37 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 40 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy