content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search customer experience consulting we help you turn your customers into volunteer marketers more than 80% of cmos say they now compete with other brands primarily on the basis of customer experience. why? because product features, price, and availability have largely been commoditized in a hyper-connected, always-on world. to win hearts, minds, and wallets your organization must deliver an experience that meets or exceeds the ever-escalating expectations of customers. and that’s not easy. because, you see, “customer experience” as we often think about it today isn’t one thing. not even close. customer experience is the totality of interactions and intersections that dictate how customers feel about your organization. dozens (or hundreds) of micro-moments that determine whether you’re victorious. how can you determine which of these interactions impact customer attitudes most, and how can you design/optimize them to not only delight people but get them proactively spreading the word about your cx? we can help. we’ll work with you to determine what your customers really want (and need), where you’re exceeding those expectations, and where you may be falling short. we’ll evaluate your customer experience versus your key competitors (if you like) and determine what you need to improve, enhance, add, or delete to delight customers and spawn all-important word of mouth. we’ll also work to make sure you’re measuring cx optimally, whether you’re doing so from a b2c or b2b perspective. we use our decades of experience, proprietary audience insights, competitive analysis, advanced metrics system, and detailed research to craft customer experience optimization programs that drive meaningful business results. our clients and case studies speak for themselves. how we work while we’ll tailor to your organization’s circumstances, many of our assignments look like this: deep research. we look at your business/organization, category, competition, current cx initiatives, customer insights, analytics, and more. qualitative analysis. 1:1 conversations with key stakeholders on your team, as well as interviews with prototypical customers and prospects quantitative analysis. deep social listening, detailed surveys of current customers, prospects, and lapsed customers to study key perspectives, attitudes, cx patterns and outliers, csat review, and more strategy summary. assessment and overview of customer experience current and future states, including themes, messaging, calls to action, obstacles and hurdles, audiences/personas, metrics and measurement, and cx optimization sequencing. this deliverable also includes an unveiling of the key strategic transformations necessary to exceed customer expectations at critical touchpoints and produce word of mouth. this is the “what” of our work. operations playbooks. highly detailed documents (typically 2-3) that specify precisely what needs to be done to consistently and accurately put into practice the new/improved cx processes described in the strategy summary. this is the “how” of our work. ongoing counsel. lightweight weekly support to answer questions, refine playbooks, connect dots, and pitch in where needed. this is like personal training for customer experience optimization. in addition to our customer experience consulting programs, we also deliver content marketing consulting for our clients, and provide customer experience and customer service training via workshops, keynote presentations, and boot camps. speak to a convince & convert strategist let's schedule a call to chat about your marketing goals and challenges. a convince & convert strategist will get back to you within 1 business day (or sooner) to schedule your call. we can't wait to chat with you! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept