skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download custom fonts by brainstorm force details reviews installation support development description this plugin helps you easily embed custom fonts files (woff2, woff, ttf, svg, eot, otf) easily in your wordpress website. currently, it works with: astra theme beaver builder theme beaver builder plugin elementor page builder how does it work? install the plugin upload the font files in as many formats as possible for best browser compatibility. and done. you will be able to see the fonts added in the settings of astra / beaver builder / elementor. please refer screenshots. if you’re not using any of the supported plugins and theme, you can write the custom css to apply the fonts. screenshots add new custom font select your any custom font into the customizer of astra theme installation upload the plugin files to the /wp-content/plugins/custom-fonts directory, or install the plugin through the wordpress plugins screen directly. activate the plugin through the ‘plugins’ screen in wordpress use the appearance -> custom fonts -> add custom fonts name, woff2, woff, ttf, eot, otf and svg files. reviews great plugin! zabavljaev february 3, 2020 great plugin! while i do not need to use it, but i understand that for many it will be very useful. very simple. mardwan september 13, 2019 could use this in my sleep. and it worked for me :d. awesome dirkje evers september 9, 2019 awesome plugin. saves a lot of time. this is awesome! chris burbridge august 22, 2019 we have needed something like this for a long time. is working great with beaver builder! my savior hassan shafiian august 14, 2019 i needed custom fonts in elementor free and this is the exact solution for my problem. awesome! woo-do june 8, 2019 what a time saver! works pretty well on my sites! thanks a lot! read all 17 reviews contributors & developers “custom fonts” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors brainstorm force “custom fonts” has been translated into 4 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “custom fonts” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.2.1 improvement: hardened the security of plugin improvement: compatibility with latest wordpress php_codesniffer rules 1.2.0 improvement: displaying menu after astra options menu. 1.1.0 new: option to select font-display property. 1.0.8 new: now you can also upload otf fonts. fix: ttf fonts not being uploaded in wordpress media library. 1.0.7 fix: custom fonts loading the block editor breaking styling of the editor. 1.0.6 improvement: enqueue the custom fonts in the blocck editor to correctly prefiew the custom fonts. 1.0.5 fix: javascript error in the firefox browser not allowing to upload any fonts. 1.0.4 new: added compatibility with beaver builder theme, beaver builder plugin and elementor. 1.0.3 fix: when two custom fonts are loaded on a site, only one of the fonts will be actually enqueued. 1.0.2 white label support added from the astra pro plugin. 1.0.1 improved the design of the admin ui. changed the plugin name to be custom fonts instead of bsf custom fonts. 1.0.0 initial release. meta version: 1.2.1 last updated: 2 months ago active installations: 100,000+ wordpress version: 4.4 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 languages: see all 5 close chinese (taiwan), english (us), persian, portuguese (brazil), and russian. translate into your language tags: astrabeaver builderelementorwoff advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 15 4 stars 1 3 stars 0 2 stars 0 1 star 1 contributors brainstorm force support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 5 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.