content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search customer service consulting your dissatisfied customers are your most important customers for every 100 unhappy customers, only five will complain. you may feel like there is more customer negativity, expressed in more places, than ever. and you may be right. after all, it wasn’t that long ago that customers couldn’t express dissatisfaction on twitter, yelp, online forums, glassdoor, instagram, or facebook. but given that the vast majority of unhappy customers say nothing to you about it, those that do complain are doing you an enormous favor. it’s how you handle it, and where, and when that make all the difference. how should you handle customers on twitter? what about live chat? facebook messenger? what about employee reviews on glassdoor and indeed? in a world where feedback has exploded, how do you keep all the balls in the air? we can help. we’ll work with you to determine what your customers really want (and need), where you’re exceeding those expectations, and where you may be falling short. we’ll evaluate your customer service and online responsiveness versus your key competitors (if you like) and determine what you need to improve, enhance, add, or delete to delight customers. we’ll also work to make sure you’re measuring customer service optimally, whether you’re doing so from a b2c or b2b perspective. we use our decades of experience, proprietary audience insights, competitive analysis, advanced metrics system, and detailed research to craft customer service optimization programs that drive meaningful business results. our clients and case studies speak for themselves. how we work while we’ll tailor to your organization’s circumstances, many of our assignments look like this: deep research. we look at your business/organization, category, competition, current customer service processes and initiatives, customer insights, analytics, and more. qualitative analysis. 1:1 conversations with key stakeholders on your team, as well as interviews with prototypical customers and prospects quantitative analysis. deep social listening, detailed surveys of current customers, prospects, and lapsed customers to study key perspectives, attitudes, cs patterns and outliers, csat review, and more strategy summary. assessment and overview of customer service current and future states, including themes, messaging, calls to action, obstacles and hurdles, audiences/personas, ratings/reviews, software stack, metrics and measurement, and cs optimization sequencing. this deliverable also includes an unveiling of the key strategic transformations necessary to exceed customer expectations at critical touchpoints. this is the “what” of our work. operations playbooks. highly detailed documents (typically 2-3) that specify precisely what needs to be done to consistently and accurately put into practice the new/improved cs processes described in the strategy summary. this is the “how” of our work. ongoing counsel. lightweight weekly support to answer questions, refine playbooks, connect dots, and pitch in where needed. this is like personal training for customer service optimization. in addition to our customer service consulting programs, we also deliver customer experience consulting for our clients, and provide customer experience and customer service training via workshops, keynote presentations, and boot camps. 13 words you never use when replying to a customer are you throwing gas on your own fire? too often, we use the wrong words when interacting with customers. our short ebook spotlights the phrases your customers hate, and how to change them. how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept