home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance search emerging education technologies home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance home custom instructional and education technology training custom instructional and education technology training would you like to have a customized training session, workshop, or ‘tech talk' for your faculty? emergingedtech founder and author kelly walsh regularly delivers customized instructional technology training and workshops to educators across the u.s. i frequently conduct training sessions, workshops, and breakout sessions in a wide variety of formats and time frames – online, in person, short sessions (an hour or two), or full day or half-day sessions. i've delivered sessions on using social media effectively in the classroom, fun free tech tools for teaching, getting started with video and digital content creation tools for teaching, and of course lots of flipped classroom workshops (intro's, deeper dives, free tools, etc.), and numerous other topics. what instructional uses of technology do you want your faculty to learn about? let's talk! workshops are supported with a permanent customized web page for your institution, providing easy access to the training content and lots of great resources. just fill out the form below to provide me a little information, and i'll get back to you right away! i look forward to working with you! * indicates required field name:* email:* your school:* please contact me about custom training:* captcha code:* powered by fast secure contact form leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here * search the site! * get a copy of the free education technology resources ebook as our thank you for subscribing to our blog posts! subscribe name: email: we respect your email privacy categories categories select category 3 minute teaching with tech tip (video tutorials) 3d printing in education adaptive learning administrative solutions artificial intelligence assessment augmented reality, virtual reality best education and technology videos blogs & blogging book reviews collaboration & brainstorming comics and cartooning competency based education cyber safety awareness and prevention digital badges digital literacy education technology success stories educational games & gamification electronic portfolios facebook (classroom and instructional uses) financial literacy awareness flipping the classroom (reverse instruction) fln hub syndicated posts free tools & resources future of education technology interactive white boards interviews – education technology thought leaders ipads and other tablet devices iphones and smartphones learning analytics learning management & course management systems lecture capture making the case for education technologies mobile learning resources moocs (massive open online courses) morning motivation open educational resources oer picture and image editing podcasting, vodcasting, & video hosting polls, surveys portals powerpoint presentation tools professional development project based learning screencasting social media & social learning special needs students story telling & timelines student centered learning student response systems teaching coding twitter uncategorized workshops & conferences _ miscellaneous tools and topics emergingedtech on social media 9,687fanslike 320followersfollow 9,733followersfollow 2,290subscriberssubscribe popular posts 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle the multiple uses of augmented reality in education 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring come explore the flipped learning network! recognition for emergingedtech! even more news how to get your students to perform better – the scientific... march 27, 2020 5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy march 24, 2020 the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation... march 20, 2020 popular category _ miscellaneous tools and topics502 free tools & resources502 future of education technology315 making the case for education technologies283 ipads and other tablet devices259 professional development239 iphones and smartphones200 ©