english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get started home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in bring order to customer service chaos customer service software that builds organization and efficiency into your customer service team. freak out less. close more tickets. start providing better customer service right now with service hub. get started or call us at 888-893-7922 to get your questions answered right now. first name last name company email get free widget the hard truth about your customers a massive shift has taken place in the relationship between businesses and customers. today, customers have more control, more options, and higher expectations than ever. they don’t tolerate scripts, queues, or robotic q&a. they demand conversational, contextual, human interactions. we all love and value our customers, but the way we’ve been interacting with them isn't good enough. get the facts 60% of consumers have stopped doing business with a brand due to a poor customer service experience. microsoft state of global customer service report, 2016 did you know? b2b customers with high customer engagement scores achieve 50% higher revenue/sales. gallup's guide to customer centricity report, 2016 customer service isn't a sunk cost today's most successful businesses have found out that happy customers are the secret to growth. they buy more, stay longer, refer their friends, and tell the world about you. it’s time we stop viewing customer service as a sunk cost, and start seizing it as an opportunity. to make this a reality, you need to take a proactive approach to helping your customers — and you need software that makes it easy. create an extraordinary customer experience service hub has all the tools you need to delight customers at scale. you’ll give them an extraordinary and efficient experience with your company, help them help themselves, and build a base of happy customers who advocate for your business. here’s how: create a frictionless customer experience help customers help themselves turn happy customers into growth create a frictionless customer experience deliver organized customer service that gives efficient help and complete answers. customers don’t care about the internal structure of your company. they just want help. when your teams are cut off from each other, you create friction and confusion for your customers. with the tools in service hub, you can finally build a frictionless customer experience. this starts with the conversations inbox, which brings all your communication channels — email inboxes, live chat, forms, facebook messenger, and more — together into one universal inbox. each conversation is enriched by the hubspot crm, so you have contextual information about the customer's history with your company. service hub also offers a complete help desk with built-in automation and reporting, so you can turn chats and emails into tickets that are easily organized, prioritized, and tracked. in the first quarter of 2019, service hub users have already resolved almost 1.4 million tickets to help create a more organized, efficient, and helpful customer service experience. features that make this possible help desk shared inbox hubspot crm help customers help themselves help customers faster and remove friction with automated and self-service solutions. for many of today’s customers, the best service experience is to get out of their way and help them help themselves. service hub’s self-service solutions are designed to make it easy for customers to solve their own problems. in 2019 service hub customers have already published over 21,000 articles in the knowledge base tool, which lets you build a robust library of support articles that help customers quickly find the information they need. it’s also smart — not just a static list of faqs — so it learns what people are looking for, and suggests what you can do to improve. service hub’s live chat makes it easy to engage more customers in conversations. and using the service bot, you can scale these conversations to help customers get answers without involving a human specialist. features that make this possible knowledge base live chat & bots turn happy customers into growth get customer feedback and identify advocates that help grow your business. buyers don’t lack information. they lack credible sources of truth. for people to trust your business, you need customer advocates who are willing to proactively vouch for you. service hub’s feedback and advocacy tools help you understand your customers so you can improve their experience and identify happy customers willing to share their opinion of your business. service hub users have received over 57,000 completed surveys from their customers, helping them improve their business and identify advocates. when you identify customers who are happy and eager to promote your business, turn their stories into social proof by asking them for the right type of marketable content. you can build workflows that make it easy to request their participation in advocacy campaigns or case studies. features that make this possible customer feedback hubspot’s sales, marketing, customer service, and crm tools are powerful alone — but they’re even better together. focus on generating leads, increasing revenue, and exceeding your customers’ expectations, all with one stack of tools. say goodbye to scattered solutions, and unite all your teams around a single suite of software that integrates everyone's tools, data, and processes. you’ll eliminate wasted time and effort so you can easily increase traffic, convert more leads, win more customers, and turn them into promoters that grow your business. the hubspot growth platform includes free hubspot crm everything you need to organize, track, and nurture your relationships with leads and customers. yes, it's 100% free. forever. marketing hub grow traffic and convert more visitors with tools like landing pages, automation, analytics, and so much more. sales hub time-saving tools that help you get deeper insights into your prospects, automate the tasks you hate, and close more deals faster. service hubnew customer service tools to help you connect with customers, exceed their expectations, and turn them into promoters that grow your business. get started with free tools, or get more with our premium software. learn more hubspot’s sales, marketing, customer service, and crm tools are powerful alone — but they’re even better together. the hubspot growth platform includes free hubspot crm everything you need to organize, track, and nurture your relationships with leads and customers. yes, it's 100% free. forever. marketing hub grow traffic and convert more visitors with tools like landing pages, automation, analytics, and so much more. sales hub time-saving tools that help you get deeper insights into your prospects, automate the tasks you hate, and close more deals faster. service hub customer service tools to help you connect with customers, exceed their expectations, and turn them into promoters that grow your business. get started with free tools, or get more with our premium software. learn more start building a modern customer service system. connect with customers on their own terms, improve customer satisfaction, and grow your business faster. get started customer service software that turns customers into promoters conversations manage 1-to-1 customer communications at scale through a universal, collaborative, inbox that aggregates customer emails, chats, and more — and is accessible to your entire team. tickets log customer issues as tickets that can be assigned to members of your team, organized and prioritized, and tracked in a central location. feedback get a pulse on customer happiness, and deploy surveys to gather feedback that can be used to build a better customer experience. automation & routing automate your customer service processes with ticket routing, escalation, and task creation. use feedback responses to kick off automated customer marketing emails or internal notifications to your team. knowledge base turn your customers’ most frequently asked support questions and tickets into a robust, optimized knowledge base of help articles and documentation that’s indexed in search engines. team email create team-wide email aliases that automatically turn incoming emails into tickets or get routed to your conversations dashboard. live chat engage in contextual, personalized customer service conversations with your customers in real time on your website. conversational bots use bots to improve live chat efficiencies and scale 1-to-1 communications by routing customers to relevant help documentation, the appropriate chat agent, and more. reporting measure the impact of your customer service efforts with built-in reporting tools that track knowledge base usage data, ticket volume and response time, customer feedback, and more. goals report on metrics related to a specific customer goal, like ticket response time. use goals to easily track and meet customer service level agreements (slas). free to start. affordable as you grow. tools that continue to support you as you continue to support your customers. free customer service tools $0 /month start connecting with and supporting your customers — for free. ticketing team email live chat email templates calling email and chat to ticket ticket creation bots meeting scheduling reporting get started free service hub starting at $400 /month complete customer service software to help you turn customers into promoters premium versions of all free tools, plus ... customer service automation knowledge base customer feedback multiple ticket pipelines video creation custom support from fields goals over 10 additional features talk to sales for more detailed information on product packaging and the limits that apply, please see our product and services catalog here. price shown in usd and subject to applicable tax. service hub is exactly what we’ve been looking for. when you add value for customers, you simultaneously grow your own business. your customer succeeds, and so do you. steven loepfe founder and managing partner grow your business through happier, more successful customers. get started with hubspot’s customer service software today to connect with customers on their own terms, and grow through their success. get started or call us at 855-824-1232 to get your questions answered right now. increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2020 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy