home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources category: customer success read more business development / customer success / featured #122: vaibhav sahgal – head of growth at reddit – how to be a growth product leader by julio rodriguez on march 5, 2020 vaibhav sahgal is the head of growth at reddit, inc. which has 500 million unique users around the world. prior to this, he worked at zynga for 8 years as a product manager. he led… read more customer success / featured #89: evan fried – first employee at checkr & head of customer success by timur meyster on june 6, 2018 a lot of times in startups, roles are not defined. and although we wear many hats, sometimes it never gets solidified. today, evan talks about his humble beginnings. born in alaska, he sold his cream… read more customer success / featured nico roberts – head of customer success by timur meyster on december 12, 2016 nico roberts is the head of customer success at onboardiq. customer success is a highly important in any startup. it not only ensures client satisfaction and handling customer complaints, but it also bridges the gap between different… subscribe be the first to get the latest breaking into startups podcast updates, right to your inbox. we’ll never spam you. our guests came from: about us the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds.our mission is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. facebook twitter instagram © 2020 breaking into startups. privacy policy top join 1,055 other subscribers! email subscribe now we respect your privacy. join our newsletter today! stay updated with all the latest episodes, upcoming events & much more. hack reactor prep prepare for any coding bootcam (free) learn more no thanks!