see help scout in action get a demo features shared inbox manage conversations at scale knowledge base instant answers for customers in-app messaging engage people on your website customer management know your vips reporting real-time data at your fingertips live chat make your website more helpful integrations connect the tools you already use company plan designed to grow with teams of 25+ resources blog culture, learnings, and product updates success stories see how other teams use help scout get a demo help scout tips, best practices, and q&a help center how-to articles about using help scout contact us get in touch with our team education helpu learn how to create exceptional customer experiences playlists customer service insights, organized by theme guides deep dives spanning the customer lifecycle webinars live and recorded sessions with industry experts pricing get a demo free trial see help scout in action get a demo shared inbox knowledge base messaging customer management reporting live chat integrations company plan pricing success stories get a demo blog helpu guides webinars free trial already a customer? login guides helpu playlist icon playlists guides webinars customer acquisition strategies for entrepreneurs in addressing an entrepreneur’s most important early-stage question – customer acquisition – it’s easy to waste a lot of money in the wrong channels, especially ones where you go toe-to-toe with the big guys and can easily be outspent. you have to execute in a different way. your business will only win by marketing smart – acquiring customers in a way that differentiates you from the crowd and builds an enthusiastic customer base you don’t have to keep paying for every month. gregory ciotti the new world of customer acquisition since you have more time and talent than disposable resources, acquiring new customers means understanding what makes your customers tick and investing heavily in inbound marketing strategies such as content, building an email newsletter and search engine optimization (seo). inbound marketing pulls customers in with value-generating resources (such as the one you’re reading right now). sure, it takes time to create great content, but a robust resource center can drive qualified visitors for the life of your business. on the other hand, outbound marketing requires you to keep writing checks in order to bring in new visitors. when the checks stop going out, the new visitors stop coming in. content marketing the absolute best tactic for acquiring new customers as a cash-poor startup is utilizing the power of content marketing. although the buzz around this term is at an all-time high, the results for those businesses that do it well speak for themselves. content marketing information & insight the 25 principles that power the help scout blog rand fishkin’s best advice for increasing blog traffic how to create a content marketing strategy why startups need to rise above the deluge of crappy content priceonomic’s content handbook hiten shah’s content marketing playbook building a b2c2b content strategy 75 inspiring content marketing examples content is customer success content marketing blogs copyblogger velocity partners content marketing institute hubspot the content strategist content marketing tools buzzsumo nuzzel canva sumome contently hellobar slideshare search engine optimization the great part about creating practical, useful content is that all of those shares and links will help you start to naturally rank in search engines. and as you know, organic search results are a great place for potential customers to find you. seo information & insight google’s seo starter guide beginner’s guide to seo the complete list of link building tactics the periodic table of seo ranking factors seo copywriting guide perfecting on-page optimization google's ranking factors simplifying seo guide seo blogs moz aj kohn ross hudgens bill slawski jon cooper brian dean seo tools google keyword tool moz tools open site explorer semrush screaming frog buzzstream authority labs ahrefs email marketing do you know what smart entrepreneurs do with the traffic they receive from inbound marketing content and seo? they build an email list. outside of direct sales, there is no better business outcome attached to first-time visitors than when they subscribe to receive newsletters and email updates from you. email marketing information & insight the email marketing essentials list building for blogs: the only guide you’ll ever need 50 awesome posts on email marketing the ultimate list of email marketing statistics using your email list to figure out what people want to buy email marketing blogs litmus mailchimp aweber vero customer.io email marketing tools emma mailchimp campaignmonitor constantcontact drip litmus vero customer.io copywriting when a design and product-focused blog like basecamp tells you to go hug your copywriter, you just know that words still rule the web. choosing the right words is an important part of how your business sells online, so invest a little time in learning about powerful wordsmithing. copywriting information & insight how to write magnetic headlines the copywriter's handbook complete list of copywriting formulas your world before our product 7 scientifically-backed copywriting tips 10 super smart people talk copywriting for conversions burning down your old landing page copywriting blogs copyhackers business casual copywriting men with pens american writers & artists inc. drayton bird breaking copy copyblogger copywriting tools the golden ratio typography calculator copyscape zenwriter (pc) iawriter (mac) conversion rate optimization when your website starts getting traffic, it’s time to start doing something with it. the fact is, improving certain elements of your site can help you increase leads and sales with the traffic that you already have. cro information & insight the conversion rate optimization rulebook 50+ awesome posts on conversion rate optimization 29 case studies on cro 7 usability mistakes that will kill your sales which color is best for conversions? 7 pricing mistakes that can seriously stifle sales 16 fresh pieces of conversion advice cro blogs unbounce blog conversion rate experts conversionxl which test won? visual website optimizer blog kissmetrics blog cro tools clicktale crazyegg unbounce hubspot visual website optimizer optimizely social media marketing there is a lot of ongoing hype surrounding social media marketing. the truth is that social media isn’t all that useful on its own … but it is the gasoline that fires and spreads your online content. social media marketing information & insight a comprehensive list of social media demographics don’t be a social media cheater 40 tips on being a genuine social media rockstar the marketer’s guide to linkedin the marketer’s guide to facebook the marketer’s guide to twitter social media marketing blogs social media examiner socialfresh bufferapp blog sprout social blog social media explorer social media marketing tools hootsuite bufferapp followerwonk pagelever sproutsocial analytics building an online business without utilizing analytics is like driving with your eyes closed. if you don’t know what’s working (or what’s not), where people are visiting, and how your pages are performing, then you’re headed toward failure. analytics information & insight 50 resources for making the most of google analytics why you should throw away these vanity metrics the ultimate guide to google webmaster tools advanced google analytics tips & tricks how to find your most valuable pages (and what to do with them) 9 metrics & analytics info your startup should be tracking analytics blogs google analytics blog annie cushing avinash kaushik kissmetrics analytics talk analytics tools google analytics hotjar clicky mint analytics mixpanel kissmetrics ready, set, fill your toolbox it’s time to take what you’ve learned and start building. every entrepreneur needs a customer acquisition toolbox that helps him or her work smarter than the big guys. considering your business’ capabilities and limitations, create an inbound marketing strategy that prioritizes the pieces you want to deliver first to begin driving customer acquisition. and don’t reinvent the wheel when you’re crafting these pieces — the blogs and articles above are excellent starting points to guide your efforts. email icon we make a web-based help desk for teams that insist on a delightful customer experience. more about help scout. learn to build a company people love join 251,101 people on our weekly newsletter. start your free 15-day trial you’ll be set up in minutes. sign up now related resources 10 unforgettable customer service stories inspirational stories of great people going above and beyond the art of customer loyalty 2+ years of our most popular blog content in a comprehensive resource acquiring customers with email how to turn your email newsletter into a conversion machine join 251,101 subscribers and receive the latest tools, insights, and tips on how to create better customer experiences. no thanks