content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip custom research custom research insights derived from cmi-custom designed surveys, developed in conjunction with brands. scaling and measuring content marketing to generate demand, measure audiences are you investing in content that goes beyond generating attention—to holding it? based on the results of cmi’s 2019 content marketing for demand generation survey, in its second year sponsored by scribblelive, this market brief shows many marketers are using content marketing primarily at the top-of-the-funnel—at a time when it’s crucial to keep the audiences they attract. view here optimize content marketing performance through active audience listening confidence in our messaging is not the same as confidence in our audience. recent cmi research conducted with vennli shows that 64% of marketers are extremely/very confident about selecting the right topics for their content marketing pieces. however, 61% of those same marketers are challenged with knowing what is most important to their audience. how can this be? robert rose, cmi’s chief strategy advisor, explores this disconnect and offers four ways to practice active audience listening. view here using content marketing to generate demand, create new audiences learn about demand generation specifically from the content marketer’s perspective. which technologies do they use? how much content are they creating for each stage of the buyer’s journey beyond creating awareness and interest? how are they measuring success? this market brief, based on original cmi research and authored by robert rose, includes guidance for getting optimal results from content marketing to locate new audiences. view here content marketing and sales alignment: bridging the gap cmi’s research with linkedin shows that content may be the solution that finally bridges the gap between b2b marketing and sales. according to the research, highly aligned content marketing and sales teams collaborate and communicate much more frequently than companies with low alignment. they’re also able to build a better business case for content marketing (demonstrate results), and therefore, obtain more budget/resources. view the complete report here, which includes best practices for achieving content marketing and sales alignment in your own company. view here the symphony of connected interactive content marketing in 1q2017, cmi repeated its 2016 survey on interactive content marketing. this paper reports on the findings, showing how, when, and where marketers are using interactive content. our conclusion? the use of interactive content will only continue to rise. read the paper for tips on getting started or expanding and connecting interactive content usage. view here deliver peak experiences with interactive content fifty-three percent of marketers cmi surveyed in 1q2016 use interactive content, and 75% of those users say they will use more in 2016 vs. 2015. check out this white paper for additional key findings and best practices for using interactive content. view here is native advertising the new black? results of a 2015 cmi survey that asked content marketers how they are using native advertising for content marketing purposes. the report provides guidance for incorporating native into a content marketing strategy. view here start smart, scale up, and stand out with video this 2015 cmi study revealed how content marketers manage the business aspects involved with creating videos for content marketing purposes. the findings reveal motivations for using video, outsourcing vs. in-house production habits, budget allocation, and more. view here promoting your content marketing: time to orchestrate the concert of paid media a 2014 cmi survey explored how content marketers use paid methods to distribute content. the report’s focus is on how the most successful respondents set goals for paid distribution and use it to build audiences. view here custom white papers cmi-authored white papers based on secondary research, conducted on behalf of brands. webinars: they’re not just for leads anymore this study explores the reasons why webinars are not being used more often — even though marketers consider them to be among the most effective content marketing tactics — and the ways they can be used more successfully. view here digital assets should be agile, not fast how agile teams, assets and processes create collaborative content, better brands and faster content marketing. view here great visual storytelling takes a village how four cs – collaborate, customize, communicate and connect – help the community of the business manage digital assets. view here digital asset mgt: three tickets to the blockbuster content marketing show the three best practices we see brands following in order to prepare for and succeed in the new world of digital assets management. view here using dam to turn your content marketing up to eleven delve more deeply into the process of digital asset management — and the best practices that can help a brand get more out of moving to a more collaborative environment. view here interested in partnering with cmi on an original research project? contact karen schopp, sr. strategic account manager, at karen.schopp@ubm.com. blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree