products media database political database media monitoring political monitoring news distribution media analysis online media centre stakeholder management foi press & bloggers blog all blog posts top ten blogs pr influencers online influence awards awards home nominations 2019 finalists 2019 finalists sponsors gallery 2018 gallery 2017 gallery 2016 gallery 2015 gallery winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 winners tickets more our clients resources about vuelio contact us vuelio newsletters close twitter facebook linkedin instagram youtube request a quote request a quote we are a modular product meaning you only pay for what you need. request a call back by filling in the form. get pricing products overview media database political database media monitoring political monitoring news distribution media analysis journalist enquiry service online newsroom canvas foi management stakeholder management our clients media database engage with influencers 1 million records of journalists, bloggers and outlets tell me more industries financial services public sector healthcare charity education media & influencers online influence awards blog all blog posts top 10 blogs pr influencers media blogger point of order how to network. virtually. the public affairs working from home challenge: think about reading labour calls on the pr industry to help curb panic buying during the covid-19 crisis navigating uncertainty: the vuelio toolkit for communicators more our clients contact us resources events about vuelio vuelio newsletters menu twitter facebook linkedin instagram youtube 0203 426 4125 top ten blogs you are here: home / social media index / daddy blogs uk top 10 previous back to all next daddy blogs uk top 10 june 5, 2019 by holly hodges pr pulse / top ten blogs / social media index / top lists / influencers the top 10 daddy blog ranking was last updated 05/06/2019. 1. dad blog uk moving into the number one spot is vuelio-blog-awards-winning dad blog uk. the blog was created by john adams, who left his full-time job in government communications behind to become the main carer for his children and decided to share his story through dad blog uk. john refers to himself as ‘school run dad’, posting about the logistics of being a stay-at-home dad, juggling his freelance career and blog with childcare. dad blog uk also tackles the bigger issues facing parents such as understanding the environmental impact of a family on the plant to whether you should allow your child to wear make-up. as a full-time content creator, john has worked with a number of well-known brands from peugeot to xbox, and even took part in our latest pr and journalist ‘blind date’! 2. slouching towards thatcham slouching towards thatcham is the creation of tim liew, father of three and creator of hilarious musical parodies. tim started his blog as a way to document his children growing up in the hope that one day they would enjoy reading these stories. slouching towards thatcham now offers parenting tips and regular updates on family life, from what they’re watching to celebrating milestones. tim also discusses the tougher topics affecting his children, from how their privacy has been affected by technology to what their future job prospects are. 3. the dadventurer created by stay-at-home dad, dave hornby, the dadventurer follows his adventures as he navigates bringing up two young children with his partner hayley and their sausage dog dax. the current holder of daddy blog of the year, dave posts about a wide range of topics from the challenges of getting a child to sleep at night to the power of facebook-selling-groups for parents. the dadventurer follows dave as he moves from expectant dad to stay-at-home dad and most recently, school-run dad. dave writes in his own unique and humorous way, bringing light to the tough times of raising children, whether it’s sharing his parenting fails or what he’s learnt from doing the school run on a daily basis. 4. diy daddy nigel higgins is the man behind diy daddy, sharing his experience of being a father of five and posting about his passion and career in diy. with children ranging from three to nineteen, nigel faces all the challenges parenthood throws at him, from finding the right balance between tech and tech-free time to how to handle teen driving fears. with over 20 years’ experience in diy and decorating, nigel also has plenty of tips on how to create the perfect home for a family, and he’s even got suggestions on how to build the ideal man cave! 5. diary of the dad jumping up four places is diary of the dad. the blog was founded by tom briggs back in 2010, and he’s transformed a small hobby into a full-time job, documenting his journey as a parent to three children. diary of a dad shares the weird and wonderful things he encounters along the way, from finding the hidden meanings in his kid’s abandoned play scenes to the importance of allowing boys to show emotion. tom writes honest and insightful posts about life as a father and the challenges he faces, sharing his thoughts on school, the environmental impact of his family and how he sees himself and his behaviour reflected in his children. 6. the yorkshire dad as the name suggests, the yorkshire dad is a blog by yorkshire-based father of two, karl young. after discovering the world of parenting blogs in 2013, karl decided to start his own, sharing his experiences and offering help and support to other new parents. the yorkshire dad is packed with advice, from the top foods for children with intolerances to tips for planning a family holiday. for any other yorkshire based parents, karl has local updates including upcoming developments around leeds and suggestions for places to visit around his area such as lotherton hall. 7. you the daddy you the daddy is the creation of giles alexander, a london-based blogger offering his thoughts and views on parenting from the dad’s perspective. from pregnancy through to parenthood, giles shares his advice from everything from home birth to creating a child-friendly home. with a recent move and a number of home renovations on the go, you the daddy covers how to handle home improvements with a young family, including a new-born baby. 8. music.football.fatherhood music.football.fatherhood was created by elliott rae to create an online community for all types of dads, from single parents to stay-at-home dads. cited as ‘the dad’s version of mumsnet’ by the bbc, music.football.fatherhood is a place for dads to chat about everything, from raising healthy well-rounded children to money management, and obviously music and football! supported by a team of fellow fathers, music.football.fatherhood has a team from all walks of life, posting about a variety of topics, from fitness tips for dads to advice for new dads from new dads. 9. daddacool alex walsh is the man behind daddacool, a blog he started to share stories as his family changed and grew from a family of three to five, plus a cat. daddacool posts a wide range of tips, thoughts and advice, including reviews of family friendly festivals to handy and humorous instructions for parents of boys. alex has worked with a number of popular brands such as lego, playmobil and nintendo, and he’s also the only parent blogger to be involved in the shell network of champions. 10. working daddy a brand-new entry to our ranking is working daddy. created by tom, father of three and seo specialist, he started his blog to share the challenges of being a working father and how to get the right work/life balance. working daddy has lots of tips for all types of families, from ideas for educational activities for kids to lifestyle advice such as protecting your identity online. tom also offers handy ideas to help around the home, including cutting the cost of utility bills and how to redesign a family home. the fundamentals of working with bloggers are the same as with traditional journalists at traditional media outlets: respect their schedules; take time to read their material to learn their interests; and only contact them if/when they want to be contacted. vuelio’s blog ranking methodology takes into consideration social sharing, topic-related content and post frequency. profiles of these daddy blogs and their authors can be found in the vuelio media database. https://www.vuelio.com/uk/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/daddy-feature.jpg 400 700 holly hodges https://www.vuelio.com/uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/vuelio-logo.png holly hodges2019-06-05 10:00:002019-06-05 10:44:37daddy blogs uk top 10 author: holly hodges holly is a senior media researcher at vuelio, with a focus on newspapers, blogs and websites. follow @hollyhodges2 struggle to keep up with the latest pr, public affairs and comms news? get a weekly news round-up delivered straight to your inbox leave a comment leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. your name email website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. your comment post comment mark yates says: june 14, 2017 at 12:19 pm what a great list if dad blogs. i’m a regular reader of the majority of these blogs already. but i will check out the other dad blogs that i haven’t read. reply the dadventurer (dave) says: june 3, 2016 at 6:38 pm fantastic to be on the list with some awesome dad bloggers – thanks very much :) reply andy morley says: june 1, 2016 at 1:17 pm great to see john adams in here, i have worked with john in the past when he was at an epilepsy charity. top bloke! reply chris says: june 1, 2016 at 12:56 pm great to see more and more dads blogging here in the uk. some great reads and great advice can be found from these and a whole host of others. reply alex says: september 18, 2015 at 2:48 pm i can confirm that’s me in my swimming trunks in the photo. if i hadn’t spent so long working out, i might have got higher than number 6 ;-) reply mirka moore @kahanka @fitness4mamas says: june 27, 2015 at 2:28 pm fabulous list! need to check as some new ones for me! thanks for sharing! reply trackbacks & pingbacks top of the vuelio uk daddy blogger list - dad blog uk says: june 14, 2017 at 1:37 pm […] can see the entire list by following this link. please do check out the blogs that are on there, they are all […] reply guest edit: award-winning dad blogger diary of the dad | raise says: may 3, 2015 at 12:20 pm […] a string of dad blogging awards, including as one of tots100’s top ten dad bloggers in 2014 and cision’s top 10 uk daddy bloggers that same […] reply q&a with award-winning dad blogger yorkshire dad | raise says: april 30, 2015 at 9:50 pm […] of fatherhood, it’s little wonder that karl young aka yorkshire dad was selected as one of cision’s top 10 uk daddy bloggers. we spoke to him about first words, the perks of paternity leave and the role of daddy blogging […] reply |father blog | pack light says: january 31, 2015 at 10:06 pm […] daddy blogs uk top 10 – 2014 (cision) […] reply vuelio media database struggling to reach the right influencers? access over 11,000 uk bloggers and one million journalists, editors & outlets more top 10 blogs mummy blogs uk top 10 published on march 18, 2020 top 10 irish blogs published on march 11, 2020 top 10 uk theatre blogs published on march 4, 2020 our latest posts have you updated your facebook strategy? published on january 22, 2018 7 pr new year’s resolutions published on january 2, 2018 what’s real engagement on instagram? published on january 2, 2018 demo our software try it for yourself see what vuelio can do for you with a free demo. request a call back using the short form below request a demo subscribe to vuelio newsletters! vuelio copyright © 2019 vuelio terms & policies products media database political database media monitoring political monitoring news distribution media analysis online newsroom stakeholder management industries financial services public sector healthcare charity education press & bloggers media updates top lists influencers pr marketing communications our clients resources about vuelio contact us careers support training vuelio responsesource accessintelligence get pricing 0203 426 4125 request a quote request a quote contact our representatives for a customised quote or alternatively take a few moments to fill out the short from below. scroll to top