style design food travel relationships motherhood shop menu style design food travel relationships motherhood shop dads’ perspectives 8 confessions of a new dad cup of jo has been running for 13 years (!) so we’ve… march 2, 2020 316 five fun (dad) things links from around the web, including how to make a perfect omelet, according to five dads. june 11, 2018 43 the first thing i did after my wife’s death author nina riggs died from breast cancer at age 39. her husband john duberstein shares the unexpected solace he found after her death. june 19, 2017 154 ivf: one couple’s funny, heartfelt story doree shafrir and matt mira talk candidly about the ups and downs. march 13, 2017 170 what music do you play for your kids? alex shares how he got toby and anton into music. june 13, 2016 170 in which toby goes on a date things got fancy. march 16, 2015 167 how many children do you hope to have? alex and i have been talking about this more lately, and… …we’re… november 10, 2014 405 raising your first child vs. second child (so different) alex and i were laughing the other day about how differently we’ve… september 29, 2014 71 what’s your child’s bedtime routine? seinfeld was recently on the tonight show with jimmy fallon talking about… june 9, 2014 107 the crazy things you do as a parent the new book this is ridiculous this is amazing features one dad’s… june 2, 2014 66 load more about / contact joanna goddard brighten up your inbox let’s hang out contact me motherhood most popular trying out slow parenting best of: parenting around the world how did you know you were ready to have a baby? how to navigate a special needs encounter ‘ten things i always tell pregnant women’ 21 completely subjective rules for raising teenage boys raising race-conscious children one thing that has surprised me about parenting motherhood mondays: ‘i had a stillborn baby.’ 8 confessions of a new dad load more motherhood motherhood around the world motherhood surprising parenting advice motherhood talking to kids disclosure in order to grow our small business, cup of jo earns revenue in a few different ways. we publish several sponsored posts each month, which are always labeled at the top. we also sometimes earn an affiliate commission on the sales of products we link to. we feature only items we genuinely love and want to share, and this is an arrangement between the retailer and cup of jo (readers never pay more for products). these are the ways we support cup of jo, and allow us to run the site and engage with this community we truly love. thank you for reading! you might also like style 8 everyday clothes i wear over and over food 20-minute thai coconut chicken soup design help! which color should i paint my cave? travel how to find that great vacation restaurant, and other burning questions relationships nine women talk about their divorces motherhood what are your kids’ personalities? about a cup of jo welcome! a cup of jo is a daily lifestyle site for women. we cover everything from fashion to culture to parenthood, and we strive to be authentic. as olive kitteridge said, "there's no such thing as a simple life." thank you for reading. read more style food design travel relationships motherhood about contact faq let's hang out