home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum posts by tag dagny 9 posts have a read the briefing new music friday: dagny gives it the full "hey!" treatment when will dagny stop being amazing. have a read the briefing new music friday: dagny at the top, louis tomlinson at the bottom, various songs in between plenty o' belters. have a read the briefing new music friday: carly rae jepsen at the top, no total disasters at the bottom, various collaborations in between also: little mix and stormzy! troye and martin! lauren and halsey! nick, anne-marie and mike posner! have a read the briefing new music friday: katy perry, a crap cover of an another level single, and the songs in between plus new stuff from sigrid, shaima, dagny and anne-marie... have a read features the top 45 singles of 2016 the 45 best pop singles of 2016. spoiler: it's bad news for calum scott. have a read the briefing the week's best new releases: dagny, zara larsson, sylvan esso and more only a week to go until lady gaga. have a read the briefing the week's best new releases: demi lovato, dagny, atom tree and more a few amazing songs, and some alright ones, and a couple of shit ones. have a read songs premiere: dagny feat børns — 'fool's gold' dagny follows 'backbeat' with a song that is even better than 'backbeat'. bloody hell! have a read videos dagny — 'backbeat' visuals to accompany a potentially omnipresent summer 'jam'. welcome to popjustice, a glorified pop blog celebrating 21st century pop, the people who make it, and the people who make the people who make it. more outlook for march 26: you are advised to stay indoors until duageddon passes physical by dua lipa is the biggest song right now for what it's worth apple music's most streamed song is rain (feat. tay keith) - aitch & aj tracey the best popstar is currently dua lipa and that's that 4 years, 1 month, 30 days since the last rihanna album pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits zavvi, 2007–2008 olly alexander interview: "i'm a convincingly happy human being" a variety of papier mache britney spears heads further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled