↓ javascript is disabled. please enable javascript on your browser to best view this site. daily pundit les deplorables daily pundit 1 2 3 … 557 558 >> recent comments henry cybulski on chinavirus update: 3/26/2020 pecancorner on off topic and here to save the day henry cybulski on no subways where i’m at, thank god anniemm on off topic and here to save the day stevef on bojo’s got it bill quick on bojo’s got it pecancorner on i don’t like the sound of this henry cybulski on bojo’s got it bill quick on i don’t like the sound of this pecancorner on i don’t like the sound of this deanz1 on sorry about that deanz1 on sorry about that pecancorner on bojo’s got it anniemm on i don’t like the sound of this pecancorner on i don’t like the sound of this remember – anything you buy from amazon through any link on this site puts a commission in my pocket, at no cost to yourself. or just click this link to start shopping for anything. don't worry - anything you buy through it for 24 hours after you click through will pay daily pundit a commission! or, if you hold your purchase in your cart, i will receive a commission if you buy it within 90 days! thanks! if you are so inclined, donations are always greatly appreciated! buy my books here lightning fall inner circles bank robbery yesterday's pawn dreams of flesh and sand (dream trio) dreams of gods and men (dream trio) dreams of life and death (dream trio) systems are you prepared for emergencies? if you have any interest in being prepared for emergencies - and you should - consider checking out my forum on these issues at emergency-preps.com. there are tens of thousands of posts and topics on most matters you might encounter. i am reviving this forum, so while the topics may appear outdated, they are not. feel free to read the info, and if you have anything to add, or questions, please sign up and participate. thank you! post navigation ← older posts off topic and here to save the day daily pundit posted on march 24, 2020 by stevefmarch 24, 2020 97 there’s no need to fear, underhog is here! share your tales of rescue from peril, or anything else that’s on your mind. (link to previous ot thread.) posted in ot | 97 replies no subways where i’m at, thank god daily pundit posted on march 27, 2020 by bill quickmarch 27, 2020 1 ‘hero’ train conductor dead, 16 hurt in nyc subway fire; blaze probed as suspicious: officials – nbc new york a man has died and more than a dozen people were hurt, several of whom are fighting for their lives, after a blaze in a manhattan subway station an apparent emotionally disturbed person is being questioned in connection with the fire, two senior law enforcement officials say at this point, it’s too early to tell if the fire was a deliberate act or if the man being questioned had a role in it, but the blaze is being treated as suspicious, the senior officials said. stressed out homeless addict who couldn’t find drugs because of supply chain issues during lockdown? hell, i don’t know. that is, by the way, one of the least worrisome possibilities. posted in covid-19, crime | 1 reply bojo’s got it daily pundit posted on march 27, 2020 by bill quickmarch 27, 2020 4 boris johnson: uk prime minister tests positive for coronavirus – cnn london (cnn)uk prime minister boris johnson and health secretary matt hancock have both tested positive for the coronavirus, forcing them to lead the nation’s response to the pandemic from their homes in self-isolation. both announced their infections friday on twitter and tried to allay concerns that westminster’s response to the virus might be compromised. huh. which reminds me. has anybody heard anything from rand paul about his mild symptoms? both his twitter feed and his office prs have been pretty much silent about how he is getting along since the 23rd. posted in covid-19 | 4 replies i don’t like the sound of this daily pundit posted on march 27, 2020 by bill quickmarch 27, 2020 5 clinical pearls covid 19 for er practitioners | texags i am an er md in new orleans. class of 98. every one of my colleagues have now seen several hundred covid 19 patients and this is what i think i know. …plaquenil which has weak ace2 blockade doesn’t appear to be a savior of any kind in our patient population. theoretically, it may have some prophylactic properties but so far it is difficult to see the benefit to our hospitalized patients, but we are using it and the studies will tell. with plaquenil’s potential qt prolongation and liver toxic effects (both particularly problematic in covid 19 patients), i am not longer selectively prescribing this medication as i stated on a previous post. we are also using azithromycin, but are intermittently running out of iv. plaquenil is the brand name for hydroxychloroquine. posted in covid-19 | 5 replies oh, just stop daily pundit posted on march 26, 2020 by bill quickmarch 26, 2020 4 dr. birx: coronavirus data doesn’t match the doomsday media predictions | video | realclearpolitics dr. deborah brix: i’m sure you have seen the recent report out of the u.k. about them adjusting completely their needs. this is really quite important. if you remember, that was the report that says there would be 500,000 deaths in the u.k. and 2.2 million deaths in the united states. they’ve adjusted that number in the u.k. to 20,000. half a million to 20,000. we are looking at that in great detail to understand that adjustment. acually, they have not made that adjustment, and she is lying, by omission, commission, or both. as i posted earlier today, neil ferguson, the guy who wrote the imperial study that predicted 500,000 deaths has not lowered that prediction by a single case – given that that prediction was based on bojo’s initial let it burn policy of locking up the geezers and letting everybody else catch it. let me repeat what ferguson said today: 2/4 -this is not the case. indeed, if anything, our latest estimates suggest that the virus is slightly more transmissible than we previously thought. our lethality estimates remain unchanged. — neilferguson (@neilferguson) march 26, 2020 4/4 – without those controls, our assessment remains that the uk would see the scale of deaths reported in our study (namely, up to approximately 500 thousand).— neilferguson (@neilferguson) march 26, 2020 trump wants to reopen everything asap. his tame docs will give him the help he needs, even if they have to lie to do it. posted in covid-19 | 4 replies sorry about that daily pundit posted on march 26, 2020 by bill quickmarch 26, 2020 10 2/4 -this is not the case. indeed, if anything, our latest estimates suggest that the virus is slightly more transmissible than we previously thought. our lethality estimates remain unchanged. — neilferguson (@neilferguson) march 26, 2020 4/4 – without those controls, our assessment remains that the uk would see the scale of deaths reported in our study (namely, up to approximately 500 thousand).— neilferguson (@neilferguson) march 26, 2020 oh. well, then. never mind. posted in covid-19 | 10 replies time to beat on clueless git roger kimball again daily pundit posted on march 26, 2020 by bill quickmarch 26, 2020 three days ago i wrote the following anent the noted epidemiologist from twitter university, roger kimball: chinavirus update: 3/23/2020 – daily pundit update: oh, goody. after covering himself in shit and shame with moronic predictions last week, noted twitter epidemiologist and clueless git roger kimball is at it again: covid-19, the elephant, and the house cat – american greatness two-hundred-and-seventy-six people! and yes, that frightening number will rise. it will be 400, 500 before you know it. maybe when all is said and done, we’ll see 1,000-1,200 identified who have died from complications that can be traced to this respiratory illness. well, it’s at 490 512, 40 hours after you wrote this, so… since the total is doubling every three days (a bit faster, actually), we should have your 1000 deaders by sometime thursday, and blow out your ludicrous 1200 by the end of the week. annnndddd… five days after he wrote that laughable drivel, here we are. that didn’t take long, did it? i just checked worldometer: current total deaths in the u.s. is 1201, at 5:48pm cdst. kimball is a typical clown who thinks the fact that he has a twitter blue check means he is an expert on everything. he has been pathetically wrong on everything he has said about the chinavirus. he has no more concept of the nature of exponential growth than he does about anything else regarding epidemiology. it’s not “all over.” it’s not even close to being all over. but kimball is so stupidly ignorant that, absent somebody supergluing his fingers together, he’ll probably be back almost immediately with yet another gloriously idiotic demonstration of his cluelessness. and i’ll be here to beat on him yet once again. he’s become sort of a project of mine. posted in covid-19, double down on dumbass, illiterate, innumerate ignoramuses | leave a reply we got market action! daily pundit posted on march 26, 2020 by bill quickmarch 26, 2020 1 stock market today: dow rallies more than 1,300 points, capping its biggest 3-day surge since 1931 stocks surged for a third straight day thursday as investors shrugged off the release of record-breaking initial jobless claims while the senate passed a massive economic stimulus bill amid the coronavirus outbreak. the dow jones industrial average jumped 1,351.62 points, or 6.4%, to close at 22,552.17. the dow capped off its biggest three-day surge since 1931. over the past three days, the dow is up more than 20%. good news. let’s hope it doesn’t duplicate what the market did after that spectacular rebound in 1931: that said, i do think we get a bit more runup on friday, when we find out if it can punch through the resistance at 23000. we have a well-defined trend channel at the hourly scale and it looks like everything should meet and resolve tomorrow. posted in markets | 1 reply another milestone daily pundit posted on march 26, 2020 by bill quickmarch 26, 2020 17 as of a couple of minutes ago (3:43 pm cdst), america’s official case number stood at 81,384, ahead of china at 81,285, and italy at 80,589. we’re number one! yay! by way of comparison, china took a month to go from zero to 77k plus cases. we went from fifteen to 80k in almost exactly the same time. there are other similarities. if you think of nyc as wuhan, and ny state as hubei province, and the rest of the us as the rest of china, we may start to get a glimpse of what really happened in china. posted in covid-19 | 17 replies you think? daily pundit posted on march 26, 2020 by bill quickmarch 26, 2020 1 minnesota doctor engaged in fda-approved hydroxychloroquine trials lacks volunteers – abc news but one of his biggest problems? he needs volunteers, and lots of them. boulware is seeking 1500 volunteers for the first trial, but in the week since he obtained fda approval, he has managed to recruit only 411. recruitment for the second trial, which is also seeking 1500 volunteers, is going even slower. as of this writing, he has only 25. probably has something to do with the tds media shrieking lies about two idiots who “took trump’s cure” and managed to kill one of themselves and hospitalize the other. without mentioning that it wasn’t “trump’s cure,” but fish tank cleaner. posted in covid-19, lies and liars, mainly socialist media, trump derangement syndrome | 1 reply chinavirus gigo daily pundit posted on march 26, 2020 by bill quickmarch 26, 2020 did chloroquine really fail a covid-19 study—or was the trial design to blame? | fiercepharma it’s a rhetorical question. the study was garbage. both sides were taking every drug the chinese researchers could throw at them. posted in covid-19, epidemic | leave a reply county count: see if chinavirus is in your county daily pundit posted on march 26, 2020 by bill quickmarch 26, 2020 coronavirus in the u.s.: latest map and case count – the new york times every case in every county in america. has chinavirus come to visit your county yet? posted in covid-19, epidemic | leave a reply silver linings daily pundit posted on march 26, 2020 by bill quickmarch 26, 2020 3 video: muslim women gather in groups, claim coronavirus can’t infect them – summit news a video clip out of india shows muslim women defying social distancing rules by gathering in groups in the street while claiming they are immune to coronavirus. yes, really. the women were gathered to protest against the india’s citizenship amendment act (caa), which they claim discriminates against muslims, and were not about to let a deadly global pandemic stop them. one woman claimed that coronavirus was predicted in the koran and that “death will come anyway, don’t frighten us by using this virus.” i told you that the fatalistic nature of islam would encourage things like this, and if it only threatened the muslim lunatics, i’d be all for it. unfortunately, it threatens non-muslims as well. be interesting, though, to see what happens in less civilized parts of the world if muslims should come to be regarded as unclean disease carriers because of it. some cultures are much less concerned about things like “islamophobia” than our own. posted in covid-19, disease, epidemic, islam | 3 replies sorry, it’s not a “prank” daily pundit posted on march 26, 2020 by bill quickmarch 26, 2020 8 twisted coronavirus prank: pa. supermarket forced to destroy more than $35,000 in food after woman intentionally coughs all over it – cbs pittsburgh luzerne county (kdka) — a pennsylvania supermarket says they were forced to destroy more than $35,000 in food after a woman’s coronavirus prank involved intentionally coughing all over it. on wednesday, gerrity’s supermarket in luzerne county, says the woman intentionally coughed on the fresh produce, a small section of the bakery and meat case. the supermarket’s co-owner said he believes this was an attempt at a “very twisted prank.” the video says that the district attorney will determine if she should be charged. 8 u.s. code § 1365 – tampering with consumer products | u.s. code | us law | lii / legal information institute a)whoever, with reckless disregard for the risk that another person will be placed in danger of death or bodily injury and under circumstances manifesting extreme indifference to such risk, tampers with any consumer product that affects interstate or foreign commerce, or the labeling of, or container for, any such product, or attempts to do so, shall— (1)in the case of an attempt, be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; (2)if death of an individual results, be fined under this title or imprisoned for any term of years or for life, or both; (3)if serious bodily injury to any individual results, be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than twenty years, or both; and (4)in any other case, be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both. this is not a prank. this is a federal crime, and it needs to be stopped. no matter what the local da decides to do, the feds need to step in and charge her with a felony under this law. and then pack her worthless ass off to a federal pen for ten years. posted in covid-19, crime, epidemic | 8 replies bring on the trump chinavirus cocktail cure! daily pundit posted on march 26, 2020 by bill quickmarch 26, 2020 6 bahrain, belgium report covid-19 treatment touted by trump is working for patients | zero hedge the kingdom of bahrain’s supreme council of health chairman said his country was among the first to use the drug and that its impact has been “profound,” according to the bahrain news agency. dr. shaikh mohamed, who leads the national taskforce for combating covid-19, was also quoted by the news agency as saying hydroxychloroquine was administered according to the same regimens as those used in china and south korea. i don’t trust anything out of china, but south korea’s death toll has been startlingly low. the trump-cure is apparently the reason for this. the first covid-19 case in bahrain was reported on feb. 21, and hydroxychloroquine was first administered to patients showing virus symptoms on feb. 26. every doctor in the world has already written himself a prescription for enough of the trump chinavirus cocktail cure to dose himself and his family. you know they have. let’s get it rolled out here on a universal basis. do what it takes. ramp up production, tell the fda to stfd and stfu, and get to it. stat! as the medicos like to say. posted in covid-19, epidemic, health | 6 replies chinavirus update: 3/26/2020 daily pundit posted on march 26, 2020 by bill quickmarch 26, 2020 44 good morning, all. spring seems to be finally setting in here in the hoosier heartland, with the usual vernal weather pattern: cool, breezy, partly cloudy with chance of showers in the afternoon. at least that’s what’s on tap for today. along with spring pollen. my allergies are driving me nuts. i’m getting a sense of nervousness from the fb groups i read that are centered locally, that is, here in indiana. as the various pauses, closings, distancings, layoffs, quarantines, and lockdowns move toward their second week, the little larders the unprepared stormed grocery stores to create, the cans of soup, spam, and ramen noodles are beginning to run a little low, and for the first time in their lives, many people are afraid to leave their homes to go grocery shopping. i’m not sure what this will mean going forward, but i suspect it will have profound effects on the national psyche. i’m not going to bother with charts, i’ll just give you the numbers for yesterday: total cases: 68,211 new cases: 13,388 total deaths: 1027 new deaths: 247. the rate of growth is slowing a bit here, but everything is still in the exponential stage. we have been, for the past several days, number one in the world for new cases. we are currently number three in total cases, behind china and italy. both we and italy will pass china by the weekend. and we are number six in the world in total deaths. this has been mostly fueled by the stats out of new york state (and city), but now other hotspots are beginning to bloom, in louisiana, los angeles, san francisco, and so on. this will be an ongoing pattern: hotspots that fuel other hotspots, and a gradual spread to every part of the country. updates in the comments, as usual. posted in covid-19, epidemic | 44 replies post navigation ← older posts search for: tweets by realdonaldtrump live traffic stats archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 august 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 old daily pundit archives 2001-2015 categories categories select category #sjw abortion affirmative racism afghanistan africa aggh! my eyes! alt-right amazon ad america and americans annnd…it’s muslims anti-american anti-trust antifanatics are you tired of all the whining yet? are you tired of all the winning yet? assholes bacon bad luck bankruptcy barbarian savages beer bernie sandersnista biden crime family bidengate bigots bitch clinton bj clinton black racists black swans bless your heart blogging blogosphere blue cave boodle books and publishing booze break them up! build the wall bureaucrats and bureaucracy business butthurt bitches california calizuela canuckistan capitalism car thread celebrities child abuse china civil rights civil war clickbait clinton crime family/syndicate clown car cognitive dissonance college basketball commies and communism communist china communist hellholes congress conservatives conspiracy theories constitution cooking cooking with statistics corporate tyranny corruption counter revolution coup covid-19 crazy years creepy kid groper crime crooked hillary cuckleycons cucks cuckservatives cucksuckers cults culture current events cycles dead people debates debt deep state defense delusions and fantasies dem operatives with sheepskins dem operatives with tech companies dem operators in black robes dem operators with bylines dem operators with microphones democrat ethnic plantations democrat smear jobs democrat urban plantations democrats deplorablues depression dhimmi diet disease diversity dogs don’t care doom and gloom dopey joe biden double down on dumbass dumpster fire economy educatastrophe educrats and education election 16 election 2016 election 2020 elections emergency preps energy england epidemic europenises evil experts fail failifornia fake news fake sexes fake women false flags farm country fascism fat america fauxcohontas feminazis finance first amendment first kill all the lawyers food fourth turning fraud fuck you! war! fucking morons fucktards funny future tech gagalicious garbage gaystapo gender feminazis general assholery generations germany get woke, go broke getting what you pay for global warming cultists gop gope government grifters gun banners gun bans and confiscations gun grabbers gun threads guns hacks/propaganda health health insurance reform highway robbery hilarious history holidays hollywood homeless bums, addicts, and lunatics hopeless dumbasses horseshit house of representatives hypocrisy hypocrites and hypocrisy idiocrats illegal aliens illiterate, innumerate ignoramuses immigration immivasion and immivaders impeachment derangement syndrome incompetence indiana intel intelligence iran iraq iron gravy bowls irrelevance islam israel jew hatred jihad squad journalism judiciary junk culture junk education junk history junk journalism junk judiciary junk law junk media junk medicine junk nutrition junk polls junk science just stop it kabuki kamala harris kommie kookservatives ladies with penises lamentations of their women language late great britain law law and order lawfare leftist infantilism leftists leftwing terrorism lgbtqwhatthefuck liberal fascism libertarians liberty lies and liars lolfuckoff lolgf losers low carb maily socialist morons mainly socialist media make america great again markets mcstain mexico mid terms midterms military millennials mini-michael bloombox miscellaneous mitch the bitch mcconnell mittens romneycare modern times monopolies music muslims neca eos omnes neocons never trump never trump=hillary supporters nevertrump=socialist democrats nevetrump=democrat supporters news no mas shrubs normals and abnormals north korea not our war npcs nyc obama obama caliphate obamacare obamagate obituary off topic ok snowflakes oligarchy onlyblackcriminallivesmatter orangemanbad ot pathetic pathetic hysterics patriots and patriotism paul ryno pc bullshit permanent state persuasion perverse incentives perverts police state politics polls portents of war president trump progtard douchebags progtards propaganda psychopaths punch back twice as hard puppet pussies pussyhats putin quid pro joe race race in america racists and racism rationality reality recucklicans red and blue regulatory state religion republicans revolution rino ryan rinos rippetoe ruling class/ruling party rumors russia safety and security san francisco satire saudi wahabbia scamnesty schadenboners science scotus second amendment rkba security state sedition senate send in the clowns shadenfreude sham sandwich impeachment shitholes shrub failure shtf sick hillary singularity site notes sjws slavery snowflakes socialism socialist democrats space sports statists and statism suicidal idiocy supreme court swamp and swamp creatures tards of every kind taxes tech tech tyranny terror texas the academy the counter resistance the narrative the war on america and americans the war on guns the war on liberty the war on men the war on normality the war on the constitution the war on trump the war on white people this and that thought for the day thug life trade – free and otherwise treachery treason true believers trump trump derangement syndrome trumped by trump twice as hard tyranny ubiquitous surveillance uh huh uncategorized unions virtue signaling walls war war of 2020 war on some drugs weaponized communication complexes weather weird welfare state whackjobs and lunatics whatever whitewash whores wreckers writing wtf wut? you’re fired! zoomers meta register log in entries feed comments feed wordpress.org ©2020 - daily pundit - weaver xtreme theme ↑ we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok