» · coronavirus · covid-19 · trump · covid19 · donaldtrump · pandemic · publichealth · 2020 · republicans · senate · democrats · community · gop · election · election2020 · mitchmcconnell · health · 2020election · economy · healthcare · joebiden · resistance · vote · vote2020 · gotv · teaparty · progressives · populists · bluewave · media sign up log in 0 messages new blog entry drafts view/edit my profile image library my groups my stories my activity stream my comments subscribe to hide ads show ads hide ads log out blog it! help join the mailing list news front page elections daily kos liberation league prism comics radio more stories » more stories » more stories » more stories » more stories » more stories » community recommended most shared recent stories community spotlight groups readers and book lovers science matters classwarfare newsletter more... more stories » more stories » more stories » more stories » more stories » more stories » more stories » action sign the petition: trump is lying about coronavirus. networks must stop airing his press conferences. donald trump holds almost daily press briefings from the white house about how the federal government is handling the... sign the petition to congress: implement a national moratorium on foreclosures and evictions as more and more cities and states opt to close restaurants, bars, theatres, and non-essential businesses to flatten the... sign and send to your u.s. senators: no blank check bailouts for corporations. put people first. congress is continuing to float various ideas to respond to the coronavirus pandemic. one option on the table—and one the... see all 20 campaigns » front page queue you are not here: the numbers that the u.s. is reporting for covid-19 aren't what they seem to be mark sumner daily kos staff friday march 27, 2020 · 1:30 pm pdt 2020/03/27 · 13:30 recommend 105 recommend 105 unrecommend 105 58 comments hospital bed booths being set up as javits convention center is turned into a makeshift hospital on march 27, 2020 hospital bed booths being set up as javits convention center is turned into a makeshift hospital on march 27, 2020 exponential growth. it’s one of those terms that everyone has heard now and then, but until the last few weeks the meaning of that term hasn’t always been clear. now it seems all too real as dozens of cases of covid-19 turned rapidly into hundreds, and thousands, and tens of thousands. today they’ll move past 100,000 in the united states alone. that rate of growth in the united states shows that—so far at least—we haven’t done nearly enough to bring the growth of this disease under control. for all the jokes about binge watching, all the over-walked dogs, and a spate of bedroom concerts, the social distancing being practiced in the united states has proven utterly inadequate to bring down the rate of growth. in fact, covid-19 in the united states appears to be growing faster than it did anywhere else in the world. and there’s a reason for that. read more continue reading cellphone location-tracking data shows how florida spring breakers dispersed around the country jen hayden daily kos staff friday march 27, 2020 · 1:00 pm pdt 2020/03/27 · 13:00 recommend 76 recommend 76 unrecommend 76 40 comments cell phone tracking data visualized during spring break in march 2020 cell phone tracking data visualized during spring break in march 2020 warning: what you are about to see is concerning on a number of fronts, primarily the geographic spread of people who were on the beach in ft. lauderdale and the fact that this data is accessible. as states like washington, new york, and california began implementing social distancing orders in early to mid-march in an effort to stop the novel coronavirus from spreading, florida remained open for business. crowds of people were seen at popular beaches in clearwater and ft. lauderdale, where spring breakers went about their holidays despite the deadly danger lurking all around. for these vacationers, it was apparently out of sight, out of mind. when young spring breakers were interviewed, one callously said: "if i get corona, i get corona. at the end of the day, it's not going to stop me from partying." those comments from a young ohio man went viral. only days later he apologized, saying his comments were "insensitive.” he also warned others to “listen to your communities and do as health officials say. life is precious. don’t be arrogant and think you’re invincible like myself.” read more continue reading republicans remain in denial of the scope of the crisis we're in joan mccarter daily kos staff friday march 27, 2020 · 12:30 pm pdt 2020/03/27 · 12:30 recommend 70 recommend 70 unrecommend 70 56 comments a makeshift hospital in new york. a makeshift hospital in new york. house speaker nancy pelosi has been vocal about the fact that the coronavirus response bill congress just passed, along with previous actions, will not be sufficient and will not be the last. republicans, however, are remaining in denial. "we have now just passed what would be the third bill. let's let this work. let's let this work inside america," house minority leader kevin mccarthy said on fox news thursday, before the bill actually had passed. "we have now given the resources to make and solve this problem. we don't need to be crafting another bill right now. let's let these $2 trillion go to work for us, plus the $8 billion ahead of time and the billions of dollars we just passed on the second bill." i suggest that mccarthy try telling that to his state—to all the states—facing an immediate and massive crisis. states and local governments aren't like the federal government: most can't run deficits, and are legally required to balance their budgets. this crisis will require massive spending and will curtail revenues, and is becoming increasingly real to governors. read more continue reading congress' new stimulus bill doesn't do enough to protect voting in november. the next bill must stephen wolf for daily kos elections daily kos staff friday march 27, 2020 · 12:00 pm pdt 2020/03/27 · 12:00 recommend 39 recommend 39 unrecommend 39 19 comments on friday, the u.s. house followed the senate and passed a $2.2 trillion stimulus bill, sending it to donald trump, who signed it that afternoon. however, while this stimulus package is the biggest since world war ii, it failed to ensure that americans will still be able to vote safely in november. instead, congress is planning an indefensible month-long recess rather than pass further measures that would combat our ongoing public health and economic crises—and ensure that our democracy remains operational. the new stimulus contains $400 million in funding for states to expand voting access, just one-tenth of the $4 billion that house speaker nancy pelosi had included in her proposal on monday. voting rights advocates have blasted the sum, which was watered down in negotiations with the republican-held senate, as far from sufficient. moreover, this compromise legislation doesn't include any mandate that states expand voting access. pelosi's package, by contrast, would have required that states offer 15 days of in-person early voting; remove any excuse requirement to vote absentee by mail; mail every registered voter a ballot in case of an emergency like the current one; and allowed voters to register both online and on the same day they cast a ballot. without these policies, countless americans may be unable to vote without putting their health at risk. read more continue reading farmworkers need to be protected, especially during the covid-19 outbreak monica ramirez for our prism prism friday march 27, 2020 · 11:30 am pdt 2020/03/27 · 11:30 recommend 72 recommend 72 unrecommend 72 9 comments farmworkers do life-sustaining work every single day. there are 2 to 3 million farmworkers who labor on farms, packing the sheds and greenhouses that dot the landscape of rural america. an estimated 900,000 of these workers are women. they harvest, pick, process, and pack the fruits and vegetables that we eat every single day. despite their immense contribution to the world and the labor economy, farmworkers are among the lowest paid workers in our country. they have the fewest employment rights, they work under substandard conditions, and they are, essentially, invisible to most people in society. national farmworker awareness week is a week of activation and learning, a time to reflect on the many ways that farmworkers in the united states make our country stronger, not to mention richer. it is one week observed at the end of march to coincide with the great labor leader and farmworker advocate cesar chavez’s birthday. during this week, farmworkers are brought out of the shadows and celebrated by people of all walks of life across the united states. but farmworkers should be celebrated every day, and, like all workers, they should have the same basic protections that are needed to keep them safe, healthy, and able to thrive. read more continue reading trump orders gm to make ventilators, without contract, at someone else's factory, by tweet mark sumner daily kos staff friday march 27, 2020 · 11:00 am pdt 2020/03/27 · 11:00 recommend 170 recommend 170 unrecommend 170 166 comments no, this order doesn't actually say "invoke p," but that makes as much sense as the average trump demand no, this order doesn't actually say "invoke p," but that makes as much sense as the average trump demand after spending the evening telling fox news host sean hannity that those greedy governors—especially pushy female governors—didn’t really need the ventilators they were desperately requesting, donald trump appears to have realized that literally cutting off air to americans is a bad look. so on friday morning, trump did an all-too-typical 180 and took to twitter to do what he does best: blame other people for his mistakes. on thursday evening, the new york times explained how trump completely blew off an all-but-complete deal to have gm manufacture thousands of desperately needed ventilators while refusing to invoke the defense production act. but on friday, trump demanded—demanded—that gm get right on with making ventilators, apparently for free. only trump addressed that demand to a twitter account that wasn’t gm. and he ordered them to use a factory that they sold months ago. friday, mar 27, 2020 · 8:22:18 pm +00:00 · mark sumner trump makes it official. or at least, more official. the white house has issued a statement invoking the defense production act and requiring “general motors to accept, perform, and prioritize federal contracts for ventilators.” in this official statement, trump accuses gm of “wasting time,” and says the situation is too critical for negotiation. when presumably means that gm will take what trump offers and like it. friday, mar 27, 2020 · 8:25:24 pm +00:00 · mark sumner yes, it really does look like trump has invoked the dpa just for one company, and one item, because they didn’t accept his terms on a contract. no sign of the act being used to secure other vital supplies. read more continue reading defeating republican stunt, house passes $2 trillion in coronavirus stimulus joan mccarter for daily kos daily kos staff friday march 27, 2020 · 10:30 am pdt 2020/03/27 · 10:30 recommend 112 recommend 112 unrecommend 112 97 comments members trying to social distance, taking the unusual move of using the gallery as well as the floor. members trying to social distance, taking the unusual move of using the gallery as well as the floor. the house passed the third stage of coronavirus response, despite the antics of kentucky republican rep. thomas massie. it took great deal of legislative maneuvering, with massie insisting that he was going to demand a recorded vote, rather than allowing it to pass—which was inevitable—by voice vote. that meant that at least 216 members, enough to provide a quorum, had to be in the chamber simultaneously to defeat his demand, and allow the bill to pass by voice. which it did, as the house had planned on from the beginning. they had members sitting in the gallery, an unusual if not unprecedented situation, so that they could maintain social distancing. all the same, massie put all those colleagues—who had already had to travel from all over the country—in the same room. the staff did their best to keep everyone safe, but they all had to be in that room together. they all had to come to d.c. it will be a miracle if no member among the dozens who had to be there falls ill as a result of this stunt from massie. if nothing else, this episode demonstrates that leadership has to take the health of congress much more seriously. speaker pelosi and minority leader mccarthy, as well as senate leaders mcconnell and schumer, have to figure out how to allow the congress to function remotely. read comments black-owned businesses urge lawmakers not to forget them in coronavirus bailout lauren floyd daily kos staff friday march 27, 2020 · 10:30 am pdt 2020/03/27 · 10:30 recommend 38 recommend 38 unrecommend 38 9 comments pictured from left to right are singer solange knowles, author gail lumet buckley, activist dolores huerta, and chef marcus samuelsson. pictured from left to right are singer solange knowles, author gail lumet buckley, activist dolores huerta, and chef marcus samuelsson. while the house prepares to vote friday on a $2 trillion coronavirus relief package, black business leaders fear they’ll be overlooked entirely, per usual. politico called the bailout the "biggest economic stimulus in american history,” but sen. bernie sanders has his doubts about the plan, the news website reported. he argued there just aren't enough limits on the business relief. "with half of our people living paycheck to paycheck, these workers and their families worry about what will happen to them when those paychecks stop coming in," sanders said. the popular red rooster restaurant in harlem was forced to temporarily close their doors march 16 amid the pandemic, which has grown to include more than 37,200 cases in new york alone. "we will pay all employees through the week and will work with state and local officials should circumstances dictate,” the company said in a message on its website. “additionally, some of our locally based culinary staff have opted to work through the week under additional covid-19 specific safety measures to prepare our existing food stocks for harlem food kitchens and local social services providers." read more continue reading epa rolls back the most basic restrictions on air and water pollution during coronavirus emergency walter einenkel daily kos staff friday march 27, 2020 · 10:00 am pdt 2020/03/27 · 10:00 recommend 90 recommend 90 unrecommend 90 39 comments the epa’s top compliance official, susan p. bodine, announced a new policy rolling back restrictions and regulations on businesses’ requirements to report air and water pollution late thursday. the new york times reports that the epa cited the covid-19 pandemic as the reason for the relaxation of these important public health and environmental restrictions. according to the times, the new order gets rid of the requirement for businesses to report when they have hit or exceeded certain levels of pollution that affect the air or water surrounding their business. “in general, the e.p.a. does not expect to seek penalties for violations of routine compliance monitoring, integrity testing, sampling, laboratory analysis, training, and reporting or certification obligations in situations where the e.p.a. agrees that covid-19 was the cause of the noncompliance and the entity provides supporting documentation to the e.p.a. upon request.” read more continue reading 'we are the laughingstock of the country,' mississippi mayor laments after governor's deadly order laura clawson daily kos staff friday march 27, 2020 · 9:30 am pdt 2020/03/27 · 09:30 recommend 223 recommend 223 unrecommend 223 268 comments tate reeves tate reeves some mississippi mayors had put controls in place to help fight the spread of coronavirus—until gov. tate reeves issued an order overruling mayors and reopening many businesses. reeves has made his choice about what’s important, at least in the short term. “there’s no question that the purpose of the order was to keep businesses open, which is good for the economy,” tupelo mayor jason shelton told the mississippi free press. “it’s definitely putting protections in place for the state’s economy. the flipside is that it’s doing that at the expense of human lives.” read more continue reading trump admin confirms 3 migrant kids in u.s. custody have tested positive for coronavirus gabe ortiz daily kos staff friday march 27, 2020 · 9:00 am pdt 2020/03/27 · 09:00 recommend 60 recommend 60 unrecommend 60 11 comments just days after an immigrant detained at a new jersey facility became the first immigration and customs enforcement (ice) detainee to test positive for the coronavirus, the trump administration has confirmed that three migrant children in custody of the health and human services’ office of refugee resettlement (orr) have also tested positive. cnn reported that as of thursday, 18 children have been tested. “the children are in the care of one of the agency's facilities in new york,” the report continued. “the agency, which is charged with the care of unaccompanied children had earlier stopped placing children in new york amid the increase in coronavirus cases.” according to orr, six workers from at least three different facilities in the state had already tested positive. read more continue reading asking new jersey residents to call police on shelter-in-place violators is a dangerous idea lauren floyd daily kos staff friday march 27, 2020 · 8:30 am pdt 2020/03/27 · 08:30 recommend 68 recommend 68 unrecommend 68 47 comments rev. m. andrew robinson-gaither protests racial profiling by police at lapd headquarters oct. 22, 2001 in los angeles, california. rev. m. andrew robinson-gaither protests racial profiling by police at lapd headquarters oct. 22, 2001 in los angeles, california. in what could prove to be a life-threatening move for marginalized people, newark, new jersey officials are asking residents to slow the spread of coronavirus by calling the police if they see people congregating and violating a city shelter-in-place order. “we will begin with verbal warnings,” newark public safety director anthony ambrose told nj.com. “we want to save lives, not make arrests.” to be short: i don’t believe him. i’ve written too many stories about policies that, for example, attempt to lessen fare evasion or loitering but end up costing black and brown people their lives. it doesn’t ease my fears to know that just about 15 miles north of newark, seven new jersey cops were charged with corruption in cases involving everything from falsifying police reports to using excessive force. i won’t even go into the countless number of times black and brown people have been harassed by white citizen cops who were just positive their darker-complected peers didn’t belong. read more continue reading newer older rss view mobile site upload logo close choose a logo image in .gif, .jpg, or .png format. delete logo choose file submit recommended list community spotlight most shared recent stories © kos media, llc site content may be used for any purpose without explicit permission unless otherwise specified. "kos" and "daily kos" are registered trademarks of kos media, llc. privacy policy daily kos front page elections radio comics rss about staff terms rules of the road dmca copyright notice do not sell my info privacy contact us advertising advertising overview careers jobs merchandise shirts × close close close save changes