skip to content search search for: daily creative thing do one creative thing a day, and stay positive. menu about contact open search telework socks finished! these absolutely flew off my needles! i like the way they turned out, although i imagine a solid yarn would show off the lace a bit better. all this social distancing has been very good for my knitting progress. i checked on ravelry and this is the 10th project i have finished in 2020! sure,... continue reading → march 26, 2020 0 telework socks progress (4) i'm very close to being finished with these already. just a few more decreases and then the dreaded kitchener stitch. a side benefit of doing socks two-at-a-time is that i only have to re-learn how to kitchener stitch once per pair of socks instead of having to run to youtube for help for each sock. march 25, 2020 0 telework socks progress (3) and an early blaugust i like the stripey sock yarn because i can see exactly how much progress i made today with a quick glance at my photos. sadly, less conference calls means less sock progress. i still expect to be finished with them this week. something fun and exciting happened today. my good friend belghast decided to hold... continue reading → march 24, 2020 0 telework socks progress (2) i'm starting week 2 of 100% telework. my extrovert friends are not ok, but i am holding up just fine. i've had a couple of work meetings that included discussion and/or showing off of everyone's hobby projects, which has been fun to see. except when said projects are food related and make me jealous that... continue reading → march 23, 2020 0 telework socks progress spending two straight days in all day webinars has done wonders for my knitting time. if i stay on track these will be by far the fastest socks i've ever made. i'm already completely finished with the heel and on to the gusset. i had been bouncing back and forth between two houses, but since... continue reading → march 20, 2020 1 telework socks started it's day 4 of all telework, all the time. at this rate i'm going to burn through a large amount of my stash before i get to actually set foot back at work. i started a second pair of super easy socks to use up another skein of this stash yarn. since the pattern has... continue reading → march 19, 2020 0 bus socks finished! yesterday was a weird day and i ended up missing a post here, but that doesn't mean i missed my daily knitting! i finished my socks while i was on a conference call. the pattern is super easy socks. i am very pleased that i managed to get the stripes almost perfectly matched. since yesterday... continue reading → march 18, 2020 0 snood finished!!! i started this project back in december of 2018. it followed me through two moves and 3 jobs. i was beginning to worry i would never finish it. i grabbed it as a filler bus project one day last week and it motivated me to finally get it done. the silly thing about it being... continue reading → march 16, 2020 0 harmonize shawl progress (20) it has been over a month since i took a wrong side photo of this project. i like how the two colors look with the stitches more closely blended on this side. i bet this yarn would look great if you knit with the two colors held together. march 13, 2020 0 bus socks progress worsted weight socks work up extremely fast. who could have guessed? i'm questioning my decision to do two at a time, mostly because de-twisting the two balls of yarn on the bus is a bit of an adventure. of course due to recent events maybe that won't matter. we've started having more extensive telework because... continue reading → march 12, 2020 2 a garden experiment this is a new adventure for me. the apartment i lived in last year was so tiny and dark that i barely kept one succulent alive. now i have a big house with lots of light and i have the sudden urge to have all the plants. the house doesn't have much of a yard, but... continue reading → march 11, 2020 0 bus socks started i cast these on over the weekend because i wanted them to be ready to go once my hat was done. i'm not quite brave enough to try fingering weight socks on the bus yet, so these are some simple worsted ones. i figure i can wear them around the house to keep my feet... continue reading → march 10, 2020 0 posts navigation older posts search search for: categories art (12) blog (31) cooking (14) paper (7) photography (12) plastic (5) uncategorized (3) writing (20) yarn (702) tags afghan amigurumi animals bag bat beads blanket blapril blaugust bus knitting cables cake cal cardigan cats coffee cozy colorwork cowl crochet digital art dishcloth double knitting dough ear warmer fiction finished project fish game of thrones gloves goals halloween hat holidays hoodie knitting lace learning new things mcal mittens monsters mug rug nature new project night in the woods ocean origami pacific rim painting pizza plants plastic models poetry pride random craftery rug sale scarf sci-fi sea creatures sewing shawl skulls slippers social socks star wars stash stash buster traditions travel tv video games xmas yarn daily creative thing rss feed rss - posts powered by wordpress.com. up ↑ post to cancel privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy