foreign policy magazine sign in subscribe subscribe upgrade to insider upgrade to insider latest news analysis podcasts the magazine channels economics security elephants in the room shadow government her power close newsletters your fp insider access: power maps conference calls special reports search latest when home is more dangerous than the coronavirus lockdowns are leaving domestic violence victims worldwide trapped with abusers. argument | harriet williamson death by drone: america’s vicious legacy in afghanistan as the united states prepares to leave, thousands of killings remain unprobed, and washington refuses to talk about them. report | emran feroz today’s coronavirus anger can revive tomorrow’s welfare state under the right conditions, social frustration can herald the dawn of new political solidarity. argument | james traub, paul von chamier the political wizardry of benjamin netanyahu in one stroke, the israeli leader has extended his term and weakened an opponent. dispatch | joshua mitnick see all stories meet the staff fp analytics fp events work at fp subscription services reprint permissions writer’s guidelines fp guides – graduate education fp for education fp archive buy back issues advertise with fp privacy policy contact us sign in subscribe subscribe upgrade to insider upgrade search toggle display of website navigation argument: bringing the pain bringing the pain... share: daniel w. drezner daniel w. drezner is professor of international politics at the fletcher school of law and diplomacy at tufts university and a senior editor at the national interest. prior to fletcher, he taught at the university of chicago and the university of colorado at boulder. drezner has received fellowships from the german marshall fund of the united states, the council on foreign relations, and harvard university. he has previously held positions with civic education project, the rand corporation, and the treasury department. follow daniel w. drezner: on twitter stories by daniel w. drezner bringing the pain argument | daniel w. drezner march 7, 2014, 4:37 pm not your dad’s academy column | daniel w. drezner february 20, 2014, 11:46 pm there’s something rotten in hogsmeade column | daniel w. drezner february 5, 2014, 5:48 pm altitude sickness column | daniel w. drezner january 23, 2014, 11:30 pm bob gates doesn’t know much about history column | daniel w. drezner january 16, 2014, 7:25 pm load more by daniel w. drezner | return to staff list latest when home is more dangerous than the coronavirus march 27, 2020, 4:40 pm death by drone: america’s vicious legacy in afghanistan march 27, 2020, 4:03 pm today’s coronavirus anger can revive tomorrow’s welfare state march 27, 2020, 3:27 pm the political wizardry of benjamin netanyahu march 27, 2020, 2:42 pm is the u.s. also to blame in the oil price war? march 27, 2020, 1:56 pm see all stories trending 1 the coronavirus is the worst intelligence failure in u.s. history 2 how the world will look after the coronavirus pandemic 3 sweden is open for business during its coronavirus outbreak 4 in germany, coronavirus is no longer a distant threat 5 yes, blame china for the virus meet the staff fp analytics fp events work at fp subscription services reprint permissions writer’s guidelines fp guides – graduate education fp for education fp archive buy back issues advertise with fp privacy policy contact us powered by wordpress.com vip © 2020, the slate group