skip to primary navigation skip to main content danny brown husband. father. writer. wordpress guy. about books my work podcast newsletter blog work with me show search search this website hide search journal it’s ok to get angry so it’s midweek here in port sydney, ontario, where i live. our kids are on the third day of their extended march break and, much like everyone else in this new normal we find ourselves in, it’s starting to kick in. the frustration. the boredom. and, yes, the anger. anger that life will probably be like this for beyond the foreseeable future. yes, the school is closed for another two weeks, but we’re already prepared for it being longer – something our provincial government has already suggested. anger that the vacation my wife and i had planned for this week – our first as a family in 12 years – had to be canceled. anger that political sides and supporters are still taking pot shots at each other to win points, as opposed to working together to save lives. anger at the selfish assholes that know the risks of ignoring the advice of health experts, and continue as life is normal. group meetings, house parties, and more. and, i guess, anger the fact i’m letting myself get angry at this stuff, when the world seems to be falling around us, and we need to support each other as opposed to getting angry at things we can’t change. but then i think – you know what? it’s okay to get angry. it’s okay to want to scream, or punch the wall, or smash dishes (note: i haven’t done this and am not suggesting you do either). it’s okay to feel this way, because we don’t have an equivalent on which to measure this by. our way of life has changed. perhaps irrevocably. and one way of dealing with that is through anger, because it’s a natural reaction. besides, anger – healthy anger – is good for you and can actually help you get through this current situation, as well as ensuring your anger doesn’t result in hurt for those around you. so. give yourself permission to be angry. give yourself permission to be okay with feeling that way when it hits you. know you’re not alone, and that more people just like you and me are feeling the exact same way. allow yourself the angry moments, just as you allow yourself the loving, positive, “this is how we’ll get through this” ones. it’s the natural thing to do. on blogging again, and other little changes so a year or so ago – january 11, to be precise – i published a piece on this blog about some of the changes that i was going to be making. i’d been experimenting with podcasting for a few months leading up to the post, and had really enjoyed the experience. read more the departure lounge is getting fuller these days the departure lounge is getting fuller these days. a quote from a book i’ve just finished, “made in scotland: my grand adventures in a wee country” by scottish comedic legend billy connolly. it refers to a conversation between him and an old friend. both men are in their 70’s, and seeing more of their friends die around them as they enter old age. read more people are upset about the super bowl halftime show – really? with the super bowl weekend just gone, it seems more people are talking about the halftime show with shakira and jlo than the actual winners of the game. and, to be honest, it’s kind of ridiculous. read more episode 9: the fallacy of big meaning success often in life, we’re told big equals successful. bigger houses, bigger bank accounts, bigger pay checks. yet is this true? does big really mean success? or is success defined by how you’re truly seen, versus how you feel you should be seen? listen now go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 278 go to next page » © 2020 © danny brown 2020 - made with ♥ on genesis join a community of 12,300+ good people every sunday i share my thoughts on life, creating our legacy, and how we can do good work that means something. always free, never spammy, leave at any time