events resource center magazine contact us march 27, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: dreamforce marketing 101 coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise dare to inspire shares the fire of inspiration in work and life published: mar 15, 2020 by pierre debois in business books, leadership books, management books, motivational books 1 46 shares | 46 email this article 46 shares 46 email this article usefulness content freshness dare to inspire will show you how to best transform your budding inspiration into new business ideas to pursue. dare to inspire seems like everyone wants to provide affirmations, as way to inspire. yet true inspiration requires a more systematic and organized effort to be sustainable. if you are looking for inspiration in your career or team, you should check out the book dare to inspire – sustain the fire of inspiration in work and life. it will show you how to best transform inspiration into new ideas to pursue. the authors, allison holzer, sandra spataro, and jen grace baron, are cofounders of inspirecorps, an organization that partners to provide inspiration counseling and guidance. what is dare to inspire about? the book elaborates on how inspiration is a critical resource in modern work. the authors founded inspirecorp based on their shared perspective on how inspiration influences how value is delivered to clients. with reflection on their experiences, they had an epiphany – sustained inspiration was essential to have a positive impact. “the spark of inspiration can transform our mindsets: it makes the impossible seem possible. it can change how we see our own capacity, it can even change how we seen the world.” establish sustained inspiration. it means connecting to workday structure and experiences. look for examples throughout the book. consider the good nods to researched self-management as well. for example, notice how the book juxtaposes burnout and inspiration. the book defines burnout. it calls it exhaustion, cynicism, and a professional inefficacy. it represents a lack of confidence. as a result, look for inspiration to be rooted in the possibilities of new experiences. you’ll also find it rooted in invincibility. this represents confidence to approach those experiences. the authors frame their inspiration concepts. they suggest keeping systematic thinking in mind. for example, read this excerpt. do you know when you are not inspired? “emotions are data points for you. your emotional state can indicate that you aren’t inspired and need to do something to turn the situation around….it’s not the same for everyone, so you need to learn what your individual indicators are that alert you when your inspiration is dipping.” look on the same page. you will see an inspiration inventory. he or she score their feelings. they work towards the inspiration of a given instance. throughout the book holzer, spataro, and baron use phrases like “inspiration engine”. they conjure thoughtful insight. and work more effectively than any clichés found on rehashed memes. what i liked about dare to inspire the authors do a terrific job. they guide the reader to specific, well-researched reasons. inspiration must be managed. they advocate four categories of behaviors. they lead to desired outcomes. for example, decide with speed and conviction, deliver reliably, engage for impact, and adapt proactively. leaders from industry exhibit “behaviors that correspond to these four categories”. the authors go on to note examples. as a result, these behaviors relate to company performance. i also liked the “road map to sustain inspiration around a particular area of focus.” this chart maps out the inspiration engine. it remains a question prompt to consider. for example, ask yourself how you will use this engine creatively. look at your current situation. consider the overall goal of the road map. it also figures as the overall goal of the book. develop a sustained inspiration. it leads to truly visionary thinking. and this creativity solidifies a team. and it aids your own professional journey. dare to inspire makes a solid case. it describes sustained inspiration as a skilled quality. and claims you can use it as a working asset for your organization. as a result, dare to inspire should be on your short “must-read” list. seek an approach to make your team feel better connected and customers feel appreciated. image: amazon.com 1 comment ▼ 2020-03-15 editor's picks bring your human to work rediscovers a workplace with real people in it new book tells small business owners how to communicate their value engagement fundraising attracts donors using digital marketing tactics pierre debois bizsugar youtube linkedin facebook twitter pierre debois is associate book editor for small business trends. he is the founder of zimana, a consultancy providing strategic analysis to small and medium sized businesses that rely on web analytics data. a gary, indiana native, pierre is currently based in brooklyn. he blogs about marketing, finance, social media, and analytics at zimana blog. one reaction aira bongco march 27, 2020 at 1:41 am we live in a time where influencers thrive. this happens because of inspiration. they are able to touch millions or thousands of people because of their content reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website report this ad subscribe follow @smallbiztrends rss linkedin pinterest itunes subscribe to our newsletter submit report this ad book categories search for: biographies customer service economics leadership management marketing motivational sales self improvement social media startup technology women entrepreneur small business resources your guide to business gift giving view all report this ad small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit