home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » recipe » dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars december 11, 2019 domestically creative leave a comment 42shares facebook twitter pinterest dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars hey pretty handy girl readers! it’s amanda from domestically creative and i’m back with another tutorial. this time i’m sharing one of my absolute favorite holiday recipes for dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars. who doesn’t love adding a little bit of peppermint to their chocolate, especially around the holidays? these cookie bars are sure to be a hit at your house for christmas, and would make a great recipe to add to santa’s cookie plate! check out the instructions below. ingredients 1 cup unsalted butter (2 sticks), softened 1/2 cup sugar 1/2 cup brown sugar 1 tsp vanilla extract 1/4 tsp peppermint extract 2 large eggs, room temperature 2 cups flour 1 tsp baking soda 2/3 cup cocoa powder 1/2 tsp salt 1/2 cup white chocolate chips 1/2 cup crushed peppermint candies, divided instructions for dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars preheat your oven to 325 degrees and grease a 9×13 baking pan with non-stick spray or line with parchment paper. in a medium mixing bowl, whisk together the flour, salt, baking soda and cocoa powder. set that bowl aside. in a large mixing bowl, or the bowl of a stand mixer, combine sugars, extracts and butter. beat on medium speed until smooth. add in eggs, one at a time, mixing well each time until they are fully incorporated into the batter. slowly mix in the flour mixture from step 2. the batter will get very thick and mixing may become tough with a hand mixer. fold in the white chocolate chips and 1/4 cup of crushed peppermint candies. spread the cookie batter out onto the baking pan prepared in step 1. use the back of a spatula or large spoon to smooth out the batter. again it will be very thick and will not spread so you will need to push it around to get into the corners. bake for 10-12 minutes until the center is cooked through and the edges are slightly crisp. after removing your dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars from the oven, sprinkle the remaining 1/4 cup of crushed peppermint candies on top. let the cookie bars cool before cutting and serving. tip: if you’d rather have individual cookies instead of bars, use a cookie dough scoop to make round balls and place those on a baking sheet. bake the cookies for 8-10 minutes at 350 degrees. note that the cookies do not spread much while baking. these dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars are one of my favorite recipes to make for the holidays. they are simple to prepare and the subtle peppermint flavor really gets me in a holiday mood! what are your favorite cookie recipes for christmas? if you love this recipe make sure you pin it to save for later! i’m amanda, and i am the creator and voice behind the food and diy blog, domestically creative. what started as a place to share updates with friends and family after we moved from illinois to tennessee and then to texas, turned into a passion for finding creative and frugal ways to feed us and decorate our homes. i have always had the “make it myself” attitude and i’m not afraid to bust out the power tools or get creative when it comes to decorating our home on a budget. you can usually find me scouring the local thrift stores, garage sales and estate sales looking for my next makeover (like this litter box cabinet), or dreaming up ways to make our new house feel more like home. my most recent project was giving my home office a much needed facelift. some of the plans included creating a fun inspirational accent wall and adding pegboard to store my craft hoards. i currently call missouri home, where i live with my husband, dog, and 2 cats in a pretty dull, late 90’s split level. my husband and i both love to travel the u.s and recently purchased a small travel trailer to tag along in our journeys. in our free time together we can usually be found working together on a home project, exploring a new place, or just lounging with our pup, delilah. i’d love for you to connect with me on social media via facebook, instagram, pinterest and twitter! see all of amanda’s tutorials here. 42shares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: recipe leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok