welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog the boston globe to offer job interviews to micromasters® program completers published on: feb 20, 2020 by carolyn tiernan 1872 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to announce the latest company that is collaborating with edx to offer job interviews for micromasters® program completers. to source candidates with data, digital, and strategic skill sets, boston globe media partners (bgmp) is offering job interviews for select micromasters program certificate holders for key roles with its the boston globe, boston.com, and stat brands. the boston globe will grant interviews to... read more about the boston globe to offer job interviews to micromasters® program completers these knowledge areas will define the next decade published on: jan 01, 2020 by livia halltari 4612 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post will 2020 be the year of ai, the year of automation, or the year of data? the answer isn’t any one of these. the next year, and more broadly, the next decade, will be defined by a combination of new technologies, with a new emphasis on the necessity to reskill and upskill to keep up with the new prevalence of artificial intelligence, machine learning, cybersecurity,... read more about these knowledge areas will define the next decade completing her education completely online: meet mikella published on: jul 31, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 3767 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we sat down with mikella, a young student from the island of st. lucia. mikella found edx after leaving high school when she was 15, and has been completing her schooling entirely on edx. what program/courses did you take on edx, and what were your goals in taking it? i have completed 16 courses on edx including the majority of the harvardx data science professional... read more about completing her education completely online: meet mikella 10 important ways analytical skills boost your resume published on: jul 15, 2019 by david mcpherson 53556 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post analytical skills say a lot about a person. in particular, they say a lot of things that are very attractive to an employer no matter what job position you hold. when you demonstrate an ability to analyze data and make informed recommendations, you quickly become an indispensable part of the team. you become the go-to person for helping making sense of the mountains of customer and... read more about 10 important ways analytical skills boost your resume data scientists: what they do and how to become one published on: may 03, 2019 by jerry hamedi 35267 views 2 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post data is everywhere. now that new, emerging technologies have advanced our ability to accumulate data, companies of all sizes, across all industries, are collecting massive amounts of data. in many ways, that’s the easy part. the hard part is actually manipulating and making sense of all that data. organizations need someone to analyze it in order to help make better, data-driven decisions. cue the data... read more about data scientists: what they do and how to become one high demand has led to a nationwide shortage of 150,000+ people with data science skills published on: mar 11, 2019 by alan liang, uc berkeley 3493 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post more than 90% of the world’s data has been produced in the last two years–a meteoric rise that’s driving a crucial need for data professionals. according to a recent linkedin jobs report, “data science skills are in high demand across industries,” with a national shortage of more than 150,000 people. in the next decade, millions of new jobs will require the ability to think critically,... read more about high demand has led to a nationwide shortage of 150,000+ people with data science skills fully online, top-ranked master’s degrees now available on edx published on: oct 10, 2018 by anant agarwal 9407 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post today we are proud to announce that edx launched nine new master’s degree programs. these online programs offer high-quality master’s education in a flexible way and at disruptive price points, in subjects that address today’s global skills gap. this new offering marks an important milestone for us, as we continue to reimagine education through innovative, stackable credentials that address the needs of today’s changing global... read more about fully online, top-ranked master’s degrees now available on edx 12 courses you can complete in 6 weeks or less! published on: mar 22, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 12744 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post using big data, analytics & statistics to advance his career: meet, nilaish published on: oct 27, 2017 by carolyn tiernan 4722 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i found edx, and microsoft’s data science essentials course while researching online certification courses on data science. as a ph.d. candidate, i regularly dive into a lot of research and absolutely loved the skill set taught through the data science essentials course. the videos provided were interactive, well-structured and convenient. through this course, i learned about r studio & azure ml – a powerful tool for... read more about using big data, analytics & statistics to advance his career: meet, nilaish microsoft professional programs: data science, big data and front-end web development published on: aug 17, 2017 by justine goulart 9318 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post 3 in-demand programs to help you jumpstart your career built in collaboration with leading organizations and experts, microsoft professional programs (mpp) are designed to teach you the skills you need to start the career you want. after the successful launch of the mpp in data science, microsoft has created two new tracks in two of the most in-demand and growing fields today, big data and front-end... read more about microsoft professional programs: data science, big data and front-end web development page 1 of 3 current page: 1 page 2 page 3 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close