welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog edx insider: data analysis in marketing published on: jan 31, 2020 by livia halltari 2335 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post even if you don’t work in the data science field, data analysis skills and tools are still very likely to come in handy. we chatted with a few members of the edx marketing team to find out the ways these skills arise in their day-to-day work, how they were able to pick up on tools in this field despite not having a background in data... read more about edx insider: data analysis in marketing top-ranked programs that will prepare you for 2020 and beyond published on: jan 02, 2020 by livia halltari 4396 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this next year and decade won’t be defined by a singular trend, but rather a combination of emerging technologies and skill sets — the growing focus on ai, automation, digital leadership, and more. an easy start to get a leg up on the trends is one course, but to dive even deeper, consider starting a program. start exploring our hand-picked list of top-ranked programs created... read more about top-ranked programs that will prepare you for 2020 and beyond 10 important ways analytical skills boost your resume published on: jul 15, 2019 by david mcpherson 53556 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post analytical skills say a lot about a person. in particular, they say a lot of things that are very attractive to an employer no matter what job position you hold. when you demonstrate an ability to analyze data and make informed recommendations, you quickly become an indispensable part of the team. you become the go-to person for helping making sense of the mountains of customer and... read more about 10 important ways analytical skills boost your resume data scientists: what they do and how to become one published on: may 03, 2019 by jerry hamedi 35267 views 2 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post data is everywhere. now that new, emerging technologies have advanced our ability to accumulate data, companies of all sizes, across all industries, are collecting massive amounts of data. in many ways, that’s the easy part. the hard part is actually manipulating and making sense of all that data. organizations need someone to analyze it in order to help make better, data-driven decisions. cue the data... read more about data scientists: what they do and how to become one new professional certificate programs develop critical skills industry leaders seek today published on: sep 12, 2017 by anant agarwal 6897 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post microsoft professional programs: data science, big data and front-end web development published on: aug 17, 2017 by justine goulart 9318 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post 3 in-demand programs to help you jumpstart your career built in collaboration with leading organizations and experts, microsoft professional programs (mpp) are designed to teach you the skills you need to start the career you want. after the successful launch of the mpp in data science, microsoft has created two new tracks in two of the most in-demand and growing fields today, big data and front-end... read more about microsoft professional programs: data science, big data and front-end web development 3 steps to developing a data-savvy workforce published on: aug 02, 2017 by becky sacks 3351 views no comments posted in: business like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post a key challenge facing companies today isn’t the collection and management of customer data but, rather, its analysis. while technologies like hadoop and azure make it easier to collect large amounts of data from multiple customer touch points, much of this data’s potential is largely untapped. to keep up with the quantity of new information, companies need well-trained, analytics-savvy employees who can spot trends, identify... read more about 3 steps to developing a data-savvy workforce mit professional education course helps brings complex data science concepts to life published on: may 16, 2017 by mit professional education 6070 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post according to industry analyst gartner, data science, analytics and machine learning applications are “the engines of the future”. amazon, netflix and google set the stage, and now it seems every organization is realizing how the data we collect can be used to profoundly impact and improve an organization’s performance. the growing pressure for organizations to turn data into business value, combined with the proliferation of... read more about mit professional education course helps brings complex data science concepts to life a top analytics program in an affordable, flexible way published on: jan 11, 2017 by anant agarwal 20024 views 4 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post today, we are proud to announce that we are working with the georgia institute of technology on a new online master of science (oms) degree in analytics that will be offered for less than $10,000, a quarter of the cost of traditional on-campus programs. this top 10 ranked analytics program will be a multidisciplinary collaboration between the georgia tech’s college of engineering, college of computing... read more about a top analytics program in an affordable, flexible way the future of data science: q&a with mit professional education’s devavrat shah published on: sep 26, 2016 by data science: data to insights course team 18835 views 2 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in this guest blog post, devavrat shah, co-director of mit professional education’s new online course, data science: data to insights, discusses the evolution of new technologies and how data science professionals can ensure their skill set remains comprehensive and able to meet challenges as they arise in the digital marketplace. we are in the midst of a digital revolution. the amount of data being generated... read more about the future of data science: q&a with mit professional education’s devavrat shah page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close