programs back to menu programming and development back to menu programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence back to menu programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing back to menu programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science back to menu programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business back to menu programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems back to menu programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career back to menu career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise back to menu overview our approach solution about us sign in get started programs programming and development programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise overview our approach solution about us sign in get started new! nanodegree program become a data engineer data engineering is the foundation for the new world of big data. enroll now to build production-ready data infrastructure, an essential skill for advancing your data career. download syllabusenroll now estimated time 5 months at 5-10 hrs/week enroll by march 27, 2020 get access to classroom immediately on enrollment prerequisites intermediate python & sql see prerequisites in detail built in collaboration with what you will learn download syllabus syllabus data engineering learn to design data models, build data warehouses and data lakes, automate data pipelines, and work with massive datasets. at the end of the program, you’ll combine your new skills by completing a capstone project. learn to design data models, build data warehouses and data lakes, automate data pipelines, and work with massive datasets. at the end of the program, you’ll combine your new skills by completing a capstone project. hide details 5 months to complete prerequisite knowledge to be successful in this program, you should have intermediate python and sql skills.see detailed requirements. data modeling learn to create relational and nosql data models to fit the diverse needs of data consumers. use etl to build databases in postgresql and apache cassandra.data modeling with postgresdata modeling with apache cassandra cloud data warehouses sharpen your data warehousing skills and deepen your understanding of data infrastructure. create cloud-based data warehouses on amazon web services (aws).build a cloud data warehouse spark and data lakes understand the big data ecosystem and how to use spark to work with massive datasets. store big data in a data lake and query it with spark.build a data lake data pipelines with airflow schedule, automate, and monitor data pipelines using apache airflow. run data quality checks, track data lineage, and work with data pipelines in production.data pipelines with airflow capstone project combine what you've learned throughout the program to build your own data engineering portfolio project.data engineering capstone need to prepare? if you need to sharpen your pre-requisite skills, try the programming for data science nanodegree program. the average base pay for a data engineer in the u.s. is $115k! all our programs include real-world projects from industry experts with real world projects and immersive content built in partnership with top tier companies, you’ll master the tech skills companies want. technical mentor support our knowledgeable mentors guide your learning and are focused on answering your questions, motivating you and keeping you on track. personal career coach and career services you’ll have access to career coaching sessions, interview prep advice, and resume and online professional profile reviews to help you grow in your career. flexible learning program get a custom learning plan tailored to fit your busy life. learn at your own pace and reach your personal goals on the schedule that works best for you. program offeringsfull list of offerings included: enrollment includes: class content content co-created with insight icon-checkmarkcheckmark real-world projects icon-checkmarkcheckmark project reviews icon-checkmarkcheckmark project feedback from experienced reviewers icon-checkmarkcheckmark student services technical mentor support new icon-checkmarkcheckmark student community improved icon-checkmarkcheckmark career services personal career coaching new icon-checkmarkcheckmark interview preparations icon-checkmarkcheckmark resume services icon-checkmarkcheckmark github review icon-checkmarkcheckmark linkedin profile review icon-checkmarkcheckmark resume shared with 95+ employers new icon-checkmarkcheckmark succeed with personalized services we provide services customized for your needs at every step of your learning journey to ensure your success! experienced project reviewers technical mentor support personal career coach get personalized feedback on your projects reviews by the numbers 2000+ project reviewers 1.8m projects reviewed 4.85/5 reviewer ratings 3 hour avg project review turnaround time reviewer services personalized feedback unlimited submissions and feedback loops practical tips and industry best practices additional suggested resources to improve succeed with personalized services we provide services customized for your needs at every step of your learning journey to ensure your success! project reviewers technical mentor support career coaching get personalized feedback on your projects reviews by the numbers 2000+ project reviewers 1.8m projects reviewed 4.85/5 reviewer ratings 3 hour avg project review turnaround time reviewer services personalized feedback unlimited submissions and feedback loops practical tips and industry best practices additional suggested resources to improve learn with the best amanda moran developer advocate at datastax amanda is a developer advocate for datastax after spending the last 6 years as a software engineer on 4 different distributed databases. her passion is bridging the gap between customers and engineering. she has degrees from university of washington and santa clara university. ben goldberg staff engineer at spothero in his career as an engineer, ben goldberg has worked in fields ranging from computer vision to natural language processing. at spothero, he founded and built out their data engineering team, using airflow as one of the key technologies. sameh el-ansary ceo at novelari & assistant professor at nile university sameh is the ceo of novelari, lecturer at nile university, and the american university in cairo (auc) where he lectured on security, distributed systems, software engineering, blockchain and bigdata engineering. olli iivonen data engineer at wolt olli works as a data engineer at wolt. he has several years of experience on building and managing data pipelines on various data warehousing environments and has been a fan and active user of apache airflow since its first incarnations. david drummond vp of engineering at insight david is vp of engineering at insight where he enjoys breaking down difficult concepts and helping others learn data engineering. david has a phd in physics from uc riverside. judit lantos data engineer at split judit was formerly an instructor at insight data science helping software engineers and academic coders transition to de roles. currently, she is a data engineer at split where she works on the statistical engine of their full-stack experimentation platform. juno lee curriculum lead at udacity juno is the curriculum lead for the school of data science. she has been sharing her passion for data and teaching, building several courses at udacity. as a data scientist, she built recommendation engines, computer vision and nlp models, and tools to analyze user behavior. student reviews 4.4 (213) dinesh s. excellent.. initially thought how come they teach industry standard / real time projects.. but after joining the course, i am with udemy. yes!!, teaching not only concepts and technical terms. teaching the industry best practice to write code, documentation, subject matters and mentor is really helping and validating all the key aspects before completing the project. really good and enjoying in my learning. thank you rodrigo g. the first project shows that the team is putting in a lot of effort on creating thorough and creative projects! good knowledge of databases, python, sql and even pandas (which was new to me) is needed. the online notebook is great, useful, and functional! and i could not forget mentioning the project reviews: really well done!! andrew m. the course is well structured. it's easier enough for you to progress consistently and hard enough so that you're constantly learning and being challenged. i also appreciate the fact that there's someone to go to to ask questions; this gives you the confidence and peace of mind to be able to keep on trying and moving forward. sonny o. the lessons are highly informative. i like the hands-on labs we get to practice on throughout each lesson, since it helps reinforce what is being taught. and by far what really drives all of it home are the projects. i wish it was possible to search in the chat. that would really make everything so much better. stanislav v. i really enjoyed this programm and learned a lot of practical things: data modeling using sql or no-sql approach with postgres and cassandra, working with amazon cloud web services (redshift database and s3 storage), data analysis using apache spark, as well as etl pipeline construction using apache airflow. eugenio c. this nanodegree taught me all the essentials tools to begin my path as a data engineer. all projects are really challenges and focus on real problems. i would definitely recommend this course, there's no course on the web that you can learn all these frameworks and tools in just one course. next related nanodegree programs programming for data science nanodegree program learn to code in python and sql beginner data scientist nanodegree program become a data scientist advanced program details program overview - why should i take this program? why should i enroll? the data engineering field is expected to continue growing rapidly over the next several years, and there’s huge demand for data engineers across industries. udacity has collaborated with industry professionals to offer a world-class learning experience so you can advance your data engineering career. you will get hands-on experience running data pipelines, building relational and nosql data models, creating databases on the cloud, and more. udacity provides high-quality support as you master in-demand skills that will qualify you for high-value jobs in the data engineering field and help you land a job you love. by the end of the nanodegree program, you will have an impressive portfolio of real-world projects and valuable hands-on experience. what jobs will this program prepare me for? this program is designed to prepare people to become data engineers. this includes job titles such as analytics engineer, big data engineer, data platform engineer, and others. data engineering skills are also helpful for adjacent roles, such as data analysts, data scientists, machine learning engineers, or software engineers. how do i know if this program is right for me? this nanodegree program offers an ideal path for experienced programmers to advance their data engineering career. if you enjoy solving important technical challenges and want to learn to work with massive datasets, this is a great way to get hands-on practice with a variety of data engineering principles and techniques. the prerequisites for this program include proficiency in python and sql. you should be comfortable writing functions and loops, using classes, working with libraries in python. you should be comfortable querying data using joins, aggregations, and subqueries in sql. what is the school of data science, and how do i know which program is right for me? udacity’s school of data science consists of several different nanodegree programs, each of which offers the opportunity to build data skills, and advance your career. these programs are organized around four main career roles: business analyst, data analyst, data scientist, and data engineer. the school of data currently offers two clearly-defined career paths. these paths are differentiated by whether they focus on developing programming skills or not. whether you are just getting started in data, are looking to augment your existing skill set with in-demand data skills, or intend to pursue advanced studies and career roles, udacity’s school of data has the right path for you! visit “how to choose the data science program that’s right for you” to learn more. enrollment and admission do i need to apply? what are the admission criteria? there is no application. this nanodegree program accepts everyone, regardless of experience and specific background. what are the prerequisites for enrollment? the data engineer nanodegree program is designed for students with intermediate python and sql skills. in order to successfully complete the program, students should be comfortable with the following programing concepts: strings, numbers, and variables statements, operators, and expressions lists, tuples, and dictionaries conditions, loops procedures, objects, modules, and libraries troubleshooting and debugging research & documentation problem-solving algorithms and data structures joins aggregations subqueries table definition and manipulation (create, update, insert, alter) if i do not meet the requirements to enroll, what should i do? udacity’s programming for data science nanodegree program is great preparation for the data engineer nanodegree program. you’ll learn to code with python and sql. you can also prepare by taking a number of udacity’s free courses, such as: introduction to python programming sql for data analysis tuition and term of program how is this nanodegree program structured? the data engineer nanodegree program is comprised of content and curriculum to support six (6) projects. we estimate that students can complete the program in five (5) months working 10 hours per week. each project will be reviewed by the udacity reviewer network. feedback will be provided and if you do not pass the project, you will be asked to resubmit the project until it passes. how long is this nanodegree program? access to this nanodegree program runs for the length of time specified in the payment card above. if you do not graduate within that time period, you will continue learning with month to month payments. see the terms of use and faqs for other policies regarding the terms of access to our nanodegree programs. can i switch my start date? can i get a refund? please see the udacity program faqs for policies on enrollment in our programs. software and hardware - what do i need for this program? what software and versions will i need in this program? there are no software and version requirements to complete this nanodegree program. all coursework and projects can be done via student workspaces in the udacity online classroom.show less data engineer download syllabus enroll now featured programs product manager ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow data streaming ux designer java developer ai product manager sensor fusion engineer data visualization cloud developer cloud dev ops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms marketing analytics data engineer android basics android developer ios developer business analytics data analyst front end web developer full stack web developer intro to programming intro to machine learning with pytorch machine learning engineer predictive analytics for business programming for data science with python react only at udacity artificial intelligence deep learning digital marketing flying car and autonomous flight engineer intro to self-driving cars machine learning engineer robotics software engineer self-driving car engineer udacity schools school of artificial intelligence school of autonomous systems school of business school of data science school of programming school of cloud computing resources catalog career resource center career services hire talent get hired student success udacity talks scholarships what is ai? talk to an advisor programs veterans georgia tech company about blog in the news jobs become an instructor udacity intersect enterprise udacity for enterprise hire talent support contact us help and faq service status tech requirements © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. legal & privacy site map united states china "nanodegree" is a registered trademark of udacity. © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. udacity is not an accredited university and we don't confer traditional degrees. udacity nanodegree programs represent collaborations with our industry partners who help us develop our content and who hire many of our program graduates. we use cookies to optimize site functionality, personalize content and ads, and give you the best possible experience. learn more accept cookie preferences