skip to content dating sims on the holodeck primary menu menu home blog feed dating sims on the holodeck dating sims on the holodeck kusoge for kusonin, and other fine beings such as yourself. february in review, march anticipated february 29, 2020 by theroyalfamily pretty boring month, i’d say. at least for gaming, for me. only two posts the entire month! what did i even do? murkmire event in eso. in anticipation, i got my newest character (a nord nightblade) all the way through the faction story, up to the point where the faction stories merged. i’m not doing… read more loving the backlog 2020 february 12, 2020 by theroyalfamily according to later levels, this week is love your backlog week. and i so do love my backlog. i love it so much, i just keep making it bigger and bigger! but just how big is big? well, i just don’t know! or rather, i didn’t know up through last night. as i mentioned i… read more a quick update february 11, 2020 by theroyalfamily just a quick update, since i’m not dead. january gaming was just basically eso, with dailies in dragalia lost and playing the events in sto and granblue fantasy. made a new character in eso (2h/s+b nightblade tank), kinda on a whim (since some bloggers i knew were talking about how eso’s combat was kinda not… read more star trek picard: ep 1 review january 25, 2020 by theroyalfamily to put it right at the front: i didn’t like it. i’m going to put a short version of my review that i’ve placed elsewhere (i believe in recycling!), then go into more detail: in short, if you’re looking for a generic sci-fi show, this isn’t too bad. not good either, but not terrible. 4/10,… read more my perfect video games january 18, 2020 by theroyalfamily way back a month ago, kim over at later levels made a post about their perfect video game. i’ve been thinking about this post a lot (i was thinking about posting what you see today since that day), but here it is now. this is obviously a complicated question, and i didn’t really think a… read more view all posts follow my blog get new content delivered directly to your inbox. subscribe leave a reply cancel reply enter your comment here... fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: email (required) (address never made public) name (required) website you are commenting using your wordpress.com account. ( log out / change ) you are commenting using your google account. ( log out / change ) you are commenting using your twitter account. ( log out / change ) you are commenting using your facebook account. ( log out / change ) cancel connecting to %s notify me of new comments via email. notify me of new posts via email. search for: follow dating sims on the holodeck on wordpress.com rss feed rss - posts follow me on twittermy tweets blogs i follow gamer girl confessions moegamer why i game adventure rules joe and sto spawny's space mmo juggler adam piggott according to hoyt honest gamer nerd girl thoughts unidentified signal source things that we have heard and known the mmoist shadowz abstract gaming blog mailvaltar leeksplays later levels i'm not squishy can i play too? blaugust gold 2019 posts i like march 2020 s m t w t f s 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 « feb archives february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 blog at wordpress.com. gamer girl confessions where games and geekdom unite. moegamer the best of overlooked and underappreciated computer and video games, from yesterday and today why i game wandering worlds, wondering words... adventure rules the essential companion of heroic adventurers joe and sto navigating the sto quadrant of star trek gaming spawny's space the place where threads are born off-topic mmo juggler playing multiple mmos and trying to keep sane. adam piggott gentleman adventurer according to hoyt taking over the world and leaving it ruthlessly alone honest gamer providing honest opinions, reviews, thoughtful essays and other content on all things gaming. nerd girl thoughts gaming & other geekery unidentified signal source a blog about life, gaming, and everything. things that we have heard and known uttering dark sayings from of old. the mmoist it's the mmoest. shadowz abstract gaming blog real life and gaming collide mailvaltar mmorpgs and other stuff leeksplays video games, technology & more later levels xp comes with age i'm not squishy games, mmos, and whatever else strikes my fancy can i play too? insert funny thing here - lol create your website at wordpress.comget started privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy