davidthompson david thompson subscribe 1 £5.00 gbp - monthly 2 £10.00 gbp - monthly 3 £20.00 gbp - monthly 4 £50.00 gbp - monthly subscribe to this blog's feed recent posts friday ephemera the sound of her unspooling the lockdown diaries please update your files and lifestyles accordingly friday ephemera modern love above us, our betters self service friday ephemera a dilemma presents itself recent comments lady cutekitten of lolcat on friday ephemera pst314 on friday ephemera rick on friday ephemera will on friday ephemera hal on friday ephemera darleen on friday ephemera brassg on friday ephemera governor squid on friday ephemera daniel ream on friday ephemera david on friday ephemera search categories academia agonies of the left and then it caught fire anthropology architecture art auto-erotic radicalism basking bees behold my massive lobes beware the brown rain big hooped earrings bionic lingerie blogs books bra hygiene cannabis classic sentences collective toilet management comics culture current affairs dating decisions dental hygiene's racial subtext department of irony dickensian woes emotional support guinea pigs emotional support water bottles engineering ephemera farmyard erotica feats feminist comedy feminist dating feminist fun times feminist poetry slam feminist pornography feminist snow ploughing feminist witchcraft film food and drink free-for-all games gardening's racial subtext gentrification giant vaginas great hustles of our time greatest hits hair his pretty nails history housekeeping hubris meets nemesis ideas if you build it imagination must be punished inadequate towels indignant replies interviews intimate waxing juxtapositions media mischief modern savagery music not often seen parenting policing political nipples politics postmodernism pregnancy presidential genitals problematic cleaning problematic crosswords problematic fitness problematic furniture problematic punctuality pronouns or else psychodrama radical bowel movements radical dirt relocation reheated religion reversed gifs science shakedowns some fraction of a sausage sports stalking mishaps student narcolepsy suburban polygamist ninjas technology television the deep wisdom of celebrities the gods, they mock us the great outdoors the politics of buttocks the thrill of friction the thrill of garbage the thrill of hand dryers the thrill of medicine the thrill of seating the thrill of unemployment the thrill of wind the thrill of woke retailing the thrill of yarn those lying bastards those poor darling armed robbers those poor darling burglars those poor darling looters those poor darling muggers those poor darling paedophiles those poor darling shoplifters those poor darling thieves tomorrow’s products today toys travel tree licking tv wigs you can't afford my radical life see more archives march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 more... blog powered by typepad march 27, 2020 friday ephemera his copper bonsai is better than yours. || serbian ensemble. || like a stubborn jar of pickles. || i was previously unfamiliar with the erotic practice of stumping. || more joys of public transport. || portraits rendered in charcoal. || clouds over lake michigan. (h/t, drb) || twitching meat. || lockdown scenes. (h/t, dicentra) || those prone to fainting should look away now. || name the counties of the united states. you have 12 minutes. || virtual tours of gardens and grand houses. || george’s besties. || it helps to have a back-up plan. || hey, kids. come play. || old-school cloaking technology. || simple but effective. || filth removal of note. || and finally, topically, when the guy in front of you is doing this. posted at 00:02 in ephemera | permalink | comments (45) march 26, 2020 the sound of her unspooling sometimes, it can feel surprising that any beauty still exists in the world. it can feel wrong to keep cultivating our gardens while the world shatters outside our windows. yes, it’s time to once again gawp at the mindset of the salon-reader demographic. or at least the salon-writer demographic, with which it presumably overlaps. specifically, a piece by ms alex dew, “a recent graduate of eastern washington university’s master of fine arts programme in creative nonfiction,” and whose urgent bulletin to the world is titled my houseplant garden is a tiny national park donald trump can never destroy. if that sounds a tad overwrought and not entirely even-keeled, do read on. i begin each day by taking a mental inventory of whatever horrors trump has committed since i have been asleep, as one does. scrolling through news outlets and social media on my iphone, even though i know that this probably bad for my mental health. i suspect this may be a matter of putting the cart before the horse. and perhaps tellingly, mental health is mentioned more than once in ms dew’s article. there is evidence that trump’s presidency has had a negative effect on the mental health of many democrats, with 72% of those surveyed in one study reporting an increase in anxiety since he has taken office. sometimes, it’s enough to make me not want to get out of bed. a phenomenon at which we’ve previously marvelled. more than once. after reading the news, it is time to attend to my indoor garden, to do the work of keeping my plants alive: the trimming and the watering and the fertilising. this work is meditation, a way of going on. yes, going on. bravely, heroically, and despite the realisation that your preferred candidate lost an election, four years ago. continue reading "the sound of her unspooling" » posted at 08:18 in anthropology, politics, psychodrama | permalink | comments (55) march 24, 2020 the lockdown diaries time, i think, for an open thread, in which to share links and bicker. feel free to recount your adventures during the old testament event of 2020, aka, the toilet-paper apocalypse. for those in need of diversion, the reheated series is there to be poked at. posted at 06:56 in free-for-all | permalink | comments (79) march 22, 2020 please update your files and lifestyles accordingly from the pages of the atlantic, a new torment for woke sophisticates: the hidden bigotry of crosswords. that sound you hear is barrel-bottom-scraping. the popular puzzles are largely written and edited by older white men, who dictate what makes it into the grid—and what is kept out. the world of woke crossword-puzzlers - because that’s a thing that exists - is one in which enthusiasts, via social media, grumble about white men, bemoan the insufficient prominence of “queer or poc colloquialisms,” share “off-colour jokes about hypothetical titles for a melania trump memoir,” and fret about the exact ratio of male and female names used as clues. because a lack of “gender parity” in crossword puzzle clues constitutes one of “the systemic forces that threaten women.” crossword puzzles can do that, apparently. the list of possible crossword-puzzle wrongdoings is, of course, extensive, ever-growing and not entirely straightforward. transgressions include clues for illegal (“one caught by border patrol”); men (“exasperated comment from a feminist”); and hood (“place with homies”). i’ll give you a moment to steady yourselves, to recover from all that gasping. continue reading "please update your files and lifestyles accordingly" » posted at 11:03 in anthropology, feminist fun times, games, politics, problematic crosswords | permalink | comments (79) march 20, 2020 friday ephemera half-speed frakes has apparently been on a bender. (h/t, damian) || strange beings detected. || i think i heard something moving in the basement. || penguins descending. || a brief history of pandemics. (h/t, dicentra) || sounds from the toilet-paper apocalypse. || yes, picard is still bad. || actual prancing. || “post-capitalist” streaming service: “live weekly shows covering news, the working class, gaming and sports.” || leggy redhead. || ladies got moves. || only 377. || bosch bingeing imminent. || the simple pleasures of baking. || these things happen. || also, these things. || a lady with unusual drawers. || daughter happy, wife displeased. || and finally, nature’s pecking order, a brief illustration. posted at 00:02 in ephemera | permalink | comments (68) march 19, 2020 modern love from the realm of woke sophistication that is new york magazine: what it’s like to isolate with your girlfriend and her other boyfriend. or, put another way, as the coronavirus forces millions of americans to practice social distancing and stay in their homes, relationships are being put to the test… the situation is even more complicated when you’re staying inside not just with your partner, but with your partner’s partner as well. to illustrate this terribly progressive lifestyle arrangement, we’re introduced to a brooklynite comedian and podcaster named billy, his girlfriend megan, and his girlfriend megan’s other boyfriend kyle. this is billy’s first polyamorous relationship, and while he doesn’t know his metamour kyle that well, he says he’s doing his best to respect his space. yes, metamour. other descriptive choices are available. quizzed on the indoor celebrations of meghan’s birthday, billy says, we didn’t get to do too much. we watched some tv shows, we smoked weed, i gave her some birthday sexual lovin’. i’m assuming there’s some kind of rota system. perhaps a pecking order. continue reading "modern love" » posted at 09:24 in anthropology, dating decisions, you can't afford my radical life | permalink | comments (53) march 17, 2020 above us, our betters speaking, as we were, of enthusiasts of crime, meet communist poet wendy trevino: when i see tweets of this nature – repeated slogan, repeated slogan, repeated slogan – i tend to think the tweeter is either adolescent or unwell. ms trevino is supposedly a grown woman. one who appears to have a complicated relationship with her father. sometimes the clichés are just too on-the-nose. when not advocating shoplifting and being titillated by visions of collapsing social norms, ms trevino, our communist poet and antifa gal, wants us to know how pleased she is by criminals escaping prison and taking hostages. what said prisoners may have done to be there in the first place, and what they may do again now that they’re at large, doesn’t seem to interest her. update, via the comments: continue reading "above us, our betters" » posted at 07:56 in anthropology, policing, politics, those poor darling shoplifters | permalink | comments (68) march 16, 2020 self service this is the nice version of what happens when the state justice system fails and private individuals must step in to fill the void. there is also a less nice version. over at samizdata, natalie solent is pondering this item of crime and policing news. or rather, non-policing news: it was no surprise to anyone who knew nicholas richards, a career criminal with 25 convictions including 18 for shoplifting, that his motives were not entirely honourable when he walked into boots. witnesses described him stealing £170-worth of gucci perfume; cctv footage recovered from the chemist’s flagship branch in piccadilly showed him putting the goods in his bag; and cameras worn by private security officers who detained him recorded him admitting the offence. so staff at boots, which loses between £10,000 and £12,000 a week to shoplifting, were upset when police officers arrived on the crime scene, decided the case was a “civil” matter and released richards, who was already on a suspended sentence for theft. boots was furious about the failure to dispense justice and decided to take part in what is believed to be the first private prosecution for shoplifting supported by a corporate victim. the case is being brought by tm eye. set up by two former metropolitan police officers, it is the parent company of my local bobby (mlb), which provides neighbourhood policing to residents, firms and shops. its 30 “bobbies,” who wear red vests and caps, provide 24-hour cover. they are mostly former police officers and soldiers. in the comments following which, a reader adds, anyone with 25 previous convictions should not be on our streets. some time ago, i suggested, not entirely flippantly, that a “three-strikes-and-we-put-you-out-to-sea-on-a-fucking-raft” policy might be quite popular. readers are welcome to use the comments below to share alternatives. posted at 07:59 in policing, politics, those poor darling shoplifters | permalink | comments (66) march 13, 2020 friday ephemera bit nippy out. || banana-related breakthrough of note. || she does this better than you do. || his knife is sharper than yours. || passionate exchanges. || script doctor recaps picard with suitable ruthlessness: “too bad the writers don’t think beyond the surface of their own ideas.” || intriguing odour detected. || disappointing soap. (h/t, perry) || upscale toasting. (h/t, elephants gerald) || restaurant scenes. || nommy nommy nom. || the thrill of sorting nails. || achievement unlocked. || 85,000 british pathé newsreels, 1910-2008. || a brief history of the url. || ice resurfacing simulator. || i did not know this. || hands up if you own one. || folded paper. || and finally, a slaughterhouse-related mishap. posted at 00:02 in ephemera | permalink | comments (108) march 10, 2020 a dilemma presents itself time for an open thread, i think, in which to share links and bicker. i’ll kick things off with the old one-two. what? posted at 14:00 in free-for-all | permalink | comments (75) march 09, 2020 she feels unclean in the pages of the observer, a new niche agony is detected: is it ever acceptable for a feminist to hire a cleaner? needless to say, it starts off quite dramatically, the day my cleaner used to visit, i would return home in the evening to the smell of dettol mixed with tania’s sweat, to a clean kitchen and bathroom and a drenching sense of guilt. gratuitous drama and drenching guilt aside, i’m not entirely sure why hiring a cleaner should obviously be more fraught than hiring, say, a gardener or roofer. and it occurs to me that if you can smell someone’s perspiration above the odour of cleaning products, said person may require some kind of medical attention. the piece, by empowered feminist author sally howard, continues in high gear, it was the same unease that greeted me when i collected my son leo from his nursery – a national chain disproportionately staffed by women of colour – or bought clothes from a mainstream clothing outlet that relies, as many do, on female garment workers in the global south. for the kind of middle-class feminist who as recreation writes for the observer, life is apparently an endless moral torture inflicted by minor, everyday events, or at least an exhausting theatre of pretending to be tortured by minor, everyday events. which of the two constitutes a more harrowing and nightmarish existence, i leave to the reader. for [my book, the home stretch], i spent time under cover with the women who clean britain’s offices and homes. i picked used tampons off bathroom carpets and scrubbed bathtub tidemarks and sauces spattered across kitchen walls; and i discovered a few things. that some women are so messy and antisocial that bloodied tampons are left for others to step on? is that a permissible feminist thought? i learned that fashionable householders’ preference for less-effective eco and homemade cleaning products doubles cleaners’ labour. no laughing at the back. continue reading "she feels unclean" » posted at 10:44 in anthropology, feminist fun times, politics, problematic cleaning, the thrill of unemployment | permalink | comments (65) march 06, 2020 friday ephemera stealth mode engaged. || egg living dangerously. || why dogs don’t rule the… oh. || sorcery with cardboard. || children’s table manners of the fifteenth century: “pyke notte thyne errys nothyr thy nostrellys.” || a brief history of the f-word. || he does this better than you do. || they do this better than you do. || incoming. || this just in. || just one kiss. || coke stash of note. || how to wash your hands. || if we all attack at once, this island is ours. || today’s words are sociology department. || ‘progressive’ incentives and their predictable outcomes. || “this is a car. and this is a trampoline.” || swimming while waterproof. || want to tell the government what you think of the bbc? || and finally, blustery scenes. posted at 00:02 in ephemera | permalink | comments (92) next » for amazon us use this link . blogroll ace adam smith institute advice goddess althouse ambush predator amir sariaslan andrew bolt andrew bostom armed and dangerous art of the title artblog augean stables ben shapiro ben sixsmith biased bbc bill whittle blackfive borderline blog for boys brain terminal brian micklethwait burning our money campus reform celia green challenging opinions charles c w cooke charles murray chicago boyz city journal climate depot college fix college insurrection coudal creative review daily ablution (archive) daniel greenfield daniel hannan dark roasted blend dave cullen den of geek denis dutton deogolwulf discover the networks discriminations dissident prof douglas murray durham in wonderland ed driscoll english russia eye blog federalist fiamengo files fire franklin einspruch frontpage gab gad saad gas gateway pundit gay patriot gene expression girl writes what greatest hits, sort of guido fawkes heather mac donald heresy corner heterodox academy iea instapundit io9 iowahawk jawa report jihad watch jonah goldberg jordan peterson ka-ching! kevin williamson la griffe du lion language log last ditch laughing squid legal insurrection libertarian alliance longrider maggie's farm malcolm pollack mark steyn martin durkin matt christiansen mediocracy memeorandum memri memri tv michelle malkin mick hartley minding the campus monday books nas national review neatorama neo new criterion open culture other mccain paula wright ping-o-matic project veritas protein wisdom quillette real peer review reason ricochet rod dreher roger kimball samizdata script doctor shorpy small dead animals spectator standpoint stephen hicks taki theodore dalrymple things tim blair tim newman tim worstall twisted sifter uncommon knowledge velvet glove, iron fist victory girls view from cullingworth watts up with that? william briggs woob zombietime zombie