1 desktop notifications are on | turn off get breaking news alerts from the washington post turn on desktop notifications? yes not now sections home the washington post logo democracy dies in darkness try 1 month for $1 username sign in my post my reading list account settings newsletters & alerts gift subscriptions contact us help desk my post my reading list account settings newsletters & alerts gift subscriptions contact us help desk david ignatius washington, d.c. columnist covering foreign affairs education: harvard college; kings college, cambridge david ignatius writes a twice-a-week foreign affairs column. ignatius has also written eight spy novels: “bloodmoney” (2011), “the increment” (2009), “body of lies ” (2007), “the sun king” (1999), “a firing offense” (1997), “the bank of fear” (1994), “siro” (1991), and “agents of innocence” (1987). body of lies was made into a 2008 film starring leonardo dicaprio and russell crowe. ignatius joined the post in 1986 as editor of its sunday outlook section. in 1990 he became foreign editor, and in 1993, assistant managing editor for business news. he began writing his column in 1998 and continued even during a three-year stint as executive editor of the international herald tribune in paris. earlier in his career, ignatius was a reporter for the wall street journal, covering at various times the steel industry, the justice department, the cia, the senate, the middle east and the state department. ignatius grew up in washington, d.c., and studied political theory at harvard college and economics at kings college, cambridge. he lives in washington with his wife and has three daughters. honors & awards: 2000 gerald loeb award for commentary 2004 edward weintal prize 2010 urbino international press award 2013 overseas press club award for foreign affairs commentary lifetime achievement award, international committee for foreign journalists legion d'honneur awarded by the french government as the post’s foreign editor, ignatius supervised the paper’s pulitzer prize-winning coverage of the iraqi invasion of kuwait connect: share confidential news tips with the post latest from david ignatius opinion who can lead a post-coronavirus america? to win, democrats must show they are smart, tough managers. mar 26, 2020 opinion powell’s success at the fed is a reminder of the importance of expertise chair jerome powell's message is that the fed’s support for u.s. business is unlimited. mar 24, 2020 opinion the coronavirus is a test of our national character as authoritarian china turns a corner toward recovery, can the u.s. and its democracy follow suit? mar 19, 2020 opinion the trump administration adds to its purge of professionals it's part of a long pattern of housecleaning that has career officials anxious. mar 18, 2020 opinion trump loyalists take command of the intelligence community the whittling of resources, to some observers, potentially leaves the nation vulnerable. mar 17, 2020 opinion as the u.s. and iran trade attacks, iraq is again a flash point u.s. commanders see this as a dangerous inflection point. iran is reeling from the coronavirus and disoriented after the targeted killing of maj. gen. qasem soleimani in january. mar 13, 2020 opinion we weren’t ready for a pandemic. we better be ready for a cyberattack. congress created a group to plan for an online crisis. america needs to listen to its recommendations. mar 12, 2020 opinion trump’s pushback against china pays off with an important win u.s. diplomats stepped up to wrest control of a small but vital u.n. organization. mar 10, 2020 opinion the ukraine conversation joe biden needs to have the candidate’s denials of wrongdoing have been accurate, but that’s not enough. mar 5, 2020 opinion how instability in the middle east could affect trump’s reelection bid netanyahu’s plan to annex the west bank could send ripples through jordan and jeopardize trump’s foreign policy. mar 3, 2020 load more washingtonpost.com © 1996-2020 the washington post help policies and standards terms of service privacy policy do not sell my info print products terms of sale digital products terms of sale submissions and discussion policy rss terms of service ad choices contact us