skip to main content donate donate subscribe 2020 elections coronavirus richard burr public housing politics environment crime and justice food media investigations photos magazine podcasts newsletters 2020 elections coronavirus richard burr public housing subscribe to our magazine donate smart, fearless journalism politics environment crime and justice food media investigations photos magazine podcasts membership ticker monika bauerlein, ceo dear reader, how are you holding up? i’ve been thinking a lot about what is happening with the mother jones community, and i’m hoping you’ll share what is happening in your life. you can do that and find out what mother jones is investigating in response to the pandemic in our new column, "greed destroyed our social immune system. it’s time to rebuild it." thanks for reading. please stay safe. in "greed destroyed our social immune system. it’s time to rebuild it," ceo monika bauerlein checks in with our community and shares how mother jones’ journalists are responding to the pandemic. david corn david corn is mother jones' washington bureau chief and an on-air analyst for msnbc. he is the co-author (with michael isikoff) of russian roulette: the inside story of putin’s war on america and the election of donald trump. he is the author of three new york times bestsellers, showdown, hubris (with isikoff), and the lies of george w. bush, as well as the e-book, 47 percent: uncovering the romney video that rocked the 2012 election. for more of his stories, click here. he's also on twitter and facebook. beyond narcissism, trump’s other personality flaws are putting americans at risk david corn donald trump signals he might sacrifice thousands of americans to restart the economy david corn we need more ventilators, but we also need people who know how to use them david corn never trumpers release ad comparing trump to the coronavirus david corn jared kushner once controlled a firm now running a coronavirus testing website david corn how the gop’s war on government paved the way for trump’s deadly incompetence david corn house democrats are pushing for new power to investigate trump. pelosi isn’t interested. dan friedman and david corn bernie’s big broken promise: he won’t release key information about his heart david corn sign up for our newsletters subscribe and we'll send mother jones straight to your inbox. email trump’s media attacks are always shameful. but in the middle of the coronavirus crisis, they’re dangerous. david corn how a russian billionaire with a criminal past became a major investor in lyft david corn sanders said it takes a revolution to beat trump. on super tuesday, most democrats disagreed. david corn trump campaign files bs lawsuit against washington post on russia scandal david corn the truth about sanders’ cold war comments is too complicated for cable news david corn why bernie sanders should welcome negative ads against him david corn trump unleashed: the trump presidency enters its most dangerous phase david corn the democratic primary is about to get wild after new hampshire david corn get our award-winning magazine save big on a full year of investigations, ideas, and insights. subscribe the great new hampshire voter freak-out david corn in new hampshire, biden supporters are looking for a reason to vote for him david corn new hampshire voters to pundits: we don’t need your stinkin’ lanes david corn impeachment and the state of the union: how trump attacks the system with disinformation david corn next mag promo independent. in print. in your mailbox. inexpensive, too! subscribe today and get a full year of mother jones for just $12. subscribe april 2020 february 2020 december 2019 podcast promo smart. fearless. audio. it's us but for your ears. listen on apple podcasts. subscribe » looking for news you can trust? subscribe to our free newsletters. email about our staff financials jobs events contact us support ways to give advertise with us store subscribe magazine subscriptions give a gift subscription email newsletters podcasts customer service copyright © 2020 mother jones and the foundation for national progress. all rights reserved. terms of service privacy policy we noticed you have an ad blocker on. can you pitch in a few bucks to help fund mother jones' investigative journalism? we're a nonprofit (so it's tax-deductible), and reader support makes up about two-thirds of our budget. we noticed you have an ad blocker on. can you pitch in a few bucks to help fund mother jones' investigative journalism? donate not now