click to skip ad closing in... skip to main content open mega menu got a tip? deadline follow us: tv film awardsline box office business hero nation international broadway video news alerts menu deadline got a tip? tip us dismiss news banner breaking news mgm in talks for andy weir sci-fi novel 'the hail mary' with ryan gosling attached read the full story read the full story coronavirus relief donald trump signs historic $2 trillion bill; hollywood reacts read the full story business quibi, peacock & hbo max prep launches as economy staggers but tv viewership soars read the full story business disney extends closures of u.s. theme parks; will pay workers through mid-april read the full story international china shutters all of its movie theaters days after reopening them you need to read read the full story coping with covid 19 crisis an industry assailed by pandemic the latest: “you cannot kill david arquette” duo on getting off the mat after sxsw cancellation; terence davies on the the delay of his passion project “benediction” and what it will take to get it going again; jimmy fallon on hosting “tonight show” from home (with his daughters’ help) and comedy in a time of crisis; craig’s owner on how he’s keeping his hollywood hot spot, its staff and customers going latest news business staples center, la convention center, aqueduct racetrack and oc fairgrounds could be used as emergency hospitals covid-19 cases are rising, with the percentages so far indicating that a large number of people will get seriously ill from the virus. as such, government officials are preparing to handle a patient overflow by using non-traditional venues as hospitals. los angeles mayor eric garcetti said during a press conference… by bruce haring 4 mins ago print 0 comments read the full story breaking business wga west donates $590,000 to the actors fund as assistance requests soar requests for assistance from the actors fund have soared during the industry's coronavirus shutdown, and the wga west has answered the call. "while the actors fund typically processes an average of 60 grants per week, in the last two weeks it has scaled up and is providing 150 grants per day," leaders of the wga west… by david robb 19 mins ago print 0 comments read the full story coronavirus crisis tv series/pilot shutdowns list of small-screen productions that have been halted feature film shutdowns list of movies that have halted or delayed production industry cancellations & postponements list of impacted events from festivals and cinemas to sports and concerts business amc networks latest to withdraw quarterly financial guidance on coronavirus-related uncertainty amc networks said friday it’s withdrawing first quarter and full year financial guidance provided earlier this year and not offering an updated fiscal outlook given the uncertainties surrouding the coronavirus pandemic. there’s been an accelerating drumbeat of corporate announcements this week – from viacomcbs to walt… by jill goldsmith 37 mins ago print 0 comments read the full story tv new pro-joe biden super pac launches with ad attacking donald trump’s coronavirus response a group of los angeles politicos have launched a pro-joe biden super pac, win the west, with a new digital ad that takes aim at president donald trump’s response to the coronavirus. hilda solis, a member of the los angeles county board of supervisors and former secretary of labor, is co-chair of the group, and its… by ted johnson 51 mins ago print 0 comments read the full story trending on deadline 1 'today' co-anchor hoda kotb breaks down in tears after… 2 china orders re-closing of all cinemas nationwide 3 seattle npr station says it will no longer carry donald… 4 josh wallwork dies: 'law & order: svu' costumer had… 5 joe biden on jimmy kimmel: donald trump "doesn't have the… 6 'a million little things' season 2 finale: creator dj nash… 7 'killing eve': amc networks moves up third season premiere… 8 'messiah' canceled by netflix after one season 9 disney extends closures for disneyland, walt disney world… 10 'family guy' characters stewie & brian make a podcast… business dare to stream: quibi, peacock & hbo max ready launches as economy staggers but tv viewership skyrockets as americans shelter in place with many spending most or all of each day at home, three new streaming services are prepping for launch: quibi, peacock and hbo max. they are hitting the market at a stomach-churningly weird time for the world and for the companies – and investors – that own them. as it turns out… by jill goldsmith, nellie andreeva, dominic patten 53 mins ago print 0 comments read the full story film ryan reynolds in talks to star in & produce ‘dragon’s lair’ film adaptation for netflix netflix is adapting the popular 80s video game, dragon’s lair, into a live-action feature with ryan reynolds in talks to produce and star. it chapter two producer roy lee will produce under his vertigo entertainment label along with trevor engelson of underground, don bluth, gary goldman, and jon pomeroy. scary stories… by amanda n'duka 1 hour ago print 1 comments read the full story business rep. adam schiff: coronavirus relief bill “will hopefully help entertainment industry workers get through some of the hardships to come” rep. adam schiff (d-ca) said that the $2 trillion coronavirus relief legislation, signed by president donald trump into law on friday, “will hopefully help entertainment industry workers get through some of the hardships to come.” “i think we were very fortunate to get this language in the bill that does cover most of… by ted johnson 1 hour ago print 0 comments read the full story what we're watching view all watch film reviews: jessie eisenberg in ‘vivarium’ & ‘resistance’ watch tv trailer: quibi’s ‘chrissy’s court’ with judge chrissy teigen watch film trailer: netflix’s immigrant drama ‘tigertail’ from alan yang watch film review: filmrise documentary ‘the dog doc’ business ‘power’ & ‘outlander’ push starz to global gains as covid-19 keeps everyone home as weeks look to turn into months of lockdown around the world due to the coronavirus pandemic, starz is seeing a surge of sign-ups to its digital platforms and more as viewers seek more power and outlander. data reveals a 45% jump in audience on the starz app in the march 14-23 period compared to the 10 days before… by dominic patten 1 hour ago print 0 comments read the full story tv ‘jimmy kimmel live!’ to remain at 12:05 am in first week back on television amid covid-9 pandemic when jimmy kimmel live! returns to television on monday (march 30) with remotely produced episodes, abc’s late-night show will not reclaim its regular 11:35 time slot but instead will continue to air at 12:05 am at least through next week. jimmy kimmel live! swapped slots with abc news's nightline, which normally… by nellie andreeva 1 hour ago print 0 comments read the full story tv fox business parts ways with trish regan; she had made controversial coronavirus “impeachment scam” comments fox business is parting ways with one of its primetime hosts, trish regan, after putting her show on hiatus as the coronavirus crisis escalated. "fox business has parted ways with trish regan. we thank her for her contributions to the network over the years and wish her continued success in her future endeavors,” the… by ted johnson 2 hours ago print 4 comments read the full story awardsline view all sxsw film festival unveils award winners for canceled 2020 edition berlin film festival winners: mohammad rasoulof’s ‘there is no evil’ takes golden bear césar awards: polanski best director, ‘les miserables’ top film amid controversy naacp image awards winners: lizzo, ‘just mercy’, ‘black-ish’, ‘when they see us’, more business viacomcbs, following disney, comcast, announces $2.5 billion debt sale viacomcbs is the latest media conglom to tap the debt market, announcing plans to raise $2.5 billion by selling notes. disney raised $6 billion last week and comcast $4 billion earlier this week as companies in – relatively – strong positions look to build up a cash cushion against the uncertain economics of a… by jill goldsmith 2 hours ago print 0 comments read the full story business ‘grimm’ co-creator david greenwalt signs with apa; innovative inks ‘sacred lies’ actress jordan alexander apa has added grimm co-creator david greenwalt to its client roster along with roni greenwalt and their swan song production banner. david was also the co-showrunner on the hit nbc series, which ran for six seasons. prior to that, david served as executive producer on buffy the vampire slayer before creating and exec… by amanda n'duka 2 hours ago print 0 comments read the full story more stories you said it oh you mean a disease they know nothing about came back? get outta here. commented by tb4000 china orders re-closing of all cinemas nationwide deadline signup for breaking news alerts & newsletters your email sign up from the magazine hot spots new mexico deadline's inaugural location-filming conference kicks off march 7 read parasite bong joon ho and song kang ho on the movie that defied the oscar odds read the maverick quentin tarantino reflects on the riotous ride of once upon a time... in hollywood and ponders the future of cinema read contenders new york 2019 read blessed jonathan pryce and anthony hopkins wrestle with divine inspiration in the two popes read go to tab 1go to tab 2go to tab 3go to tab 4go to tab 5 marketplace latest by category film ryan reynolds in talks to star in & produce ‘dragon’s lair’ film adaptation for netflix viacomcbs, following disney, comcast, announces $2.5 billion debt sale from ‘lawrence of arabia’ and ‘to kill a mockingbird’ to the debut of james bond, was 1962 the greatest movie year ever? a new book says yes tv amc networks latest to withdraw quarterly financial guidance on coronavirus-related uncertainty new pro-joe biden super pac launches with ad attacking donald trump’s coronavirus response dare to stream: quibi, peacock & hbo max ready launches as economy staggers but tv viewership skyrockets box office ‘impractical jokers: the movie’ joins pack of pics heading early to homes coronavirus: list of canceled or postponed hollywood & media events focus features’ sundance winner ‘never rarely sometimes always’ to hit homes early business staples center, la convention center, aqueduct racetrack and oc fairgrounds could be used as emergency hospitals wga west donates $590,000 to the actors fund as assistance requests soar amc networks latest to withdraw quarterly financial guidance on coronavirus-related uncertainty featured voices view all mike fleming jr co-editor-in-chief, film mgm in exclusive talks for hot andy weir sci-fi novel ‘project hail mary,’ ryan gosling attached to star & produce nellie andreeva co-editor-in-chief, tv dare to stream: quibi, peacock & hbo max ready launches as economy staggers but tv viewership skyrockets pete hammond awards columnist/chief film critic from ‘lawrence of arabia’ and ‘to kill a mockingbird’ to the debut of james bond, was 1962 the greatest movie year ever? a new book says yes peter bart editor-at-large peter bart: woody allen’s book ‘apropos of nothing’ is brilliant and baffling newswire deadline about us advertise legal terms of use privacy policy adchoices california privacy rights do not sell my personal information eu privacy preferences sitemap tv film awardsline box office business international connect with us get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks have a tip? we want to hear from you! send us a tip using our annonymous form. send us a tip stay in the know sign up for our breaking news alerts your email sign up copyright © 2020 penske business media, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip our sites variety deadline rolling stone wwd hollywoodlife gold derby spy robb report footwear news bgr indiewire sourcing journal tvline fairchild media she knows our sites variety deadline rolling stone wwd hollywoodlife gold derby spy robb report footwear news bgr indiewire sourcing journal tvline fairchild media she knows close the menu film expand the sub-menu acquisitions animation castings documentary executives festivals tv expand the sub-menu primetime pilot panic cancellations castings ratings renewals late-night awardsline expand the sub-menu the contenders emmys oscars tonys guilds deadline video series box office expand the sub-menu exhibition marketing release dates international b.o. specialty b.o. broadway b.o. business expand the sub-menu legal politics labor agencies corporate affairs earnings executives hero nation expand the sub-menu animation casting comics graphic novels video games video expand the sub-menu trailers reviews the actor's side behind the lens next generation tv production value more expand the sub-menu international broadway obituaries commentary books crime media podcasts social media sports follow us alerts & newsletters sign up advertise about us give us feedback leave us a tip © 2020 penske media corporation ad