the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop news deal alert: the federal government is cutting you a $1,200 stimulus check that you can, and should, spend exclusively on 75 copies of ‘stardew valley’ you may also like ogn ogn investigates: we exposed an orphan to nothing but violent games for the first 12 years of his life and while it didn’t make hi... wednesday 10:41am ogn miss e3? check out our recreation with a bunch of sweating, overheated gamers we locked in our janitorial closet today 12:44pm ogn ‘animal crossing: new horizons’ developers confirm no one can hurt you here, no one can make you scared 3/20/20 9:03am more from g/o media read on nation close to getting videoconferencing software to work read on china will lift lockdown on wuhan april 8th read on british royal family orders citizens to leave u.k. until prince charles recovers read on 10 photos of plus-size models we deserve a pat on the back for running subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe wednesday 4:28pm • see more:onion gamers network onion gamers networkstardew valleyvideo gamesnewsvol 56 issue 12 things are finally looking up for gamers searching for the deal of a lifetime! after weeks of panic and uncertainty, onion gamers network is now confirming that the federal government reached a decision early wednesday morning to cut you a stimulus check for $1,200 that you can—and should—spend exclusively on 75 copies of stardew valley. talk about an incredible deal! getting a check from the u.s. treasury and using it all on these six-dozen-plus copies of the classic farming simulator is the perfect way for video game fans to weather out these stressful times, which is why we’re recommending you do exactly that, and only that, with your money. advertisement don’t think about this. just do it. here’s how it works! in one month, the stimulus of $1,200 big ones will start arriving at the houses of gamers across the country. from there, you’re just a quick trip to steam and 75 short clicks from taking advantage of this opportunity. do this immediately, before you have second thoughts. at $14.99 per copy, this is a deal that you can’t afford to wait on! of course, some might encourage you not to spend the check all in one place. they might suggest that you should think through other options before splurging on this many digital copies of a game released in 2016. that’s totally understandable, and that’s why we would suggest you diversify your purchase by buying half of these copies in a physical form. sure, you’ll spend a bit more on shipping, but the second you have 20 or 30 stardew valley game cases sprawled out on your floor, you’ll realize you made the right decision. so get ready to enjoy some sincerely epic savings, readers. you’re about to spend your stimulus check the only way a true gamer should! advertisement share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion study finds female mammals live longer than males haunting photographs capture empty spaces around the country amid shelter-in-place orders kawhi leonard misses second consecutive family game night citing load management department of interior announces birds will continue going about regular bird activities during pandemic share tweet