skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about here’s how to get cheap disney+ for just £1.08 a month after cashback by naomi willis | last updated 13th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links disney+ is launching on 24 march – but don’t just sign up! you can get cheap disney+ for just £1.08 per month using this quidco cashback deal. disney+ is launching in the uk on 24 march 2020. usually costing £59.99 if you sign up for a year there’s a way to get it much cheaper!… more half price easter egg deals at tesco by naomi willis | last updated 3rd march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links half price easter eggs deals are running at tesco, saving you 50% on the price of medium easter eggs for one week only. offer running online and in store. easter is coming! there is always a good deal to be had on easter eggs, especially if you buy them early. if you wait until the… more wilko half price pick and mix (february 2020) by ricky willis | last updated 14th february 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links wilko pick and mix is on sale at half price in their latest offer meaning you (or your kid) can get a cup full of sweets for just £1. pick and mix always makes me think back to the days of woolies. but i never got the treat very often as you had to fill… more get two free odeon cinema tickets after cashback by naomi willis | last updated 14th february 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links use this awesome offer to get two odeon cinema tickets for free after cashback from quidco and groupon – just don’t forget the popcorn! looking for something to do over half term? want a date night, but don’t want to spend too much money? having fun and not spending a penny is possible with this… more tesco pizza meal deal on sale for just £10 (and it looks just like dominos) by naomi willis | last updated 13th february 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links the tesco pizza meal deal is just £10 for a huge bundle of food, saving £7.50, and looks very similar to a domino’s take out! perfect for a fakeaway treat. tesco pizza meal deal in the deal, you’re able to choose two pizzas, two sides and a dip stacker (3 dips) all for £10. priced… more iceland pancake day deal – £5 bundle inc the pan by naomi willis | last updated 6th february 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links help kick off pancake day with this deal from iceland. get everything you need to make pancakes this shrove tuesday for just £5 – as well as the pan! when is pancake day 2020? pancake day is on tuesday, 25 february this year. it’s also known as shrove tuesday. it changes each year, depending on… more 1 2 3 … 26 next page » contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about