menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login death of a friendship home→forums→tough times→death of a friendship new reply this topic contains 5 replies, has 2 voices, and was last updated by anita 3 days, 21 hours ago. viewing 6 posts - 1 through 6 (of 6 total) author posts march 23, 2020 at 10:48 am #344770 kat participant hi everyone, back again with some sad news. in case you’ve never read my posts before, i am a 23 year old asian female struggling to balance my life with the approval of my parents and making everyone around me happy. updates from my life… since august of 2019, i graduated from university with a degree in english. ever since then, i was able to obtain an internship at a well-known nonprofit company. after that i looked for jobs religiously but none were hiring someone like me, so i decided to go full force into working at restaurants. i worked two jobs until recently, getting laid off due to covid-19. recently, my best friend decided to cut me off and no longer be in contact with me. i can’t say this isn’t something i expected sooner or later since she did the same thing in 2015, when i was as she put it “making the same bad choices and hurting myself” which had nothing to do with her. when she left the first time, i don’t think i fully recovered from the pain it caused me. and in 2016, when she decided she wanted to be in my life again, it was hard to trust her. it was hard to believe that she would stay and not leave again. others would tell me that the choices i made had nothing to do with her and she left because somehow you were affecting her with your life choices. either way, i eventually made peace with it. i stopped hoping she’d come back. but she did… and that was a confusing time. fast forward to now 2020, after a year of much bad luck, i’m faced with this again. i have been through a lot within 2019 up until now. i have flipped and totaled my car, i have had to hire a lawyer for court and handle a reckless charge. i have had to struggle in the job market. i have been working myself to the ground with over 54 hours a week. leaving no time for myself… however i still try to make time for my friends. somewhere between all that time, i think i lost myself. i think i shut down mentally and the light is on but nobody’s home. so the issue has been that i have been fighting with myself to figure out why i’m like this. it’s like i’ve given up on myself. i no longer enjoy anything… and i’m always on my phone. i don’t really try to keep my friendships, i don’t talk or text them as often as i should be. that leaves to everyone getting mad and thinking i’m a bad friend. i have trouble managing my time as it is, so i don’t really try to make plans with anyone. it’s always out of fear that i’m going to disappoint them. often the only time i’ll have is my only day off or some time after work. both days of which i’m exhausted still, trying to recover from a long week of working. my body hates me for what i put it through. i have never had so much physical pain in my life just working before. the truth is i’m not present. i’m not there. i haven’t been. i’ve checked out. and everyone around me is angry with me. they are wondering why i can’t be the person i used to be for them. why can’t i focus? why can’t i give them my full attention? why can’t i be on time? honestly, i don’t know what’s become of me. the last time we spoke, we made plans to meet. the same day i found out i was getting laid off. i was scrambling to find solutions. file for unemployment, and then go grab any supplies i needed. because it looked like things were getting pretty serious. in the midst of all this, i forgot to update her and tell her everything going on and she had waited for me for a long time since i was late… so it was the last straw for her. she cancelled our plans that night and cut ties with me. i can’t say i blame her for everything that’s happened. although it does suck. i wasn’t there mentally, physically, or emotionally for her. i was just going through too many things. my own flaws i’ll admit are my lack of time management, and i struggle a lot with depression and anxiety. we had been friends for over ten years now. and now i’m alone. serves me right. to my best friend, i’m sorry for letting you down. after over 15 years of friendship, you would think we would understand each other. you did what i was afraid you would do in the end, and maybe it’s all my fault this time. i neglected you and i wasn’t there. march 23, 2020 at 12:40 pm #344788 anita participant dear kat: i wish the pandemic was not our global reality, oh how i wish the pandemic will disappear today, and restaurants will open and servers like you will be back to work! before i respond further to your current post, i am wondering (having read and responded to your previous threads): are you living with you currently living with your parents? anita march 23, 2020 at 2:07 pm #344810 kat participant hi anita, i am currently still living with my parents. march 23, 2020 at 2:15 pm #344814 anita participant dear kat: i was hoping you live away from them but i figure this is not the time for you to look for a separate place for yourself, now that you are unemployed.. how is your relationships with your parents at this point, being that you must be spending more time with them now, during the pandemic, than you did before? anita march 23, 2020 at 3:48 pm #344846 kat participant yes it’s been rough. i’ve been trying to move out but i have had a series of setbacks. i suppose right now is the best time to work on my relationship with my parents. however, everyone is a bit set in their ways. hopefully things can improve. march 23, 2020 at 4:21 pm #344850 anita participant dear kat often when relationships are set a certain way, for a long, long time, it is difficult or impossible to change them. both parties of the relationships must be motivated to change the relationship. sometimes adjusting to an existing bad relationship in a way that is less disturbing is the best one can do. i will be away from the computer for a while, maybe for as long as 14 hours from now. if you want, you can share with me about the existing relationships in your home, and maybe i will have some useful suggestions for you. anita author posts viewing 6 posts - 1 through 6 (of 6 total) you must be logged in to reply to this topic. please log in or register. disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top