home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox food and drink product reviews prevnext december 2018 degustabox review leyla preston mon 11th feb 2019 1shares share tweet pin another great month of delicious edible goodies from degustabox, which features the following brands this month: nature’s store – salted caramel popcorn bar maggi fusion noodle pots – chow mein / spiced curry /sweet chilli delverde pasta – festonati / spaghetti / penne zita rigate nestle – shredded wheat breakfast on the go slush puppie – sour cherry – product of the month green & black’s – blueberry velvet fruit and orange velvet fruit jack daniel’s lynchburg lemonade funkin cocktails – funkin passion fruit martini shaker sleep well chocolate milk here is the link to the full background of the degustabox and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degustabox-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degustabox/ but, for a quick recap, degustabox is an online retail service that provides a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. but lucky customers like yourself will receive a £7.99 discount when signing up for your first degustabox by inserting discount code bldeg15 at the checkout. products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degustabox here: http://bit.ly/dbhomepage. you can stay updated via degustabox’s social networks too: facebook – http://bit.ly/dbukfacebook twitter – http://bit.ly/dbuktwitter instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers can receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degustabox has recently introduced db discoveries to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: what’s in december 2018’s degustabox? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degustabox below: products nature’s store – salted caramel popcorn bar – £0.89 maggi fusian – noodle pots / chow mein / spiced curry / sweet chilli – £1.15 delverde pasta – festonati / spaghetti / penne zita / rigate – £1.99 nestle shredded wheat breakfast on the go – £1.99 slush puppie – sour cherry – £1.29 green & black’s – blueberry velvet fruit & orange velvet fruit – £3.29 jack daniel’s lynchburg lemonade – £1.80 funkin cocktails funkin passion fruit martini shaker – £4.00 sleep well chocolate milk what did i like most about december 2018’s degustabox? rating: reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (8 years old) aidan (6 years old) what’s in december 2018’s degustabox? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degustabox below: products nature’s store – salted caramel popcorn bar – £0.89 “new popcorn bars from nature’s store are a super healthy, free from a way to snack. they combine popcorn, seeds, dates and gluten-free oats with no added sugar belgian chocolate. with four high fibre, nutrient-rich seeds and at less than 150 calories per bar, they’re the perfect healthy and delicious snack. soon available in major supermarkets.” our opinion – this popcorn bar was super delicious – it didn’t taste too sweet, and i loved how dense and rich the salty caramel combined with the popcorn, chocolate and seeds were together. it’s a really filling bar and a great snack to enjoy on the go. 4.5/5 maggi fusian – noodle pots / chow mein / spiced curry / sweet chilli – £1.15 “take the taste of asia with you wherever you go with new maggi fusian noodle pots! each pot includes premium noodles and sachets of spices and veggies so you can enjoy mouth-watering asian flavoured noodles – ready in just four minutes!” our opinion – these pot noodles are great when you can’t be bothered to cook lunch, or you haven’t got time to make dinner. the spiced curry is quite spicy and rich, the sweet chilli has definitely got a kick to it, but the chow mein was my favourite. the flavours are strong, and the little sachets really enhance the flavour. 3.5/5 delverde pasta – festonati / spaghetti / penne zita / rigate – £1.99 “delverde pasta is made with the best durum wheat and the water from a very special place: the verde river, which flows through the majella national park, in the abruzzo region of italy. delverde is made using traditional bronze dies and is slowly dried to preserve its wonderful flavour.” our opinion – we tried the spaghetti version, and the noodles were thicker and denser than the normal spaghetti we buy. they took longer to cook, but i did enjoy the change in texture in my one-pot spaghetti! 4/5 nestle shredded wheat breakfast on the go – £1.99 “made with just one natural ingredient – 100% whole grain wheat, which is crafted into deliciously crispy biscuits for a mouth-wateringly good breakfast cereal for the whole family… our wholegrain cereal is sown, grown and ripened in britain, using a recipe unchanged since 1893.” our opinion – this is a great idea for people who are rushing to work and don’t have time for breakfast, or for busy kids who got up too late for school and have five minutes to eat! the cereal is delicious, and i would definitely repurchase it. 4/5 slush puppie – sour cherry – £1.29 “the iconic slush puppie is now available in convenient, resealable pouches. the brand new range contains the original slush puppie taste but with no added sugar. available in sour cherry, blue raspberry and strawberry, each pouch contains just 95 calories. simply freeze, squeeze & drink.” our opinion – i loved the taste of this sour cherry slush puppie, but it was tough to squeeze after it froze! i had to let it melt for a bit, but the taste was great! 3.5/5 green & black’s – blueberry velvet fruit & orange velvet fruit – £3.29 “indulgent fruit centres, delicately coated in rich, smooth dark chocolate. discover a new indulgent chocolate experience.” our opinion – i absolutely love green & black’s chocolate, i find them so indulgent, and high quality and these two gorgeous velvet fruit alternatives did not disappoint! my favourite was the blueberry, and they were so moreish that i was gutted when i’d finished them too quickly. 5/5 jack daniel’s lynchburg lemonade – £1.80 “jack daniel’s lynchburg lemonade combines the distinctive character of our fine tennessee whiskey, a dash of triple sec and a perfect measure of zesty lemonade for an expertly crafted drink from our home to yours.” our opinion – i didn’t try these myself, but my husband said they had a bit of a zing to them. he said he probably wouldn’t repurchase the lemonade flavour, but he does like the idea of flavoured whiskies – 3.5/5 funkin cocktails funkin passion fruit martini shaker – £4.00 “funkin cocktails exist to shake up the ordinary, making great tasting cocktails available to all. simply add spirit and ice and make it shake to create four delicious cocktails. available in a range of classic flavours including mojito, pina colada and espresso martini.” our opinion – these funkin cocktails are an interesting concept, you just add ice and spirit and you have yourself a nice cocktail! we changed it up a bit and tried this martini with gin, which wasn’t as great as naturally the vodka, and it made for a great new year’s treats. it’s an interesting idea and one i can see using during get-togethers and parties 4.5/5 sleep well chocolate milk “sleep well is the new, natural milk drink that helps you relax and get a better night’s sleep. a gorgeous tasting, long life drink for the whole family made with whole jersey milk, honey and valerian – the herb that’s been helping people relax and sleep for 2,000 years.” our opinion– this sleep well chocolate milk drink was very thick and creamy, with a lovely sweet taste. i’m not sure i would be offering this chocolate milk to the kids at bedtime as i can’t see how the sugar will help them sleep. however, it’s a lovely drink to have alongside snacktime and when their friends come around to their house. 3.5/5 what did i like most about december 2018’s degustabox? easily the green & black’s chocolates were my favourite – i didn’t feel so guilty munching them all in one sitting because they had fruit in them! i will definitely be buying more… rating: 4 out of 5 – a great selection of products and some fun treats for the christmas/new year period. i’d love to see more plant-based items and more green & black’s, please! leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:degustaboxfood and drinkfood delivery related posts degustabox review plus competition/givea... november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... oxo good grips 3-piece berries bowl ... october 2017 degustabox review april 2014 – degustabox product re... christmas spiced apple and walnut chutne... june 2014 – degustabox product rev... august 2014 – degustabox product r... july 2016 – degustabox review june 2017 bbq degustabox review may 2014 – degustabox product revi... august 2017 degustabox review chillfactor squeeze cup slushy maker ... april 2017 degustabox review february 2015 – degustabox product... march 2019 degusta box review july summer 2017 degustabox review december 2017 degustabox review september 2014 – degustabox produc... march 2015 – degustabox product re... january 2016 – degustabox product ... november 2017 degustabox review january 2018 degustabox review may 2019 brunch and afternoon tea degust... march 2016 – degustabox product re... bengal chicken curry may 2016 – degustabox food box – product... may 2018 degustabox ‘world cup’ product ... june 2019 summer and bbq degusta box rev... how to make the most of the blackberry s... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok