petite anglaise december 30, 2005 grown up filed under: navel gazing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 12:22 pm i am thirty three years old, and a mother. the lady in the local boulangerie stopped calling me “mademoiselle” quite some time ago. why is it then that most of the time i feel like i’m only pretending to be a grown up? putting on a front. going through the motions of what seems to be expected of someone my age, unsure whether my heart is really in what i’m doing. from the vantage point of childhood, grown ups seemed so different, so complete, so together. the phrase “one day, when you are grown up…” held such tantalising promise. but here i am, with three decades already behind me, and i’m not quite sure i belong here. underneath the play acting, there is a girl who often wonders why adulthood doesn’t feel like she thought it would. i ceased to grow upwards at the ripe old age of eleven, when i watched, in helpless despair, as the other girls in my class at school overtook me. that same year, i became a woman in the childbearing (as a theoretical possibility) sense, prompting my mother’s gift of a rather chaste paperback about love and sex, with a cover photograph of a young man (german porn star moustache) and woman (flicked back abba fringe) perpetually trapped in the late seventies, unaware that oral sex existed. my first physical relationship, at seventeen, was a landmark, but i wouldn’t describe it as a coming of age. i look back fondly at the young girl i was at the time, enthusiastic about the new pastime i had discovered, and fiercely possessive of my boyfriend in the manner of a small child with an exciting new toy. i took control of my life and finances when i left home for university, aged nineteen, but i wasn’t yet a fully formed person. more a mass of contradictions: obsessed with grades, ferociously competitive, but also a thrill seeker who spared little thought for her own personal safety. it was a time for exploration, for defining my own boundaries away from the constraints of the parental home. somewhere in my twenties, i think i started to grow into my own personality. there was the slow, painful realisation of the fact that being top of the class at school does not automatically equip a person for a brilliant future, if that person has no particular ambition in life. dreams were diluted with a dose of pragmatism; sacrifices were made in order to remain in the country i decided to call my home. in my first “proper” job, once the elation at finally having money had abated, and i tired of spending every single saturday afternoon on a spending spree, “adult” concerns started to insinuate themselves into my brain. peers were buying flats and houses. suddenly, amassing savings and acquiring property became a major obsession. panic: was i missing the boat? saturdays were a whirlwind of estate agent’s, apartment visits and mounting frustration. friends began to marry. i wondered whether that was something i wanted, or felt i should want. practical reasons aside, i found myself incapable of answering this question. somewhere along the line, i seemed to have mislaid my romantic, girlish fantasy involving a princess dress, possibly because circumstances dictated that i would be footing the bill. mr frog and i had moved in together out of sheer pragmatism, not as a result of some conscious decision to take things to another, more serious level. we dithered, disagreed, and never made it as far as marriage, but the decision to try for a baby was a conscious one, not taken lightly, even though we could not help, once more, but be influenced by our circle of friends, many of whom were embarking on the same adventure at that time. i suppose i thought that as an adult i would feel more certainty. know, without a shadow of a doubt, that i wanted certain things out of life. not just allow myself to be swept along like driftwood, falling into step with everyone else, mixing my metaphors, unsure of my destination. after all the changes that 2005 wrought on my life (and tadpole’s, and mr frog’s), i have clearer plans for the future than ever before. i dream of moving to the country with my lover, renovating a house, learning to drive again. the possibility of having another child. i’m almost certain that these are the things my heart desires. but sometimes i am still haunted by the feeling that i am just a child pretending to be a grown up, yearning to play in a wendy house, with new toys, a new doll. cooking lunch for my lover on boxing day, i couldn’t chase away a mental image of my daughter playing with her toy cooker, with its (pink) plastic pans. watching myself at play, pretending to cook dinner like a grown up; like my own mother. does being a grown up just mean playing an extended game of mummies and daddies, with bigger toys, and real genitalia? comments (56) december 24, 2005 a christmas carol filed under: tadpole rearing, tadpole sings — petiteanglaiseparis @ 8:24 pm a tadpole is for life, not just for christmas. https://petiteanglaise.files.wordpress.com/2005/12/bd0ea453-72cf-b967-68cf-f3cb70a12668.mp3 comments (35) december 22, 2005 cracker filed under: working girl — petiteanglaiseparis @ 1:05 pm as we left the office to take the métro to the marais location of our annual office christmas lunch, the bombshell was dropped that some, if not all, staff would be expected to return to the office afterwards. yours truly numbered among the unfortunate few, as the boss had some work he needed to finish off and made it clear that my services would be required. inwardly fuming, i resolved to ensure that sufficient alcohol was consumed to render my presence entirely futile. it being lunchtime, the quantities required need not be vast. first up, a champagne apéro had been laid on, to encourage us to mingle with the guests from our london office. the serveur on duty filled our glasses and then busied himself cruising around the vaulted rooms of the wine cellar where the festivities were being held, bearing a tray of appetisers. my glass soon empty, i waited five minutes before discreetly catching his eye and enquiring whether the remaining bottles of champagne in the cooler were “for decorative purposes only”. my comment was greeted with a raised eyebrow, but did ultimately have the desired effect: corks were duly popped, and for the duration of the apéro i was gratified to see that my glass was filled twice as often as everyone else’s. swaying slightly, i was well on the way to achieving my goal, and we hadn’t yet moved to take our seats at the christmas cracker strewn tables. in accordance with long standing company tradition, the senior partner’s wife provides luxury crackers each year for our christmas “do”. this year’s vintage looked particularly elegant, tied with irridescent ribbons, and, upon closer inspection, with promisingly weighty contents. unfortunately, throughout our meal of cream of chestnut soup with a garnish of sot-l’y-laisse (which i’m reliably informed is the part of a chicken known as the “oyster”, the best bit, hence you would be a fool to leave it) and duck leg stuffed with cèpe mushrooms, the waiters served only one glass of wine with each course, taking the bottle away with them each time. after an auspicious start, i was now beginning to feel worryingly sober. suddenly there was a volley of popping noises from the neighbouring table, headed up by my boss, as crackers were pulled. a shocked silence instantly fell over the rest of the room, and i put my hand to my mouth in horror. it is an unwritten rule in our office that crackers may not be pulled until the senior partner and his wife have given us all the cue, by pulling theirs. my boss, not a great fan of tradition, had just committed an unforgiveable faux pas, probably on purpose. i swivelled around in my chair to monitor the reaction of the senior partner, whose face was, predictably, stormy. not a word of rebuke was uttered, but the tension in the air was palpable. in an attempt to diffuse the frosty atmosphere, our it technician went to put on the party cd which he had created, made up of tracks requested by various members of staff. but even with bruce hornsby and the range coming to our rescue, it was touch and go as to whether our good spirits could be restored. and one had to wonder whether the french secretary who chose frankie goes to hollywood’s “relax” was aware that the lyrics constitute a hymn to fellatio? at 5pm, feeling replete, sleepy and just a little tipsy, i staggered back to the office, while my colleagues headed for a local bar. naturally, i was called upon to do no work whatsoever. comments (21) december 20, 2005 definitely not ‘french bashing’ filed under: miam, misc — petiteanglaiseparis @ 3:30 pm last night, preparing my third batch of mince pies this month for yet another gathering involving mulled wine (mulled by someone else this time, thankfully, as i found my own attempt at the weekend was a little too dominated by the pungent taste of cloves), i had an out of body experience. from my vantage point on the kitchen ceiling, i looked down in some consternation at the spectacle of a blonde thirtysomething year old (whose dark roots could bear a little retouche, incidentally, as seen from this particular angle) gently tapping icing sugar through a sieve with a teaspoon, onto a mince pie which was partially covered with a cardboard cut out of a star, with a smaller star inside it. the results (see photo) were undeniably very fetching, but i had to wonder whether this lady shouldn’t be devoting her energies to some other, more rewarding activity than drawing stars on pieces of card and cutting around them with nail scissors. the domestic goddess thing (if one can qualify for goddesshood when the pastry is bought ready rolled, the mincemeat out of a jar, and one is not wearing an apron) may have gone just a little too far. as i snapped back into my body again, with an elastic band like twang, i hastily grabbed a beer from the fridge and wiped my shaking, floury hands on my jeans, in an attempt to sully the tableau of myself as pastry goddess. i did however keep the cardboard cut out. it might be needed again on christmas day. you never know. ***** later still, i reluctantly prepared to do some ironing. at the best of times, this is a task which tends to be deferred until not one pair of work trousers remains and it absolutely cannot be avoided. on this occasion, to add insult to injury, the (mostly black) garments which awaited their turn had accidentally been washed with a pink jumper of tadpole’s (with a delightful cat motif, courtesy of belle maman), and were all, without exception, covered in a fine dusting of pink fluffy lint. this was a job for the “sticky toilet roll on a stick” device, if ever there was one. i have no idea what this contraption is known as, either in french or in english, and, in case you were planning to take it upon yourself to enlighten me, i would prefer not to know, as there are some things in life that should remain a mystery. but the sad fact of the matter is that it was only yesterday that it came to me in a sudden and unexpected flash of enlightenment that there are actually several layers of sticky stuff on the (loo)roll. who knew? there was me thinking that the “sticky toilet roll on a stick” was the most wasteful invention in the western world, because after cleaning the lint off a single t-shirt it had to be consigned to the bin and a new one (or a toilet roll refill) purchased. how misguided was i? how could i have been blind to the existence of the several layers of untouched, virginal, supremely adhesive roll which lie beneath? so, in case any other poor souls are labouring under the illusion that sticky toilet rolls on a stick are single use products, i decided to share my (latest) epiphany with the internet. please tell me i was not alone in thinking this? comments (57) older posts » search for: about books press fbk potted petite prologue burned null and void part time mummy baggage singing in tongues eleven days later semi-detached suspendered sunday archives january 2011 november 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 august 2004 july 2004 categories adoption book stuff city of light french touch good time girl knocked up knot tying miam mills & boon misc missing blighty navel gazing on the road parting ways single life tadpole rearing tadpole says tadpole sings uncategorized working girl stats 638 posts 27,981 comments © catherine sanderson 2004-2009 blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel