eat better get fit manage weight healthy living myplate menu more eat better get fit manage weight healthy living myplate stronger women recipes bmi calculator category directory topics a-z fitness workouts chest exercises decline push-ups vs. regular push-ups by andrea boldt about the author andrea boldt andrea boldt has been in the fitness industry for more than 20 years. a personal trainer, run coach, group fitness instructor and master yoga teacher, she also holds certifications in holistic and fitness nutrition. view work if you're going to do just one exercise ever, the push-up should be it. it teaches your muscles to work in coordination, strengthens your upper body and core and is fuss-free enough to do just about anywhere. a regular push-up may get boring over time, however, so add in variations. the push-up is a staple in any workout routine. credit: m-imagephotography/istock/getty images one variation that changes up how the push-up affects your upper body muscles is the decline push-up. you elevate your legs on a surface that's usually 12 to 20 inches off the floor and place your hands on the floor, by your armpits and slightly wider than shoulder-distance apart. from this angle, you then perform a classic push-up movement by bending and extending your elbows. a decline variation targets your upper chest and fronts of shoulders more aggressively than a regular push-up performed on level ground. perform it in addition to a regular push-up -- as well as with other chest exercises -- to get the most well-rounded chest development. read more: what are the benefits of push-ups? steps, a workout bench or riser, create a decline. credit: milenko bokan/istock/getty images where your chest develops the pectoralis major is a fan-like muscle that makes up the chest wall. the upper portion of this muscle is known as the clavicular region and the middle-to-lower portion is the sternal region. being angled down in a decline puts more weight and emphasis on the clavicular head of the chest. a regular push-up emphasizes the sternal portion of the pectoralis major primarily. the clavicular region is still activated, but not as intensely as it is in the decline variation. the more dramatic the angle, the greater the activation of the upper chest region. but, if you elevate too high, so that you're close to or in a handstand position, the shoulders do the primary work as you push up and down; the chest only assists. shoulder activation in addition to increasing activation of the upper chest, decline push-ups also force the fronts of your shoulders -- known as the anterior deltoids -- to work more intensely than they will in a regular push-up. this makes decline push-ups an effective shoulder exercise. form considerations both a regular push-up and a decline push-up call for a rigid torso, which is achieved by strongly bracing your abs. if your hips sag or hike upward, you lose a big benefit of both types of push-ups -- serious activation of your core. who's it for? a person just starting out exercising should master the regular push-up before attempting a decline push-up. with a regular push-up, you can easily modify the move, so that you don't break form, such as by putting your knees down or pushing up against a wall or incline. a decline push-up doesn't come with such modification -- if you put your knees down, you've lost the angle. complementary exercises for an evenly developed chest, include the regular push-up and decline push-up in your workouts. other exercises that the american council on exercise found of most benefit for chest development include: bench presses bent-forward cable crossovers pec deck machine read more: 10 push-up variations for a strong body references exrx.net: push-up exrx.net: decline push-up exrx.net: handstand shoulder press share this article load comments people are reading 1 the only 5 exercises you need to be strong for life 2 what muscles are used in push-up exercises? 3 what type of push-up works the lower chest? 4 the best at-home chest workout for men 5 pros and cons of a decline bench press 6 what are the benefits of a decline dumbbell press? get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living. woman man sign up more contact & faq about advertise terms of use privacy policy partner & licensee of the livestrong foundation copyright © 2020 leaf group ltd. use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the livestrong.com terms of use , privacy policy and copyright policy . the material appearing on livestrong.com is for educational use only. it should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. livestrong is a registered trademark of the livestrong foundation. the livestrong foundation and livestrong.com do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies. ca do not sell my personal information