home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » decorating diy quote sign with faux shiplap detail march 18, 2020 in her garage leave a comment this month i will teach you how to make this diy quote sign with a faux shiplap detail. it's a home décor sign with a quote that you can choose! quote signs are so popular right now and for good reason. they are a great way to express your specific style using a unique sentiment … [read more...] arts and craft, decorating diy house number planter box march 11, 2020 domestically creative leave a comment it's important to have house numbers displayed on your home, especially if emergency crews need to locate your house. today i'll show you how to build your own diy house number planter box. diy house number planter box when we moved into our home in the fall of 2018, i had no … [read more...] build it, crafts, decor, decorating, diy faux blue bird eggs and nest february 24, 2020 brittany bailey 18 comments can you think of anything more spring-like than a nest full of blue eggs? today i want to show you how to make faux blue speckled bird eggs and a nest! faux blue bird eggs and nest spring has arrived in north carolina and i want to dance and sing and tiptoe through the … [read more...] accessories, arts and craft, birdhouse, blue, centerpieces, crafts, decor, decorating, holiday decorating, home decor, paintbrushes, painting mid-century modern lighting options for millie’s remodel february 17, 2020 brittany bailey leave a comment mid-century modern design is a trend that is sweeping the design world by storm. while researching lighting options for millie's remodel, i curated a list of possible light fixtures. here are some of my favorite mid-century modern lighting options. mid-century modern lighting … [read more...] decor, decorating, designer, electrical, light fixture millie’s remodel: kitchen design february 14, 2020 brittany bailey leave a comment the kitchen at millie's remodel has been opened up by removing a wall and the moldy drywall and subfloor have been replaced. now it's time for me to start thinking about the kitchen design elements for this very important space. millie's remodel: kitchen design do you … [read more...] decorating, designer, kitchen, kitchen renovation, millie's remodel 33 bathroom upgrades you can diy february 5, 2020 sheri leave a comment does your bathroom need a little sprucing up? if you're anything like me, you get a little tired of the same boring thing year after year. the 33 projects in this collection are inspiration for how you can diy bathroom upgrades! bathroom upgrades you can diy if your how was … [read more...] decorating, diy, home decor, uncategorized bathroom, diy, roundup 10 unique ways to decorate for valentine’s day february 3, 2020 brittany bailey 14 comments valentine's day is around the corner. it's time to put away your christmas decorations and welcome some romance into your home. you could surround your home with bouquets of roses, but who wants to spend money on flowers that don't last more than a few days. instead i'd love to … [read more...] decorating diy jingle bell garland november 27, 2019 karen decor hint 1 comment i’m always looking for ways to simplify my holiday decorating and re-use what i have. this diy jingle bell garland project is perfect for that! perusing the holiday collections at my favorite home stores gave me the idea of making this simple bell garland. it’s a lovely nod to … [read more...] arts and craft, decor, decorating, diy, do it yourself, holiday decorating, tutorial diy simple fall wreath for less than $10 october 23, 2019 karen decor hint leave a comment diy simple fall wreath for less than $10 hi everyone! happy fall! today i’m back with this super simple wreath idea that will cost you less than $10 all in! it includes using an inexpensive starburst twig wreath from amazon and some cattail bunches that i picked up at dollar … [read more...] arts and craft, autumn fall decor, crafts, decor, decorating, diy, holiday decorating, home decor, tutorial, wreath how to fake a fake pumpkin (faux painting tutorial) september 20, 2019 brittany bailey 16 comments how to fake a fake pumpkin have you seen those neon orange fake pumpkins and nearly vomited because you wouldn't dream of decorating with them. i mean—get real—everyone would know they were fake. ah ha, but have you seen the price tags? $1 - $6? for that price you might just be … [read more...] accessories, art, arts and craft, autumn fall decor, ballard design pears, crafts, decor, decorating, faux painting brick, home decor, paintbrushes, painting, painting & antiquing techniques, pumpkin, renew, tutorial, upcycling, vignettes two ways to install a ceiling hook for plants september 11, 2019 domestically creative 1 comment two ways to install a ceiling hook for plants there are a few different methods to install a ceiling hook to hang a plant from, but this post is going to cover two of them. the first method involves finding a joist, and the second method uses a toggle bolt. don't let the words … [read more...] build it, decorating simple and stylish diy fabric tissue box cover july 24, 2019 karen decor hint 1 comment hey guys, happy summer! i’m back today with another easy home project for you - a simple stylish diy fabric tissue box cover. i don’t know about you, but i think most tissue boxes are tacky. they stick out like a sore thumb in our house! unfortunately, it’s not the type of … [read more...] decor, decorating, diy, fabric, home decor, pottery barn inspiration, sewing, tutorial how to make a mini macrame wall hanging may 22, 2019 karen decor hint 1 comment how to make a mini macrame wall hanging if there's one hobby that has become quite the obsession for me - it’s macrame! it’s really fun to create and the projects are inexpensive to complete. right now macrame wall hangings are all the rage, and add an eclectic look to your … [read more...] art, arts and craft, crafts, decor, decorating, diy, kids art macrame diy oilcloth drink coasters april 17, 2019 karen decor hint 3 comments diy oilcloth drink coasters hi there! i’m so thrilled to be back today with this super quick and easy project. the weather in seattle has been totally amazing lately and it’s got me thinking about summer. and, summer entertaining is on the brain! this project will look great … [read more...] decor, decorating, dining room, diy, fabric, gift ideas, home decor, july 4th, party, sewing, summer, tablescape, tutorial 31 inspirational diy farmhouse decor ideas april 10, 2019 sheri 2 comments inspirational diy farmhouse decor many of us are still in love with the farmhouse style of decorating. it's warm, relaxing and full of character. farmhouse style is a mixture of old and new pieces, bringing in a rustic and vintage feel, but not excluding shiny and new. here are … [read more...] arts and craft, crafts, decor, decorating, trash to treasure, tutorial, upcycling decor, diy, farmhouse, roundup how to pick color palettes: color harmony in decorating march 31, 2019 brittany bailey 25 comments color harmony in decorating one of the most frequent complaints from homeowners is struggling to choose colors for their home. when you walk into the paint store, the color selection can seem overwhelming. choosing a rug or furniture can be equally daunting. today i'll give you … [read more...] accessories, color theory, decor, decorating, holiday decorating, home decor, painting 1 2 3 … 21 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok