live chat 24/7/365 support toll free: customer login | support | affiliates toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. web hosting website builder wordpress hosting vps dedicated domains pricing support affiliates need help? call us! customer login toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. menu sign into hostgator portal sign into website builder give us a ring at (866) 96-gator hosting shared hosting easy, affordable and awesome. website builder all you gotta do is drag and drop. wordpress hosting their flexibility + our amazing hosting. compare all features pro hosting dedicated hosting the best in both power and performance. vps hosting complete control without the expense. reseller hosting work for a boss you trust: you. compare all features domains register domains claim your perfect name. transfer domains bring your name over to our game. what's a domain name? support live chat have a question? we're here 24/7/365 call us give us a ring at (866) 96-gator knowledge base know what the pros know. commonly asked questions how do i purchase an ssl and what type is it? how do i point my domain to hostgator? hostgator website transfers? affiliates become an affiliate call 24/7/365 at (866) 96-gator sign in → portal head to the customer dashboard. website builder go right into the builder live chat → dedicated server hosting get the ultimate in power and control with our dedicated hosting! value server now 37% off! 4 core / 8 thread intel xeon-d cpu 8 gb ram 1 tb hdd unmetered bandwidth linux or windows os starting at $119.00/mo* buy now! power server now 44% off! 8 core / 16 thread intel xeon-d cpu 16 gb ram 2 tb hdd or 512 gb ssd unmetered bandwidth linux or windows os starting at $139.00/mo* buy now! enterprise server now 48% off! 8 core / 16 thread intel xeon-d cpu 30 gb ram 1 tb ssd unmetered bandwidth linux or windows os starting at $149.00/mo* buy now! got questions? we can help. call us now at (855) 684-8172(855) 684-8172 or request a call back ssd vs hdd? fully managed vs semi-managed faqs read more maximum performance as the only customer on a managed dedicated server hosting platform, you have the full system resources directly at your disposal with both hdd and ssd hard drive options available, our flexible server configurations make it easy for you to choose what's best for your website state-of-the-art data center level ddos protection and an ip-based firewall keep your server safe and performing optimally world-class support 24/7/365 server monitoring and technical support via telephone and live chat all custom dedicated servers are hosted in a us-based, tier 3 data center the hostgator online support portal boasts over 500 video tutorials and nearly 700 easily-searchable articles for your dedicated hosting solutions advanced management cpanel and whm are provided on all linux servers for powerful management of both hosting-specific functions and overall server configuration windows dedicated server hosting includes the plesk control panel and webmatrix to quickly and easily create and manage your websites for any support issues, our team is available to assist you, 24/7/365 all dedicated servers also include: 3 dedicated ipv4 ips raid-1 configuration full root access ddos protection 24/7/365 live support unlimited databases fully redundant network managed or semi- managed solutions managed support includes our direct assistance with virtually any technical or configuration request you may have, excluding custom software/script installations. for semi-managed customers, we will handle any hardware, operating system, or basic configuration issues. be sure to select the option which best meets your needs. semi-managed managed os options choice of preferred operating system centos, ubuntu, windows, or debian centos or windows system monitoring maintaining optimal server functionality and health proactive: overall network and host health proactive: overall network and host health reactive: customer environment software patching to ensure your server remains secure and running the most updated and secure patches proactive: all network and host patching proactive: all network, host, and security-related patches, as well as automated patching available to all containers control panel & applications a control panel allows for non-command line (ie. gui) management of server functions not available cpanel (linux) and plesk (windows) include automated updates. application updates are available through marketplace data backups & migration migration is the movement of data from one server to another, backups ensure a safe copy of any data exists from which any lost data can be restored customer-managed offsite backup solutions are available as an option data migrations are available upon request server optimization ensure your server is performing at an optimal level relative to your individual needs and any custom installs not available available as an optional service os options choice of preferred operating system semi-managed centos, ubuntu, windows, or debian managed centos or windows system monitoring maintaining optimal server functionality and health semi-managed proactive: overall network and host health managed proactive: overall network and host health reactive: customer environment software patching to ensure your server remains secure and running the most updated and secure patches semi-managed proactive: all network and host patching managed proactive: all network, host, and security-related patches, as well as automated patching available to all containers control panel & applications a control panel allows for non-command line (ie. gui) management of server functions semi-managed not available managed cpanel (linux) and plesk (windows) include automated updates. application updates are available through marketplace data backups & migration migration is the movement of data from one server to another, backups ensure a safe copy of any data exists from which any lost data can be restored semi-managed customer-managed managed offsite backup solutions are available as an option data migrations are available upon request server optimization ensure your server is performing at an optimal level relative to your individual needs and any custom installs semi-managed not available managed available as an optional service faqs what is dedicated web hosting? with dedicated web hosting, you're renting a physical server dedicated to your website, and your website only. a dedicated server is much faster than shared hosting because you're not sharing resources like bandwidth or storage with other websites hosted on the same server. do i need dedicated web hosting? if you're looking for the ultimate in control, flexibility, and security, a dedicated server will provide you and your site visitors with the best experience. no more bandwidth issues, configuration limits, or shared ip addresses. what are dedicated servers for games? a gaming server is a dedicated server used for online games such as world of warcraft or minecraft. the benefit of a dedicated server for gaming is that your server is often more stable than the game client itself, which is impacted by multiple players and resources. for a smooth gaming experience that you control, a dedicated server is the way to go. what custom dedicated server configurations does hostgator offer? if you want to set up a custom environment, our team can help. call us at (866) 964-2867 to discuss your needs. ssd vs hdd: what's the difference? ssd provides twice as much speed over hdd in i/o benchmarking tests. here's how: "like a memory stick, there are no moving parts to an ssd. rather, information is stored in microchips. conversely, a hard disk drive uses a mechanical arm with a read/write head to move around and read information from the right location on a storage platter. this difference is what makes ssd so much faster." ssd vs hdd | storagereview.com - storage reviews www.storagereview.com/ssd_vs_hdd dedicated servers provide maximum performance dedicated servers are ideal for larger businesses and high-traffic websites. enjoy maximum customization, configuration, installation, and overall flexibility; all backed by hostgator's unparalleled support. got a question? call us at (855) 684-8172(855) 684-8172. *prices reflect discount on first term, vat not included. got a question? we can help. request a call back ×close contact request name* phone number* email address* best time to call time of day morning afternoon evening *required fields hostgator hosting web hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting reseller hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting application hosting windows hosting website builder domains register domains transfer domains manage domains services codeguard web design ppc seo affiliates become an affiliate affiliate portal support customer portal support portal video tutorials network status live chat company about hostgator awards & reviews press & media company blog contact us careers partners do not sell my info global directory sitemap terms of service privacy copyright 2016 hostgator.com llc. all rights reserved. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.