bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr dedicated hosting for websites that require the ultimate in performance, security, and control. choose plan standard ca$107.29/mo* normally ca$160.94 select 4 cores @ 2.3 ghz 500gb (mirrored) storage 4 gb ram 5 tb bandwidth 3 ip addresses enhanced ca$134.12/mo* normally ca$214.59 select 4 cores @ 2.5 ghz 1tb (mirrored) storage 8 gb ram 10 tb bandwidth 4 ip addresses premium ca$160.94/mo* normally ca$281.66 select 4 cores @ 3.3 ghz 1tb (mirrored) storage 16 gb ram 15 tb bandwidth 5 ip addresses features advanced features optional features tuned for optimum performance new functionality brings maximum power to everyone. free domain name for 1st year one year of domain registration is included with each new plan. after the initial year, the domain can be renewed at market price. free ssl certificate an ssl provides a secure connection to your website, allows for ecommerce, and protects personal information for added security. 30-day money-back guarantee if you are unhappy for any reason within the first 30 days of service, you can cancel for a full refund of hosting fees; restrictions apply. extreme speed each server is custom-built using the latest open source technology, like openstack. this allows the flexibility to upgrade performance of the server over time. fast provisioning our team of specialists build and rack your server, connecting it to the network within 24-72 hours. this ensures that you can get started working as soon as possible. raid storage our high-quality storage configuration uses raid1, so that your data is mirrored. this redundancy helps ensure that your data is extremely well protected. storage upgrades with our enhanced cpanel interface, you are able to increase the available storage on your server on-the-fly, in realtime, without any server admin assistance. root access all dedicated servers optionally include full root access, allowing advanced users with unrestricted access to perform custom installs or other customization. dedicated support enjoy expedited support from specialized agents specifically-trained to assist with dedicated hosting issues. this ensures an optimal support experience. more features choose a plan powerful, flexible hosting our dedicated solution is powered by an industry-leading, robust platform. unmanaged advanced users can have unfettered access and control over everything from the operating system to apache with our unmanaged dedicated server hosting. improved cpanel every dedicated configuration includes the option of our enhanced cpanel-based interface which makes it easy to manage all of your websites, domains, emails, resources, and more from one central location. multi-server management need more than one hosting service? you can add shared hosting, vps hosting, or even additional dedicated hosting services to your existing account and manage all of them in one place. access control create passwords granting access to limited aspects of your account. issue one for ownership information and one for server administration, along with your master password. advanced capabilities our servers are designed from the ground up to support everything you could need, such as secure shell (ssh) access, server-side includes, log file access, and web-based managers for files, databases, and email. customize your own .htaccess files, cron jobs, and php.ini files. database management easily organize, edit, and manage databases directly on the server with our custom-designed database manager. more features choose a plan optional add-ons enhance your account with marketing, security, email upgrades, and more. domain privacy + protection help to prevent identity theft, spam, and phishing attacks by masking the personal information associated with your domain name. receive sms alerts (message and data rates may apply) for changes to your domain and avoid domain blacklists with domain privacy + protection. sitelock defend your websites against attacks and malware by detecting and fixing vulnerabilities and threats before they cause problems. spam protection powered by google, postini filters out harmful and unwanted content before it reaches your inbox, isolating quarantined messages for you to review. choose a plan dedicated support all dedicated server customers have access to our elite team of dedicated server support specialists. this exclusive support line is available to you 24/7. 855-738-8839 chat frequently asked questions what is dedicated hosting? dedicated hosting is a website hosting environment that provides the highest level of resource allocation, privacy, and control. dedicated servers are completely isolated from one another, so users get full access to configure their server anyway they want without affecting another user or being affected by the actions of other users. what are dedicated hosting benefits? control, privacy, and guaranteed resources are the primary benefits of both vps hosting and dedicated hosting. however dedicated servers are not shared with any other users, so the performance of a dedicated server customer's website is stable and predictable. customers with high traffic websites are often the best fit for dedicated hosting. what is the difference between vps vs dedicated hosting? users of vps hosting have allocated resources just like dedicated hosting users, however the amount of available resources on vps servers may still not be what a website needs. for example, vps servers often start at 2gb of ram, whereas dedicated servers often start with at least 4gb of ram available. in short, dedicated hosting allows for the same full customization and control of a vps server, but with even more horsepower. how do i get started with dedicated hosting? getting started with dedicated hosting is easy. simply choose from our standard, enhanced, or premium dedicated hosting packages based on the amount of resources your website needs and follow the sign up instructions. call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 855-503-0450 international - +1 801-765-9400 dedicated hosting solutions only ca$107.29/month* get started × free domain policy if you register a domain with bluehost when signing up for a hosting account, there is a domain fee that is non-refundable. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. regardless of the status of your hosting service, you'll be free to manage it, transfer it after any required lock periods, or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you elect to extend it. * the promotional price is for the first term only and renews at the regular rate. * 30-day money-back guarantee does not extend to domain names. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.