find a course sign up coursera blog degrees for business for educators product news stories degrees degrees on coursera transform your resume with a high-value degree from a top university latest updates: for degrees featured is a graduate degree worth it? february 20, 2019 the decision to pursue a graduate education can be a profoundly important one. it’s a big commitment to the next… degrees 53 when it “clicked”: a penn mcit online student shares how he went from no computer science background to coding video games in 3 months february 18, 2020 working full time for the u.s. state department, aleks jarcev has mastered time management while earning his degree online. aleks jarcev grew up spending endless hours playing computer games and even attempting to build them. now, after three months in the mcit online program from the university of pennsylvania, he is coding video games on… 1 finding an accessible path to impactful health work with michigan’s online mph degree january 30, 2020 university of michigan’s school of public health is ranked in the top five public health research institutions in the us and is taught by leaders in the field. in the population and health sciences master of public health program you’ll get hands-on practical experience with community public health issues and gain expertise in the issue… 3 introducing a fully online bachelor’s completion program from the university of north texas january 23, 2020 bachelor of applied arts and sciences from unt is the first bachelor’s degree from a u.s university on coursera by dil sidhu, chief content officer at coursera a four-year degree continues to be regarded as one of the most valued credentials in the job market: an estimated 35% of jobs in the u.s. require at… degrees 8 director of library assessment transforms her work measuring library performance with illinois mcs-ds december 13, 2019 jen-chien yu, a student in the university of illinois at urbana-champaign’s master of computer science in data science (mcs-ds) program, is a wonderful example of how online learners can immediately start to apply their new knowledge to their professional field. yu has been able to apply skills in areas of study like machine learning, data… degrees 1 getting an mcs part ii – what is the program like? november 25, 2019 when preparing to apply for an online mcs, students often ask the essential question - am i prepared for this degree program? in part two of this “getting an mcs” series, we will be going in-depth on how to prepare for the mcs program once you have applied. once you have applied to the program… degrees 5 getting an mcs part i – can i get in? november 25, 2019 when preparing to apply for an online mcs, students often begin by asking themselves if they have the right background for this degree. in part one of this “getting an mcs” series, we will be providing in-depth answers to some of the typical questions students ask during the application process. can i get in? the… degrees 4 degrees product news coursera provides universal access to the world’s best education, partnering with top universities and organizations to offer courses online. © 2020 coursera inc. all rights reserved. coursera about leadership careers catalog professional certificates mastertrack™ certificates degrees for enterprise for campus for government community learners partners developers beta testers translators tech blog connect blog facebook linkedin twitter instagram more terms privacy help accessibility press contact directory affiliates