skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download dehkadeh fonts by sajjad rajab pour details reviews support development description this plugin help you to set persian fonts and size for different parts of the theme via wordpress customizer as easily. also you can set the custom font for wp-admin (wordpress dashboard). there are 120 prepared fonts in the plugin and you can upload your own fonts too. premium fonts like iransans are supported too. this plugin is designed and developed for persian users. if you need any assistant please leave a comment at dehkadeh-wp.ir . also if you need any web design or seo service, you can contact us in dehkadeh-web.ir . manual installation you can download and install the plugin using built in wordpress plugin installer. the manual installation method involves downloading the plugin and uploading it to your webserver via your ftp application. download the plugin file to your computer and unzip it. upload the entire “dw-fonts” folder to the /wp-content/plugins/ directory. activate the plugin through the ‘plugins’ menu in wordpress. installation via wordpress you can install the plugin using built in wordpress plugin installer. from your wordpress admin dashboard go to: plugins > add new search for “dehkadeh fonts” locate the “dehkadeh fonts” plugin and click the install now button. activate the plugin labeled “dehkadeh fonts”. screenshots screenshot #1. customizer panel screenshot #2. select font family screenshot #3. adding new font screenshot #4. select font size screenshot #5. select wordpress dashboard font faq does dehkadeh fonts plugin works with any themes? ans = yes. dehkadeh fonts will work with any themes. reviews بسیار عالی است. توصیه میکنم nimaad april 21, 2019 افزونه بسیار خوبی است. توصیه می کنم حتما استفاده کنید. بسیار عالی است mrfarmani august 30, 2018 من با چندتایی از افزونه‌هایی که فونت به سایت اضافه می‌کنند کار کردم، این کاملا فرق دارد و به نظرم بهترین افزونه ای بوده که تا حالا برای فونت استفاده کردم. read all 3 reviews contributors & developers “dehkadeh fonts” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors dehkadeh wp translate “dehkadeh fonts” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.2.0 compatible with wordpress 5.0.1 1.0.1 compatible with php 5.3 1.0.0 initial release meta version: 1.2.0 last updated: 1 year ago active installations: 1,000+ wordpress version: 4.2 or higher tested up to: 5.1.0 tags: typographywebfonts advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 2 4 stars 0 3 stars 0 2 stars 0 1 star 0 contributors dehkadeh wp support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 1 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.