/ xeni jardin / 12:09 pm fri mar 27, 2020 demanding coronavirus protections, instacart workers plan to strike monday, march 30 follow us twitter / facebook / rss [cdc] “they are putting us directly in harm’s way while profiting greatly. we cannot let this be considered normal.” the "instacart shoppers and gig workers collective," representing some 175,000 laborers for instacart, plan to strike on monday, march 30. organizers of the labor protest say the grocery delivery giant is denying gig workers ("shoppers") basic coronavirus pandemic protections such as gloves, soap, hand sanitizer, and pay for those with pre-existing health issues that place them at high risk for covid-19. read their demands at medium.com/@gigworkerscollective. here's an excerpt: on monday, march 30, shoppers will walk off of our jobs, and will not return to work until our demands are met. we demand that instacart meet the following conditions: • safety precautions at no cost to workers — ppe (at minimum hand sanitizer, disinfectant wipes/sprays and soap). • hazard pay — an extra $5 per order and defaulting the in-app tip amount to at least 10% of the order total. • an extension and expansion of pay for workers impacted by covid-19 — anyone who has a doctor’s note for either a preexisting condition that’s a known risk factor or requiring a self-quarantine. • the deadline to qualify for these benefits must be extended beyond april 8th. instacart's response is here. reporting from lauren kaori gurley at vice motherboard: on monday, workers say they will refuse to accept orders until instacart provides hazard pay of an additional $5 an order, free safety gear (hand sanitizer, disinfectant wipes, and soap) to workers, and expands its paid sick leave to include workers with pre-existing conditions who have been advised by their doctors not to work at this time. workers say the strike will last until instacart agrees to these terms. the march 30 walkout will build on a wave of wildcat strikes sweeping across the country. in recent days, amazon warehouse workers in queens, new york, sanitation workers in pittsburgh, and poultry plant workers at perdue farms in georgia have all walked off the job, demanding greater protections from coronavirus, and leading to calls for a “general strike,” or mass strike action across the country. meanwhile, the upcoming instacart strike will mark the first time gig workers in the united states—who face the double bind of working on the front lines of virus and lacking basic labor protections like healthcare and paid sick days—have walked off the job in response to coronavirus. in a blog post friday morning, instacart promises “new features and offerings” in response to covid-19, but none of this addresses gig workers’ demands. excerpt: “the health and safety of our entire community — shoppers, customers, and employees — is our first priority. our goal is to offer a safe and flexible earnings opportunity to shoppers, while also proactively taking the appropriate precautionary measures to operate safely. we want to underscore that we absolutely respect the rights of shoppers to provide us feedback and voice their concerns. it’s a valuable way for us to continuously make improvements to the shopper experience and we’re committed to supporting this important community during this critical time.” read more at vice motherboard: instacart’s gig workers are planning a massive, nationwide strike share / tweet / 2 comments business / coronavirus / covid-19 / covid19 / gig economy / pandemic capitalism / tech news / us news get the boing boing newsletter coronavirus: disneyland resort and walt disney world resort 'closed until further notice' on friday, disney announced that disneyland resort and walt disney world resort will remain closed until further notice. read the rest cirque du soleil launches online portal for viewing shows, explores bankruptcy in coronavirus shutdown: reuters cirque du soleil just launched ‘cirqueconnect,’ where you can view shows — it’s especially great for kids stuck indoors during the pandemic shutdown. all of the company’s live shows are canceled due to the coronavirus crisis, and they are exploring financial options that include bankruptcy, reports reuters. las vegas casinos and resorts, including the one […] read the rest two tesla employees test positive for coronavirus, and are recovering from home: reports elon musk previously mocked ‘coronavirus panic’ as ‘dumb.’ read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support