content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip author: dennis shiao dennis is an independent marketing consultant who works with brands on content marketing, product messaging, and social media marketing. formerly, dennis led the content marketing function at dnn software. dennis curates an email newsletter called content corner and publishes marketing-related content on medium. feel free to reach out to dennis on twitter @dshiao company news by dennisshiao published march 25, 2020 3 stunning examples show visual storytelling at its best from caveman drawings to silent movies, visual storytelling has been used to educate, engage, and motivate audiences for centuries. the digital age, though, has ushered in a new set of tools and technologies for visual storytelling. eric goodstadt, president of manifest, and sacha reeb, chief creative officer at the content marketing agency, tackled the topic in their content marketing world presentation, five very different examples of stellar visual storytelling and why they are a step above the marketplace. continue reading company news by dennisshiao published march 4, 2020 how to do visual content with low, medium, and high budgets i was excited to attend a particular session at content marketing world. with 10 minutes to go, i picked up my pace down the hallway. when i arrived, the door was closed with a sign that read “full.” darn. a missed opportunity for sure, but i made up for it by viewing the presentation later and writing about it for you here. continue reading company news by dennisshiao published february 19, 2020 stop wasting time: review your website analytics is reviewing site analytics something that’s always on your to-do list but never gets crossed off? andy crestodina of orbit media says that doesn’t make sense. “the reason to use analytics is to stop wasting time and to abandon those tactics and processes that don’t make a difference. i use analytics because i’m busy,” he says. continue reading company news by dennisshiao published january 30, 2020 a small amount of data can do it for b2b personalization bring up the topic of personalization and marketers undoubtedly reference amazon and netflix. amazon has an uncanny way to recommend related products to add to your shopping cart, while netflix knows just the movie or show you’re in the mood for. while their personalization is indeed fantastic, they have a big advantage: your customer data. amazon knows your detailed purchase history, while netflix knows your detailed viewing history. continue reading company news by dennisshiao published january 1, 2020 7 helpful social media marketing tips for 2020 a badge of honor is displayed on my twitter profile: i joined in december 2007. back then, we were still at 140 characters and link shortening tools didn’t exist. retweets and replies were manual. that’s right: to retweet someone, you had to type “rt @[user],” then copy and paste their tweet. not the new kids on the block, twitter and facebook are teenagers. and instagram? it is 10 this year. continue reading company news by dennisshiao published december 12, 2019 how to do brand storytelling in 3 successful ways most brands are poor at brand storytelling. they take the “brand” component too literally and make it all about them. or they create content without a real story. done well, brand storytelling can be not only a differentiator but a memorable opportunity to draw and engage an audience. let’s explore three avenues for successful brand storytelling shared at content marketing world 2019. continue reading company news by dennisshiao published november 14, 2019 the one way to stand out in the crowd of content this story begins in the present. brian fanzo is a founder, ceo, and keynote speaker. he does 70 speaking engagements a year. over the past four years, he has done more than 4,000 live video broadcasts. brian works with leading brands, including dell, adobe, ibm, and sap. he did influencer engagements at mobile world congress and the super bowl. chances are you know brian. continue reading company news by dennisshiao published november 7, 2019 analyze 6 elements to land better conversion rates whenever i predict the winner of an a/b test, i get it wrong. with years of marketing experience and a lifetime of filling out online forms, i think i know what combinations of copy, layout, and design will work better. but thousands of users prove me wrong, time and again. continue reading company news by dennisshiao published october 9, 2019 get the audience greenlight: a lesson from a 19th century nurse do you recognize these two famous people? continue reading company news by dennisshiao published september 25, 2019 ethical marketing: are you crossing the line? as i was getting ready to pick up my wife and daughter at the airport, i went to google and entered the airline and flight number. i wasn’t expecting what i found. i expected to see a google answer box neatly displaying the flight status like i do for simple searches like “time in london,” “100 dollars to japanese yen,” and “59 degrees fahrenheit to celsius.” continue reading 1 2 3 next page » connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree