rutgers school of environmental and biological sciences rutgers rutgers–new brunswick new jersey agricultural experiment stationnjaes myrutgers search rutgers department of food science search menu menu close menu main menu dept. home about us contact department faculty department staff advisory council alumni online giving academic integrity graduate program course description degrees offered financial aid program faculty application info seminar graduate students undergraduate programs curriculum scholarships research professional seminar series outreach public service short courses donald w. schaffner, ph. d. faculty links biography outreach curriculum vitae contact biography dr. donald w. schaffner is extension specialist in food science and distinguished professor at rutgers university. his research interests include quantitative microbial risk assessment, predictive food microbiology, handwashing and cross-contamination. dr. schaffner has authored more than 150 peer-reviewed publications, and numerous book chapters and abstracts. he has been the recipient of more than $8 million in grants and contracts, largely in the form of competitive national grants. dr. schaffner has educated thousands of food industry professionals through numerous short courses and workshops in the united states and dozens of countries around the world. dr. schaffner was awarded the international association for food protection (iafp) elmer marth educator award in 2009 for outstanding service to the public and iafp in the area food safety and food protection education. dr. schaffner has served on a variety of expert committees, including service to us national academy of sciences and the world health organization (who) and food and agriculture organization (fao) of the united nations, the institute of food technologists (ift) and us national advisory committee on microbial criteria for foods (nacmcf). dr. schaffner is active in iafp, ift, the society for risk analysis (sra), the american society for microbiology (asm), and the conference for food protection (cfp). dr. schaffner was elected a fellow of ift in 2010, of the american academy for microbiology in 2014 and of the international association for food protection in 2017. he has served as an editor for the asm journal applied and environmental microbiology since 2005. dr. schaffner was elected the secretary of the iafp in 2010, a five-year commitment including service as president of the organization in 2013-2014. he is the co-host of a podcast on microbial food safety at http://foodsafetytalk.com. he holds a b.s. in food science from cornell university and a m.s. and ph.d. in food science and technology from the university of georgia. department of food science school of environmental and biological sciences rutgers, the state university of new jersey 65 dudley rd., new brunswick, nj 08901-8520 food science & nutritional sciences west | 848-932-9611 webmaster: uchitel@sebs.rutgers.edu rutgers, the state university of new jersey rutgers–new brunswick myrutgers school of environmental and biological sciences new jersey agricultural experiment station sebs and njaes newsroom rutgers university is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with rutgers web sites to: accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the report accessibility barrier or provide feedback form. copyright © 2018 rutgers, the state university of new jersey.