the onion the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop news in brief department of interior announces birds will continue going about regular bird activities during pandemic you may also like sports kawhi leonard misses second consecutive family game night citing load management 2 hours ago sports tom brady awakens from week-long kombucha bender to discover he’s a tampa bay buccaneer yesterday 9:30am local global pandemic that has killed thousands giving woman just the push she needed to organize tupperware cabinet today 12:41pm more from g/o media read on woman working from home instinctively tries to steal tampons from own bathroom read on u.n. names finland happiest country for third year in a row read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure read on deal alert: the federal government is cutting you a $1,200 stimulus check that you can, and should, spend exclusively on 75 copies of ‘stardew valley’ subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe today 12:04pm • see more: animals animalsnaturecoronavirusnewsvol 56 issue 12 washington—urging americans to maintain social distancing despite what they see other animals doing, officials for the u.s. department of the interior announced friday that birds will continue going about their regular bird activities during the coronavirus pandemic. “even as we humans shelter-in-place over the next several weeks, i want the public to understand that our avian friends will be going about their regular bird business of flapping and squawking,” said secretary of the interior david bernhardt, adding that it is unclear if the winged vertebrates can spread the coronavirus, but it doesn’t matter because whatever birds do in their free time is outside the purview of his office. “rest assured, birds will still be alighting on branches, building nests, digging for worms, and generally getting on with their normal lives even as the pandemic rages on. pecking, shitting, chirping, flying; you name it and birds will continue doing it, unaffected by the virus that has brought our lives to a grinding halt. hell, they’ll even be crashing into windows and getting murdered by cats, and that’s totally ok. they’re birds, you know?” at press time, bernhardt confirmed that bison quarantined inside national parks have been losing their fucking minds with boredom. advertisement share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion study finds female mammals live longer than males tom brady awakens from week-long kombucha bender to discover he’s a tampa bay buccaneer how the 1% are responding to coronavirus 20 women throughout history and 5 from the future share tweet