welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog the boston globe to offer job interviews to micromasters® program completers published on: feb 20, 2020 by carolyn tiernan 1872 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to announce the latest company that is collaborating with edx to offer job interviews for micromasters® program completers. to source candidates with data, digital, and strategic skill sets, boston globe media partners (bgmp) is offering job interviews for select micromasters program certificate holders for key roles with its the boston globe, boston.com, and stat brands. the boston globe will grant interviews to... read more about the boston globe to offer job interviews to micromasters® program completers edx welcomes nyu tandon school of engineering published on: apr 10, 2019 by cate cho yoo 2856 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to welcome new york university (nyu) tandon school of engineering to the global community of edx partners. nyu tandon is rooted in tradition and opportunity, with the mission to generate ideas and build solutions for a healthier, safer, better-connected, and more sustainable world. it is part of the larger nyu system, which has nearly 60,000 students across all 50 u.s. states and... read more about edx welcomes nyu tandon school of engineering new micromasters® programs offer in-depth knowledge in today’s hottest industries published on: jan 19, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 3198 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post 8 sustainability courses to help you build a better future published on: jul 19, 2017 by zahra islam 7269 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in 2017, we know global warming is no longer a myth, but a rapidly increasing issue worldwide. earlier this month, world leaders gathered at the g20 summit and established sustainable development and growth as one of our world’s primary goals. the leaders’ discussed how they will create new jobs to promote the spread of digital technology for social development, with their main focus being preventing... read more about 8 sustainability courses to help you build a better future mayank: solving real-life supply chain network design problems published on: feb 21, 2017 by sara reich 6486 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to continue to share learner stories from the mitx supply chain management micromasters program that demonstrate how micromasters programs are helping people improve their lives and advance their careers. today, mayank, a supply chain consultant working with antuit consulting, shares how he is leveraging the supply chain management micromasters courses to deliver impactful results and share effective business insights with his clients. with... read more about mayank: solving real-life supply chain network design problems courses from top universities, designed for school leaders starting now published on: jan 17, 2017 by anant agarwal 5221 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in 2015, we were proud to announce a collaboration with microsoft to help k-12 school leaders spark innovation and enhance learning. today, that promise becomes a reality with microsoft in education on edx and the first course, launching innovation in schools from mitx, starts today with additional courses beginning in january, february and march. bringing together the best in technology with experts in education, microsoft... read more about courses from top universities, designed for school leaders starting now from pac-man to pokémon go: the role of a video game designer published on: oct 27, 2016 by stephen jacobs 5949 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we love video games because they take us out of our own reality and immerse us in an engaging experience. whether you’re behind the scope of a rifle as you fight in an interstellar war in halo, manage a farm and its crop development in farmville, or strategize your gameplay in tetris, there is a gaming escape for everyone. from console games to smartphones, the... read more about from pac-man to pokémon go: the role of a video game designer ux design career options make it a top choice of the year published on: oct 13, 2016 by david mcpherson 7003 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post it’s no surprise that ux specialists are in such high demand. with the explosion of connected, digital products, a.k.a. the internet of things (iot), comes the ability for consumers to interact with products and services in ways never thought possible. the user experience has become the key differentiating factor setting one product or service apart from another and companies know this. glassdoor placed the job... read more about ux design career options make it a top choice of the year ux research & design micromasters: developing great user experiences from concept to prototype published on: sep 29, 2016 by james devaney, mark newman 7771 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this is a guest blog post from mark newman, associate professor, school of information, department of electrical engineering and computer science, university of michigan (@nooom) and james devaney, associate vice provost for academic innovation, university of michigan (@devaneygoblue). successful products deliver great experiences for their users. increasingly, businesses across all industries are recognizing that user experience research and design are critical to success, and as a result... read more about ux research & design micromasters: developing great user experiences from concept to prototype designing parts to make a better whole published on: apr 08, 2015 by mukta g 4022 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post guest post: tim chartier, davidson college on march 30th, davidsonx applications of linear algebra part 1 ended. with applications of linear algebra part 2 starting this week, we wanted to highlight what students have learned so far and encourage learners to join us as we embark on part 2. we explored the use of linear algebra in computers graphics and data mining. we saw how to blend images, even in animations,... read more about designing parts to make a better whole search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close