home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources category: design read more community organizer / design / featured #83: john maeda – global head, computational design and inclusion at automattic by timur meyster on april 16, 2018 john maeda is the global head of computational design and inclusion at automattic. previously, he was a partner at kleiner perkins where he founded the design and tech report that’s read by people all over… read more design / featured #77: vicki tan – product designer at headspace talks about mindfulness by timur meyster on february 25, 2018 prior to her current role as a rockstar product designer at headspace, vicki tan holds an impressive portfolio having worked previously at lyft and interned at google. she has worked in the hr and also… read more design / featured #66: rocio lopez – a product designer & a daca recipient is standing up for all dreamers by timur meyster on october 3, 2017 rocio lopez came to the u.s. as an undocumented minor and lived on the east side of palo alto. for years, she and her family have gone through so much struggle until the deferred action… read more design / engineering / featured #54: erica prenga – how a graphic design major became an experience engineer at adobe by timur meyster on june 2, 2017 erica prenga is currently an experience developer at adobe. aware that she had a different learning style, she decided to quit college after her fourth year of studying graphic design until she ultimately figured that… read more design / featured #21: mo woods – ball is life: pro basketball player (6′ 10″ in) who became a designer by timur meyster on february 2, 2017 maurice is a 6’10” richmond, california-native, legendary designer, and former professional basketball player who worked at several tech companies including microsoft and yahoo. he is the founder of inneract project that helps youth and communities… read more design / featured / founders / growth #20: nick dewilde – program director at tradecraft focusing on biz dev, product design and growth by timur meyster on january 30, 2017 a san francisco-native, nick dewilde was so certain he wanted to make movies but he ended up taking on a different path that impacts people’s lives. nick is now the program director at tradecraft, an… read more design / featured #14: chia lin – michelin star pastry chef turned product designer by timur meyster on january 8, 2017 born and raised in taiwan, chia lin has traveled far and wide. she came to tennessee when she was 11, moved to california in high school and college, and lived in tokyo for a year…. read more design / featured melanie araujo – visual and interaction designer by timur meyster on december 29, 2016 a boston-native and freelance ux designer, melanie araujo is the founder of front & center, a company that helps underprivileged people break into tech through design. prior to design, melanie has a professional background in… read more design / featured meghan schofield – ux / ui designer by timur meyster on december 11, 2016 meghan schofield is an ohio-native who has an impressive knack for creative problem solving. prior to her current role as a ux/product designer at infrastructure startup, coreos, meghan worked in the field of museum exhibit… subscribe be the first to get the latest breaking into startups podcast updates, right to your inbox. we’ll never spam you. our guests came from: about us the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds.our mission is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. facebook twitter instagram © 2020 breaking into startups. privacy policy top join 1,055 other subscribers! email subscribe now we respect your privacy. join our newsletter today! stay updated with all the latest episodes, upcoming events & much more. hack reactor prep prepare for any coding bootcam (free) learn more no thanks!