menu first round review magazinesmanifestobooksfirst round capital get the review deliveredget the review delivered join thank you! search close search close homemagazinesmanifestobooksfirst round capital get the review deliveredget the review delivered join thank you! twitterfacebooklinkedin design share with your team today design ready, set, hypergrowth: how duo's product design lead primed her team for momentum sally carson joined duo as its first product design leader, just as the security startup was ratcheting into hypergrowth. carson shares her roadmap for scaling the product design function, from advocating for design in an engineering-centric org, to setting up her team for success during rapid growth.keep reading design defining growth design: the guide to the role most startups are missing angel steger serves as our guide on a trek to better understand the still developing speciality of growth design. she shares lessons learned from her roles leading the function at dropbox and pinterest, and outlines tactics for early-stage startups looking to source, interview and onboard growth designers of their own.keep reading design wait but why’s tim urban on parsing and transmitting complex ideas from cryonics to ai to procrastination, wait but why's tim urban distills and presents the most complex ideas. here he shares how he makes sense of hard-to-understand concepts so they're rich and resonant for others — an act that every startup leader and team must master over and over again.keep reading design our 6 must reads for building and leading a product design team a well-thought-out design team often accompanies enduring product design. here are six pieces of advice to help you build and lead a design team from the sole designer to a larger design organization. keep reading design box’s vp engineering on biohacks for a better career if your morning or nightly routine sounds about as far removed from your work life as you can get, think again. biohacks, from blue-light blocking glasses to morning sessions in a sauna, add up — and can help you navigate not just your job, but a long, productive career. box's vp engineering tomas barreto shares how. keep reading design cognitive overhead is your product’s overlord — topple it with these tips google photos' product lead david lieb cut his teeth on an app that allowed users to swap contact information by physically bumping phones. drawing from bump and other startups, lieb shows how user adoption and virality can come from stripping cognitive overhead from products.keep reading design defining product design: a dispatch from airbnb's design chief airbnb vp of design alex schleifer shares how design can become a more intentional, integrated discipline — and why it must be in order to better build products. keep reading design the recursive product strategy that musk used to build an empire serial entrepreneur and civic co-founder and ceo vinny lingham shares what it actually means to build a company for the long term. keep reading design here’s how asana won with its product redesign redesigns are difficult and inevitable. product manager sam goertler shares how asana successfully executed its redesign with a unique, iterative approach. keep reading design the only onboarding timeline you’ll need: from offer to first friday percolate co-founder noah brier shares why your company is only as strong as its onboarding plan. keep reading design making design bets to knock the blurs into shape dom goodrum, design director at percolate, talks about making long-term bets to build a strong design team and strategy.keep reading design get the most out of your space - secrets from the workplace designer behind airbnb and soundcloud from wall colors to snack options, office designer kelly robinson shares tips that any startup can use to make the most of their workspace.keep reading design rap genius explains why worse is better tom lehman, co-founder of genius, talks about the real value of mvps and why it's good to build bad sometimes.keep reading design how modern marketplaces like uber and airbnb build trust to achieve liquidity anand iyer, former head of product at threadflip, on how marketplaces can build trust in order to build their businesses.keep reading design software is eating hardware - lessons for building magical devices adam macbeth has advised hardware companies like jawbone and fiftythree. here, he offers tactics for startups to create magical products.keep reading design this startup cracked a $2.4 billion market with branding — here’s their formula harry's has claimed a large part of the market through beautiful branding. here, the duo behind it shares their recipe for great campaigns.keep reading design this advice from ideo's nicole kahn will transform the way you give presentations ideo's nicole kahn shares insider tips on how to give killer presentations to any audience for winning results.keep reading design how startups can do retail right from the inventor of the apple store ron johnson is known as the creator of the apple store. now he's sharing advice for startups that want to pursue and win at retail.keep reading design what to do when you’re the only designer they’ve got betable's chief experience officer jeffrey kalmikoff on how to make it if you're the first or only designer at a startup. keep reading design how design thinking transformed airbnb from a failing startup to a billion dollar business airbnb co-founder joe gebbia talks about the true meaning of being scrappy and being willing to do things that don't scale.keep reading design head designer of mint on why great design isn’t about making things pretty mint co-founder jason putorti on leading a team of designers to create emotionally-intelligent products people love.keep reading design how old magazines and lamborghinis inform flipboard’s design process and approach flipboard's didier hilhorst on the best places to look for design inspiration and effective ways to channel it into your work.keep reading design stop dancing around criticism and put it to use with these tips from airbnb's head of experience design katie dill, airbnb's head of experience design, on how to critique your colleagues' work the right way to move things forward.keep reading design how designers can earn a seat at the table phil king rose through the ranks to lead design at flickr. his mission: to help more designers become leaders and advocate for their craft.keep reading design spotify’s design lead on why side projects should be stupid if you take what you're doing too seriously, you're likely to squeeze the life out of it. here's a guide to letting your projects stay stupid and fun.keep reading design dropbox's head of design on the dawn of personalized products as one of the first designers at facebook and dropbox, soleio cuervo has seen a lot. now he's looking at the next trend: personalization. keep reading design simple design is what you need, not what you want oscar's head of product outlines the four design strategies that will help them disrupt the entrenched health insurance industry.keep reading design an inside look at facebook's method for hiring designers julie zhuo, director of product design, shares facebook's in-depth process for hiring talented designers step by step.keep reading first round review magazinesmanifestobooksfirst round capital get the review deliveredget the review delivered join thank you! twitterfacebooklinkedin