search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. designated survivor season 3: cast, renewal, release date and everything you need to know after it was cancelled by abc, netflix swooped in and saved the day. by ian sandwell, morgan jeffery and abby robinson 12/06/2019 note: contains spoilers for designated survivor. when designated survivor landed back in 2016, it came with a brilliant high concept: jack bauer as president of the united states. the former abc series (now on netflix) charted the highs and lows of president tom kirkman's (kiefer sutherland) early days as commander-in-chief, with year two's midseason finale dropping a game-changing death that guaranteed more high drama. but despite the show settling into its groove, abc decided to do away with it. netflixabc luckily, that sorrow was short-lived. reports began circling immediately that distribution company eone was trying to get another network to pick it up, which it succeeded in doing. so, what can we expect from kiefer's third term? here's everything you need to know. designated survivor season 3 renewal: can we expect it back? season two averaged four million weekly viewers, down on the first season's average audience, but it's not because of the ratings that abc dropped the axe. netflixabc "creatively, we've had a lot of behind-the-scenes churn on the show in terms of the number of showrunners involved. we were less confident with the creative path forward than the other shows we brought back," explained abc president channing dungey (via tvline). related story who can save designated survivor? for his part, sutherland always seemed pretty confident that a third season was in the bag before abc cancelled it. "i do believe it is [coming back], but nothing is ever written in stone," he told digital spy in april. designated survivor season 3 release date: when will it arrive? season two aired its final episode 'run' on may 16 on abc in the us, with the rest of the world being able to watch via netflix one day later. sven frenzelabc netflix confirmed on april 24 that season three will be released on friday, june 7. the uk will still continue to get the new episodes on netflix the day after their us airing. (if you don't have netflix, channel 5 has also begun airing the show in the uk, so the third season will turn up there too...eventually.) designated survivor season 3 cast: who's coming back? there wouldn't be a show without kiefer sutherland as president tom kirkman, but he'll have to deal without his first lady from now on, following alex kirkman (natascha mcelhone) being killed off in the season two midseason finale. getty imagesabc then there's adan canto as aaron shore, italia ricci as emily rhodes, lamonica garrett as mike ritter, kal penn as seth wright and maggie q as hannah wells. notable season two additions paulo constanzo and zoe mclellan should also return as lyor boone and kendra daynes, respectively. the second half of season two also saw michael j fox join the cast for a five-episode arc as washington attorney ethan west, and there was also a 24 reunion as kim raver joined as entrepreneur andrea frost. but we don't yet know if they'll continue in the third season. abc new additions to the show also include former er star anthony edwards and transformers actor julie white, both cast in big recurring roles. edwards will play mars harper, the chief of staff who is described as "likeable and folksy in his manner, and uses that gentility to impose his will." and white will play lorraine zimmer, the bold new campaign manager who is a "force of nature who takes no prisoners", and not averse to pulling a few "dirty tricks" to get what she wants. designated survivor season 3 plot: how does season 2 set it up? despite resolving another international crisis, president kirkman seemed set to step down as president, before a last-minute gesture from ethan west about his integrity saw him announce his bid for re-election in an address to the nation. as the episode ended, president kirkman picked up the phone to talk to the attorney general, but we've no idea what was said. sven frenzelabc the other tantalising strand left open by the season two finale involved emily rhodes who handed in her resignation as chief of staff, which was grudgingly accepted by president kirkman. however, was emily actually working against the president all this time? after hannah wells managed to track down damien's daughter amy, she helped her to draw out russian intelligence agent valeria (nora zehetner), killing her and retrieving a flash drive that contained a video of valeria making a secret exchange with none other than emily. whether we'll find out what that was remains to be seen... abc netflix has said that the third season will revolve around president kirkman's administration facing the realities of "campaigning, smear tactics, debates, campaign finance and 'fake news'" during his re-election bid. "i believe this format will allow us to continue to delve deeply into storylines and issues concerning the american electorate that were not previously possible," sutherland explained. designated survivor season 3 trailer: when can i watch it? right now, ladies and gents. we've popped it below for your viewing pleasure. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from designated survivor kiefer sutherland signs on for new tv show designated survivor season 4: all you need to know advertisement - continue reading below here's why designated survivor was cancelled designated survivor cancelled by netflix designated survivor star doubts season 4 renewal what is designated survivor: 60 days? designated survivor star reacts to major death designated survivor star: 'hiv plot heartbreaking' designated survivor star optimistic about renewal designated survivor needs to keep the new gimmick designated survivor tv features ustv features features us tv tv designated survivor looking good for s3, says kiefer netflix reveals designated survivor s3 air date this is us season 3: everything you need to know who can save designated survivor? unreal season 3: everything you need to know preacher season 3: everything you need to know us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising