skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: design & decor update your patio this year with this one outdoor decorating trend desert-inspired earth tones and bohemian chic vibes are the biggest trends this year for the home. and the trend goes outdoors this summer, too. you don’t have to break the bank to update your patio every year. designers are focusing on one main zone of your outdoor space this year:… by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in inspiration onyx is the new marble and here’s why are you wondering what the difference is between onyx vs. marble? onyx is actually a type of marble and it has many of the same properties. the difference is the stunning patterns and veining in each slab. by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in inspiration how to light your hallway don’t let hallway lighting be an afterthought. use this guide to light your hallway well. image: svet_feo/shutterstock lighting is important. interior designers, real estate agents and staging pros will all tell you it’s true. if you want your home or apartment to feel inviting, it needs… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in other rooms 4 ideas for creative stepping stone pathways if you’re looking for a timeless addition to your yard, consider stepping stone pathways. these add a rustic, natural element that is great for the outdoors. they’re also very versatile in style. many stepping stone pathways are part of a zen style, as these types of yards make great use… by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in inspiration how to decorate with neon lights indoors are you looking for a way to add a fun, artsy twist to your home? then you might want to consider neon lights. at first, this can feel like a tacky idea usually reserved for bars and the windows of tattoo parlors. but you can actually make neon lights work… by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in inspiration exclusive! the most popular benjamin moore colors across the us no two individuals are alike. similarly, each region in the u.s. has distinct styles in fashion, food and music. “these traditions and trademarks permeate all elements of the region’s culture, including into the homes of its residents,” hannah yeo, color & design expert at benjamin moore,… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 5 ideas for using rustic lighting in the backyard rustic chic accents were practically made for the backyard, as their bucolic feel fits well with a natural setting. and if you want to add some instant rustic ambiance and class to your backyard, the fastest way to do it is to add outdoor rustic lighting using string lights. by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in inspiration florals: how to use this classic pattern in a modern way floral prints are a classy addition to any space. however, they have the reputation of being a type of pattern associated with older home styles. country kitchens tend to use florals on wallpaper. victorian styles have floral prints on everything. even retro spaces sometimes go for funky and artsy f… by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in inspiration steal these 3 home design trends for wedding decorating ideas some of the most popular home decor trends make their way to wedding decorating. whether you're getting married at home or having a destination wedding, check out these home trends and the wedding decorating ideas you can use to get the look in your own wedding. by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 4 chic ways to use rustic brickwork brickwork is a common texture that’s used in a variety of trends. it’s useful for imparting a classic or bucolic vibe into a space. as a result, you most typically see it in rustic or country styles. but rustic brickwork has become a larger part of chic trends through the… by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 1 2 3 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss