kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! kottke.org posts about design see also... art video infoviz logos typography music medicine remix movies olympic games subway video games games food books iconic art & design reimagined for the social distancing era posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2020 while it predates the covid-19 pandemic and its accompanying social distancing by several years, josé manuel ballester’s concealed spaces project reimagines iconic works of art without the people in them (like what’s happening to our public spaces right now). no one showed up for leonardo’s last supper: hieronymus bosch’s the garden of earthly delights is perhaps just as delightful without people: and botticelli’s the birth of venus has been rescheduled: ben greenman, andy baio, and paco conde & roberto fernandez have some suggestions for new album covers: designer jure tovrljan redesigned some company logos for these coronavirus times. coca-cola even modified their own logo on a times square billboard to put some distance between the letters. (via colossal & fast company) update: some emoji designed specifically for covid-19. the earth with the pause button is my favorite. (via sidebar) more about... andy baio art ben greenman design emoji jose manuel ballester jure tovrljan logos music paco conde remix roberto fernandez ads via carbon stream helvetica & other design documentaries for free posted by jason kottke mar 23, 2020 thinking that some people might need high quality entertainment while shut inside due to the covid-19 pandemic, filmmaker gary hustwit is streaming his films online for free, one film per week. first up (from mar 17-24) is helvetica, his documentary on typography and graphic design. here’s the trailer: click through to watch the whole film. (via daring fireball) more about... design gary hustwit helvetica movies trailers typography video no frills branding posted by jason kottke mar 12, 2020 designer kunel gaur, head of a creative agency called animal, has redesigned the packaging for several familiar brands using minimal black & white graphics and unadorned typography. the designs don’t seem to be collected in one place, so you’ll have to poke around his instagram to find them. that lv bag actually looks like something virgil abloh would design — it would sell like hotcakes. dye it millennial pink and you’ve got a freaking worldwide sensation. fashion design is so easy!! (via moss & fog) more about... branding design kunel gaur remix an international eye test chart (circa 1907) posted by jason kottke feb 27, 2020 from the collection of the us national library of medicine, an eye test chart designed by george mayerle around 1907 to be a complete vision testing solution for speakers of several languages. running through the middle of the chart, the seven vertical panels test for acuity of vision with characters in the roman alphabet (for english, german, and other european readers) and also in japanese, chinese, russian, and hebrew. a panel in the center replaces the alphabetic characters with symbols for children and adults who were illiterate or who could not read any of the other writing systems offered. directly above the center panel is a version of the radiant dial that tests for astigmatism. on either side of that are lines that test the muscular strength of the eyes. finally, across the bottom, boxes test for color vision, a feature intended especially (according to one advertisement) for those working on railroads and steamboats. mayerle was a german optometrist working in san francisco when he made the chart, designing it for use in a city with a diverse population. my pals at 20x200 are offering limited-edition prints of mayerle’s chart in a variety of sizes. see also the history & typography of eye test charts, optician sans (a font based on eye chart typography), and eye charts for drones. more about... design george mayerle medicine typography face id compatible respirator masks posted by jason kottke feb 17, 2020 this site is making n95 respirator masks that work with facial recognition software, so that, for example, you can unlock your phone while still wearing a mask. after uploading your face, we use computational mapping to convert your facial features into an image printed onto the surface of n95 surgical masks without distortion. our printer uses inks made of natural dyes. it’s non-toxic and doesn’t affect breathability. you can use your mask for everyday life as a barrier for airborne particle droplets. it is unclear whether these will actually ship or not — “q: is this a joke? a: yes. no. we’re not sure.” — but they’re definitely not planning to make them while there are mask shortages related to covid-19. and it appears the masks will work with iphones…you just add a new face (while wearing the mask) to your phone’s face database. more about... design medicine telephony the sleep blanket posted by jason kottke feb 12, 2020 over a period of three months, seung lee knit a blanket showing a visualization of his infant son’s sleep patterns from birth to his first birthday. the sleep data was collected with the babyconnect app which lets you export to csv. the csvs were filtered and converted into json (using google apps script and python) which could then be used for visualization and tracking. brilliant. this deservedly made flowing data’s list of the best data visualization projects of 2019. see also global warming blankets and this train delay scarf. more about... design infoviz seung lee shake: a typeface with parkinson’s disease posted by jason kottke feb 01, 2020 shake is a typeface made from the real handwriting of a person living with parkinson’s disease. creative director morten halvorsen: my mother was diagnosed with parkinson’s eight years ago. and her handwriting has changed in the years since. i created this font to preserve her handwriting, and enable her to continue to write with her own letters. a new version of the font will be available each year to capture his mother’s worsening condition. donate a few dollars (or more!) to download the font — all proceeds go to finding a cure. you can also download a template so that you can document the handwriting of a loved one living with parkinson’s — for a fee (donated to parkinson’s research), halvorsen will turn it into a font for you. (thx, kevin) more about... design medicine morten halvorsen parkinson’s disease typography a collection of children’s school notebooks from around the world posted by jason kottke jan 22, 2020 for the past 15 years, the folks at the exercise book archive have been compiling a collection of children’s school notebooks from around the world. in the extensive digital archive, you can find writings, drawings, and aimless doodling in exercise books from as far back as 1773 from countries like the us, ghana, latvia, brazil, and finland. the exercise book archive is an ever-growing, participatory archive of old exercise books that allows everyone to discover the history, education, and daily life of children and youth of the past through this unique material. the archive includes hundreds of exercise books from more than 30 different countries and dated from the late 1700s to the early 2000s. it is preserved and managed by the milan-based npo quaderni aperti (literally, open exercise books). if you follow them on instagram, they are pulling some interesting pieces out of the archive. and if you happen to have any old exercise books from your youth (or your parents’ or grandparents’ youth) lying around, you can donate them to the cause. more about... design education how to please elise posted by jason kottke jan 19, 2020 christoph niemann with a clever take on the beethoven composition for piano, für elise. he’s offering it as a letterpress print — but supplies are low so order quick if you want one. and according to niemann, the chart has been factchecked and is accurate. more about... christoph niemann design infoviz ludwig van beethoven music official posters for the tokyo 2020 olympic and paralympic games posted by jason kottke jan 16, 2020 wow, check out the official posters for the tokyo 2020 olympic and paralympic games. what an amazing array of styles and disciplines — there’s manga, shodo (calligraphy), cubism, photography, surrealism, and ukiyo-e. that stunning poster at the top is from tomoko konoike — fantastic. as you can see, posters from past olympics have tended towards the literal, with more straightforward depictions of sports, the rings, stadiums, etc. kudos to the organizers of the tokyo games for casting their net a little wider. love it. (via sidebar) more about... 2020 summer games art design japan olympic games tomoko konoike hand-painted movie posters from ghana in the 80s & 90s posted by jason kottke jan 13, 2020 in order to drum up business for local movie theaters in africa (most notably in ghana), theater owners would commission local artists to paint movie posters. when frank armah began painting posters for ghanaian movie theaters in the mid-1980s, he was given a clear mandate: sell as many tickets as possible. if the movie was gory, the poster should be gorier (skulls, blood, skulls dripping blood). if it was sexy, make the poster sexier (breasts, lots of them, ideally at least watermelon-sized). and when in doubt, throw in a fish. or don’t you remember the human-sized red fish lunging for james bond in the spy who loved me? “the goal was to get people excited, curious, to make them want to see more,” he says. and if the movie they saw ended up surprisingly light on man-eating fish and giant breasts? so be it. “often we hadn’t even seen the movies, so these posters were based on our imaginations,” he says. “sometimes the poster ended up speaking louder than the movie.” you can check out more of these amazing artworks in this twitter thread, this bbc story, on the aiga site, and at poster house, which has an exhibition of these posters up through feb 16. update: i removed this modern-day spoof of the ghanaian posters from the post. the tell is the reference to this amazing gif. (thx, erik) more about... art design ghana movies world underwater posted by jason kottke jan 10, 2020 inspired by a trip to venice, the world’s most prominent example of what life could be like in many of our coastal cities in the years to come, hayden williams made a series of 3d rendered images showing what our world might look like underwater. (via the morning news) more about... art design global warming hayden williams nyc subway ridgeline maps of the world posted by jason kottke jan 08, 2020 using andrei kashcha’s peak map tool, you can create what’s called a ridgeline chart — picture the album cover for joy division’s unknown pleasures — of the elevation anywhere on the earth. try it out here. (via @eramirez) more about... andrei kashcha design infoviz joy division maps flowing data’s best data visualizations of 2019 posted by jason kottke jan 07, 2020 nathan yau of flowing data picked his ten favorite data visualization projects for 2019. all the projects listed are worth a look … but maybe, just maybe, this post is really just an excuse to let my eyes feast upon scott reinhard’s historic topographic maps once again. designer scott reinhard takes old geological survey maps and combines them with elevation data to produce these wonderful hybrid topographic maps. from top to bottom, here are reinhard’s 3d versions of a 1878 usgs yellowstone map, a 1904 usgs map of acadia national park, and a 1899 usgs map of the grand tetons. more about... best of best of 2019 design infoviz lists nathan yau scott reinhard shampoo packaged in “bottles” made of soap posted by jason kottke dec 18, 2019 product designer jonna breitenhuber has come up with an interesting way to get rid of plastic shampoo and body wash containers: by packaging the liquids in bottles made of slow-dissolving soap. soapbottle is a packaging made from soap. as the content within is being used, the soap packaging very gradually dissolves. when finished, remnants can be used again, as hand soap or processed into detergents. soap is made of natural ingredients and is biodegradable: waste can be completely avoided. you can see soapbottle in action here: i love that you open the bottle by cutting the corner off with a knife. see also biodegradable food containers inspired by egg shells & orange peels. (via moss & fog) more about... design jonna breitenhuber video beautiful news daily posted by jason kottke nov 27, 2019 each day since the beginning of october, the team of designers, technologists, and researchers at beautiful news daily (a project by information is beautiful) have been posting infographics and data visualizations that share some good news about the world. the site’s tagline is “unseen trends, uplifting stats, creative solutions”. the bad news we see everyday on news websites, newspaper front pages, and magazine covers is important (or can be, if it’s not designed to keep people frightened and hooked on the news), but the good news is just as significant (or can be, if it doesn’t cause you to forget the world’s true suffering and turmoil). you can keep up with beautiful news via their website, their weekly newsletter, or twitter & instagram. (via moss & fog) more about... design infoviz renderings of our dystopian pop culture future posted by jason kottke nov 20, 2019 for more than 11 years for a series he calls everydays, mike winkelmann (aka beeple) has been making a daily picture. as you might expect from the breakneck pace, some of them aren’t that interesting (there’s a lot of juvenile stuff here tbh), but my favorite ones are the black mirror-ish with decayed or repurposed pop cultural references. you can view more of winkelmann’s work on behance, tumblr, and his website. (via dense discovery) more about... design illustration mike winkelmann pokemon toy story the hippie aesthetic of the 60s is “art nouveau on acid” posted by jason kottke nov 19, 2019 i had somehow never registered this before, but it was (ridiculously) obvious once it was pointed out to me in this video: the psychedelic design of music posters in the 60s were inspired in part by the art nouveau movement of the late 1800s. for instance, here’s an absinthe advertisement from the 1890s and a 1966 pink floyd poster. “you can draw a straight line between art nouveau and psychedelic rock posters,” martin hohn, president of the rock poster society, says. “mucha, jules chéret, aubrey beardsley. borrow from everything. the world is your palette. it was all meant to be populist art. it was always meant to be disposable.” he later adds: “what the artists were saying graphically was the same thing the rock bands were saying musically.” more about... art design music video life in miniature posted by jason kottke nov 19, 2019 delph miniatures is a small company that makes what they call “modern miniatures”, 1/12th scale miniatures of everyday things like washing machines, ironing boards, and mobility scooters. ellen evans’ short documentary about the miniatures and the mother/daughter team who make them is completely delightful; i love everything about these women and their work. they make contemporary miniatures because they want to represent our culture as it is right now and not as it was back in victorian or elizabethan times. our inspiration is not in resource books or museums, but physically around us, all the time, in our homes, in the shops of our home city, bradford, and in the lives of our friends and family. we love creating something different and modern that someone wants. in this way our range has expanded as people have asked for more new things. ideas are all around us. you may be living in a victorian house but you still have your tv, your microwave, and your computer. just look at this meticulous work by kath holden and margaret shaw — the attention to detail is inspiring: yes, that’s a wee condom and its wrapper, which delph assures us is made of actual latex and “the correct size diameter scaled down of a standard condom”. you can buy your own here for £8.58. the mobility scooter is £77.81 and you can buy everything you need to make a mini beauty salon right here, including a “free wifi” sign and dome-type security camera. shop the rest of their store here..so many good things! (via the morning news) more about... delph miniatures design ellen evans video logos of video game consoles from 1976 to the present posted by jason kottke nov 14, 2019 reagan ray has collected the logos of video game consoles from 1976 to the present. he ignores the first generation of consoles because there would have been too many to include. (historical interlude: i didn’t know gaming consoles were broken down into generations. apparently we’re in the 8th generation now — wii u, ps4, xbox one, and switch.) see also ray’s collections of classic airline logos, record label logos, 80s action figure logos, american car logos, etc.. more about... design logos reagan ray video games a fresh look for the atlantic posted by jason kottke nov 13, 2019 the atlantic launched a new visual identity the other day, complete with a new logo, custom typeface, updated website, and ios app. here’s the first cover carrying the new look: the effort was led by peter mendelsund and his senior art director oliver munday. you can hear the pair talk a bit about their process here: and more from mendelsund in this conversation with editor-in-chief jeffrey goldberg: my favorite kind of design is a kind of time-released design, where you look at something and you have an immediate impression of it, and then you, upon further reflection, find something in the design that adds to or subverts that first impression. really nice work and methodology behind it. hearing designers talk about how they approach their work always makes me miss practicing design on a daily basis, a former vocation of mine that seems very very far away these days. more about... design jeffrey goldberg magazines oliver munday peter mendelsund the atlantic video posters as gateways to a more expansive world posted by patrick tanguay nov 04, 2019 while we’re on the world building topic, here’s another article on design within games, this one about the posters used in the upcoming control and the polish cyberpunk-horror game observer. alongside various made up advertisements, brands, book covers and propaganda signs, posters are symbolic of a larger universe, helping to broaden and flesh out any fictional world. an incredible amount of effort is put into creating video game settings, and the poster is but one of many tiny details carefully designed to draw you deeper. the designers for both games were able to research the vast number of posters of different periods and locations to inform their own creations. “posters were a great tool for us to build a story and establish the world design. in one way, they show how this future world is organised, the rules of it etc. but they also represent the protagonist’s various dilemmas,” lenart explains. “if done right, [the posters] can help convey everything from small trivial details to the broader story arc. these aspects enrich and deepen the lore and the world.” more about... design games death stranding’s world building intersects with fashion and design posted by patrick tanguay nov 04, 2019 can’t say i’m much of a gamer but i like when things intersect in interesting ways and the launch of hideo kojima’s death stranding is one of those times. this is a huge launch with lots and lots of coverage, you’ll probably be seeing it everywhere. the gamesport review, which gives a great idea of the look and gameplay, is above and here’s more of what it’s about, from the review at the verge: death stranding takes place in a distant future, one that has been ravaged by a largely unexplained phenomenon called the death stranding. it wiped out cities and almost all life while opening a gate between the worlds of the living and dead. those ghostly bts haunt forests and mountains, and certain humans called repatriates are able to return to life from a strange underwater space known as the seam. sam, played by norman reedus, is one of these repatriates. he’s also something of a post-apocalyptic delivery man, shuttling supplies from one settlement to the next. early in the game, he’s given a particularly ambitious task: reunite america (now known as the uca, or united cities of america) by traveling across the country, connecting settlements to a sort of internet-like network. at the same time, sam is trying to reach the west coast of the country to rescue his sister who has been captured by a terrorist organization. david erlich at indiewire is calling it the best video game movie ever made. massive, moody, and — as usual for the video game auteur — weird as hell. the open-world experience has enough contemplative moments to make it feel like a “grand theft auto” sequel directed by andrei tarkovsky, and it’s the greatest achievement yet from the most eccentric and forward-thinking designer of a medium in which virtually every large-scale project is created by committee. but what i’d like to draw your attention to is where kojima’s vision intersects with fashion and design. as ryan epps says at thegamer, death stranding is a tangled web of designer collaborations. kojima not only intends on reshaping the landscape of conventional open-world gaming (and redefining the meaning of genre itself), but has his eyes set on revolutionizing narrative design and video game cinematography by way of listless immersion. the motorbike is a collaboration with norman reedus’ television show the ride, glasses are designed by french eyewear brand j.f.rey, and some of the better looking clothing is designed by errolson hugh’s acronym. while it edges (perhaps goes over for some) into product placement, it goes further, being co-designed for the game and each informing the other. the collaborations span the globe and form a mix to draw in more fans. as so exemplified by these varied artists, designers, and thinkers, kojima’s project will boast some of the most interesting forms of immersive insight. much like how the gameplay itself finds players drawing the world back together in a time of hardship and desolation, the game’s own creation has been a global project that will, in essence, capture the hearts and minds of so many gamers just by the sheer amount of worldwide influence present in its dna. for my part, the collaboration with acronym ( hypebeast has a few details and pictures about the collaboration ) is especially of interest with hugh’s design already being so adjacent to near-future fiction and cyberpunk aesthetics. according to gq, he sees the future and he has been having this same kind of bidirectional influence with william gibson for years. please dig through some of the links above if you like this aesthetic and keep an eye on these kinds of collaborations in world building, which are bound to multiply and “attach” more domains of gaming, movies, design, and architecture together. more about... design games metro logos of the world posted by jason kottke oct 30, 2019 from metrobits, a fantastic resource for all things to do with metros and subways around the world, comes this collection of metro logos (older page w/ larger logos here). see also metro fonts (names + designers), fare collection schemes, and ratings of the art and architecture of metro stations from around the world (highest marks go to moscow, paris, saint petersburg, and stockholm). the moscow and saint petersburg stations are incredible. more about... design logos subway urban tetris posted by jason kottke oct 30, 2019 from graphic designer mariyan atanasov comes urban tetris, in which apartment buildings in sofia, bulgaria are turned into a massive game of tetris. if you’ve played a bunch of tetris in your life, just looking at these images should trigger the familiar theme song in your head. next: make this actually playable. (via colossal) more about... architecture design mariyan atanasov tetris video games the chic 2024 summer olympics logo posted by jason kottke oct 23, 2019 on oct 21, the emblem for the 2024 summer olympics and paralympics was unveiled in paris, site of the games. it features a round symbol that represents a gold medal, the olympic flame, and marianne, the “national personification of the french republic since the french revolution”. the emblem’s marianne is quite chic, so parisian freelance journalist megan clement concocted a vignette of that young woman’s life. it begins like so: the french olympic logo tumbles out of bed on a parisian morning. she tousles her messy bob, dons breton stripes and ballet flats and whisks down the stairs from her fifth-floor apartment to grab a baguette before enigmatically texting two men who are pursuing her romantically. the french olympic logo has an expresso and a cigarette for lunch. (via @legalnomads) more about... 2024 summer olympics design logos megan clement olympic games an online collection of colorful fruit crate labels, 1920s-1950s posted by jason kottke oct 17, 2019 from the state library of florida comes a collection of more than 600 crate labels used by the citrus and vegetable industries from the 1920s to the 1950s. to help give florida fruits and vegetables an edge, growers looked to the booming produce packing industry in california, where advertisers were already using bold, elaborate labels to catch buyers’ attention. florida companies began designing their wooden shipping crates and paper labels based on this successful model. paper crate labels were used in florida from the late 1800s until the 1950s. the earliest paper labels were fairly generic and often didn’t include a brand name. starting in the 1920s, advertisers began developing more complex marketing strategies, aiming to entice buyers with colorful brand names and imagery. what an amazing variety of design and typographic styles. there’s also some questionable imagery in there as well: mammy brand, dixieland brand, brave vegetables, indian chief, etc. see also the us government’s trove of beautiful apple paintings. (via @john_overholt) more about... advertising design food typography design for the worst posted by jason kottke sep 19, 2019 in why every ceo needs to think like a hacker, stalker, or white nationalist, rob walker argues that products should be designed with their worst potential users in mind. “red teaming” (creating a group with an explicitly adversarial role, to challenge an organization’s strategy or structures) happens in military and intelligence contexts, and even in tech design, when the underlying issue is security or fending off hackers. maybe big digital-centric companies, and small ones that aspire to scale, need a variation that’s not about fending off direct adversaries. imagine instead a sort of black mirror department, devoted to nothing but figuring out how the product can be abused — and thus how to minimize malign misuse. more about... design rob walker a collection of 100 years of us national parks’ graphical ephemera posted by jason kottke aug 22, 2019 from the folks that produced the nyc transit authority graphics standards manual and the nasa standards manual comes a new book, parks, about the art, maps, and printed materials produced to support american’s national parks. from the book’s introduction by lyz nagan-powell: if, as wallace stegner famously declared, the national parks are “america’s best idea,” how can we explore this idea? there is the historical aspect: america invented the concept of nationally owned and operated parks in 1872, when ulysses s. grant signed yellowstone national park into existence. but there is more to stegner’s sentiment than just the invention of the parks. the rest of the quote goes on to say that the parks are “absolutely american, absolutely democratic, they reflect us at our best rather than our worst.” the national parks story isn’t simple or easy. it’s full of splendor and glory, as well as greed and exploitation. for every person who loves one of the parks like it’s their own home, there is another who resents the federal government for owning it. even before yellowstone became the first national park, park history was fraught with tension. tension between preservation and use, between indigenous people and white explorers, between local rights and federal oversight, between wild freedom and human control, between park purists and park recreationists, and between commercial exploitation and historic value. with this tense backdrop, or maybe because of it, art, imagery, writing, and design have played a vital role in the history of the national parks. compelling creative materials that celebrated the land — including books, paintings, performances, and advertisements — have marked developments and milestones. these items have brought the rich landscapes and their scientific and historical significance to life. perhaps together, the tension and celebration make the national park system - parks, monuments, natural areas, historic sites, and more - the perfect embodiment of america itself, and what the “best idea” of the parks is really all about. parks is out in october but you can pre-order it now. more about... books design parks le corbuffet posted by jason kottke aug 20, 2019 le corbuffet was a series of performances by artist esther choi that sought to bring together food with notable artists and designers, along with a healthy dose of puns. a cookbook based on the project will be out in october: le corbuffet: edible art and design classics. here’s the page for quiche haring: other dishes include rhubarbara kruger compote, shigeru banchan two ways, yokonomiyaki, rem brûlée, and the robert rauschenburger. here’s the full menu/table of contents: says choi about where the idea for the project came from: in 2014, i stumbled across an elaborate menu crafted by lászló moholy-nagy. the multi-panelled bill of fare was for a dinner held in tribute to the bauhaus founder and architect, walter gropius, in 1937. inspired by the menu for gropius’s dinner, and the questions that it raised about the elitism of cultural production, i decided to conduct a social experiment a year later. more about... art books design esther choi food le corbuffet older posts kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives