home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. we and the color home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style home recommendations books design{h}ers: a celebration of women in design today design{h}ers: a celebration of women in design today recommendations books design design{h}ers: a celebration of women in design today reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email design{h}ers, a book by publishing house viction:ary that celebrates the creativity of women in today’s world of design. to be honest, we are a bit late for international women’s day 2020. anyway, books on the creative achievements of women in the design industry can be featured all year round. design(h)ers is a publication by viction:ary that serves as a great showcase of outstanding talent spanning across a variety of design fields and mediums. on 256 pages, the book celebrates the distinction and eye-catching diversity that women bring to their respective creative fields. filled with lots of compelling stories and highly creative work, the book is meant to inspire the creatives of today and the future. whether for your own or as a present for students or established graphic designers, this fine publication is both aesthetically beautiful and well written. for further information, just click on the following link or have a look at the images below. purchase at amazon. design{h}ers: a celebration of women in design today design{h}ers: a celebration of women in design today purchase at amazon. all images © by publishing house viction:ary. do not hesitate to browse through our book category to find other literature dedicated to both students and creative professionals. in addition, you can find a wide range of creative work in our design category. subscribe to our newsletter! by continuing, you accept the privacy policy no ratings yet. please rate this article. rate here: tags book books design graphic design reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email dirk petzold of course, we are on instagram: @weandthecolor :) related articlesmore from author branding bloom branding by graphic design studio violaine & jeremy design meltdown flags — raising awareness of global warming branding flower poster designs by xavier esclusa trias branding 100 geometric vector shapes design covid-19 quarantine: what to do to stay creatively motivated during isolation branding pernix consulting—stationery design by monotypo studio branding branding & graphic design by darling visual communications for twig learning center branding adobe indesign brand guidelines template branding scale ai branding by creative agency sid lee leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. current ye@r * leave this field empty email by continuing, you accept the privacy policy editor picks 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 top graphic designers on instagram to follow for creative inspiration popular posts central park infrared/aerochrome photos i am an actor by franck bohbot lane coder – underwater photography popular category design4038 graphic design2565 recommendations1479 branding1427 illustration1384 fonts895 photography892 art880 templates548 about us we and the color is a web magazine for your daily art and design inspiration. we feature outstanding projects of various creative fields. in addition, you can find trendy graphics, templates, and fonts for download. read more here. contact us: meandyou@weandthecolor.com follow us legal information privacy advertisement © copyright 2019 we and the color – all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. by continuing, you are agreeing to our terms of use.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled