products pricing about webinars start your free trial log in resources listen to breaking brand — our new podcast! 🎧 open search form listen to breaking brand — our new podcast! 🎧 may we suggest... buffer news case studies design news and trends online marketing opinion pinterest social media marketing the science of social media design design the ideal image sizes for your social media posts: guidelines for all 7 major social networks ideal social media image size summary looking for more details for a particular social platform? click on one of the platforms below to jump to... read more bufferchat design tips for non-designers: a #bufferchat recap this week in #bufferchat, we shared our best design tips and tricks for the non-designers among us. we were joined by kareya saleh from yelling mule as... read more design why every marketer in 2018 needs to be a (part-time) designer: 52 design terms and tips to level-up in 2018, it’s become obvious and even necessary for all of us marketers to have some at least basic design knowledge. here are 52 tips... read more design how to create engaging images for social media: a simple guide for non-designers a great social media marketer today and an awesome advertiser in the 1960s have much in common. david ogilvy, the father of advertising, was famous... read more design how to keep your social media images looking fresh (even if you’re posting every day) consistently posting high-quality content is the lifeblood of a great social media strategy. but it’s easier said than done. not only do you have to... read more design 47 amazingly talented artists and designers to follow on instagram there you are, hunched over your laptop trying with all your might to write a catchy headline or design an engaging graphic…and you’re feeling stuck.... read more bufferchat developing a design mindset: a bufferchat recap one of buffer’s awesome product designers, steve dixon, joined us in the #bufferchat this week to talk about what it means to develop a design mindset! we discussed... read more design the best typography, colors, and templates used in the highest-converting social media images if you’ve been looking to supercharge your social media strategy, you probably know a lot about the benefits of using images. but, how much do you... read more design how to create shareworthy twitter images: 10 ways to maximize engagement on your tweets for gaining more engagement, clicks, retweets, and replies, twitter images work. it’s why we created pablo—a simple way to create social media images in under... read more design 23 tools and resources to create images for social media update – we launched pablo a new tool to create beautiful images for your social media posts in under 30 seconds you can use pablo right from the... read more bufferchat the best tools and sources for visuals in social media: a #bufferchat recap social media is getting more and more visual. we just can’t get enough photos, videos, gifs, infographics, and charts. it’s something we’ve blogged about before and certainly... read more about us our team feedback contact us tweet @ us press faq guides & tutorials case studies webinars what is social media marketing? the pro plan buffer for business buffer for nonprofits pricing pablo image creator iphone & ipad app android app browser extension apps & extras © 2020 buffer inc. we're hiring hi there, we use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience and to analyze site traffic. by continuing to use our website, you consent to the use of these cookies. learn more. got it