detailed seo blog (50k+ subs) industry rankings (updated every 24h) seo extension (6,000+ users) seo blueprint (private course) detailed seo blog (50k+ subs) industry rankings (updated every 24h) seo extension (6,000+ users) seo blueprint (private course) search for: search detailed.com user privacy policy. updated 2018 we take your privacy seriously. “those who don’t care about privacy should pull down their pants and share their phone password”. at detailed, one of our main priorities is the privacy of our visitors. this privacy policy document contains types of information that is collected and recorded by https://detailed.com and how we use it. if you have additional questions or require more information about our privacy policy, do not hesitate to contact us through email at support@detailed.com. log files https://detailed.com follows a standard procedure of using log files. these files log visitors when they visit websites. all hosting companies do this and a part of hosting services’ analytics. the information collected by log files include internet protocol (ip) addresses, browser type, internet service provider (isp), date and time stamp, referring/exit pages, and possibly the number of clicks. these are not linked to any information that is personally identifiable. the purpose of the information is for analyzing trends, administering the site, tracking users’ movement on the website, and gathering demographic information. cookies and web beacons like any other website, https://detailed.com uses ‘cookies’. these cookies are used to store information including visitors’ preferences, and the pages on the website that the visitor accessed or visited. the information is used to optimize the users’ experience by customizing our web page content based on visitors’ browser type and/or other information. our advertising partners some of advertisers on our site may use cookies and web beacons. privacy policies you may consult this list to find the privacy policy for each of the advertising partners of https://detailed.com. third-party ad servers or ad networks uses technologies like cookies, javascript, or web beacons that are used in their respective advertisements and links that appear on https://detailed.com, which are sent directly to users’ browser. they automatically receive your ip address when this occurs. these technologies are used to measure the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns and/or to personalize the advertising content that you see on websites that you visit. note that https://detailed.com has no access to or control over these cookies that are used by third-party advertisers. third part privacy policies https://detailed.com’s privacy policy does not apply to other advertisers or websites. thus, we are advising you to consult the respective privacy policies of these third-party ad servers for more detailed information. it may include their practices and instructions about how to opt-out of certain options. you may find a complete list of these privacy policies and their links here: privacy policy links. you can choose to disable cookies through your individual browser options. to know more detailed information about cookie management with specific web browsers, it can be found at the browsers’ respective websites. what are cookies? children’s information another part of our priority is adding protection for children while using the internet. we encourage parents and guardians to observe, participate in, and/or monitor and guide their online activity. https://detailed.com does not knowingly collect any personal identifiable information from children under the age of 13. if you think that your child provided this kind of information on our website, we strongly encourage you to contact us immediately and we will do our best efforts to promptly remove such information from our records. online privacy policy only this privacy policy applies only to our online activities and is valid for visitors to our website with regards to the information that they shared and/or collect in https://detailed.com. this policy is not applicable to any information collected offline or via channels other than this website. consent by using our website, you hereby consent to our privacy policy and agree to its terms and conditions. get advanced seo tips we don't make public join subscribers from companies like amazon, ibm & cisco. website "if you’re looking to skill up in actually getting sites to rank, allsopp’s content is a must read." - matthew howells-barby, popular analysis how 16 companies dominate google search results 475 advanced link building strategies 307 51 profitable seo niches 232 affiliate seo in 2020: a 1,000 keyword analysis 181 industry rankings top 50 (all niches) finance food marketing travel view all seo extension (6,000+ users) we now have a supercharged seo extension for chrome that’s 100% free and always will be. join 6,000+ users. exclusive seo program seo blueprint is our own fully fledged seo framework and exclusive community focused on taking search engine rankings to the next level. home about blog privacy policy contact detailed copyright detailed, 2020. powered by nzt-48.