subscribe by email rss life in leggings a healthy lifestyle blog home about contact family work out with me faqs press disclaimer recipes breakfast lunch snacks dinner & entrees desserts & sweets soups & stews drinks & smoothies vegetarian fitness cardio workouts circuit workouts nasm & study guides running & race recaps workout playlists weekly workouts sponsor reviews favorites friday favorites beauty health fitness blogging tutorials & videos dance highlights & faqs coffee talks travel orlando & florida detroit & michigan wedding detroit & michigan welcome to our new home city and state in the mitten! scott and i moved up to the metro detroit area of michigan in october 2012. like many of you visiting this page, we weren’t quite sure what to think of detroit before we moved here for work. while it doesn’t have the best reputation, it is a pretty cool (and safe) place to frequent. promise! detroit is the largest city located on the united states-canada border. also known as motown, the motor city, hockeytown, and the d, it’s a vibrant city with tons of fun things to do and places to visit. after taking a couple of trips downtown, scott and i quickly realized why people from the city of detroit love it so much. it’s got a little bit of everything for everyone. here are some highlights of things we’ve done so far! detroit things to do: • midtown • greektown • fox theatre • motown museum – hitsville u.s.a. • campus martius park (detroit’s city beach) • detroit riverfront • detroit institute of arts museum places to eat: • slow’s bar-b-q (a must try!) • gold cash gold (used to be a pawn shop, great atmosphere) • green dot stables • the grille • the whitney (a haunted mansion!) • fountain bistro (campus martius park) • good girls go to paris (crêpes) • pizza papalis chicago pizza • bucharest grille (and another visit!) • american coney & lafayette coney island (famous restaurant rivals) coffee/desserts/drinks: • great lakes coffee roasting company • astoria bakery • sugar house (speakeasy) i often receive emails and messages about what i would suggest anyone visiting the area to check out. scott and i live in rochester hills, which is just about 30 minutes west of detroit. we love exploring our area and have slowly made our way all over the state. below you will find some of my suggestions and highlights! one thing michigan is known for is cider mills. i love visiting any that i can in the few short months they open in the fall. any time someone comes to visit during cider mill season, you better believe we will be making a stop for hot cider, donuts, and apples! here are the cider mills we’ve been to: • blake’s orchard & cider mill, haunted blake’s hay ride & haunted houses • franklin cider mill • miller’s big red cider mill & apple orchard • parmenter’s northville cider mill & winery • rochester cider mill • yates cider mill do you like sporting events? might i suggest going to a: • detroit tigers game • detroit red wings game • detroit pistons game • detroit lions game feeling adventurous? grab your passport and drive over the bridge or under the tunnel to canada! winsor, ontario is located directly across the river from downtown detroit. we have crossed the border several times since moving up here! and before we dive into it, check out my very favorite restaurants for brunch in the metro detroit area. if you ever come to visit us, it’s highly likely that you’ll end up at one (or several) of these places. so good! here are some of our other whereabouts and cities in michigan we have visited that i have documented along the way! ann arbor things to do: • u of m football game places to eat: • jolly pumpkin • café zola auburn hills things to do: • great lakes crossing outlet mall places to eat: • bar louie • buddy’s pizza • ciccarellis 22 sports bar • sweets ice cream, baked goods & café birmingham things to do: • somerset collection (mall) • birmingham 8 movie theater (historic landmark built in 1927!) • booth park places to eat: • toast • social • mad hatter bistro, bar & tea room • commonwealth café • the bird & the bread • hyde park prime steakhouse • elie’s mediterranean grill/bar • luxe • the melting pot • the triple nickel • greek islands coney island bloomfield hills places to eat: • mex • beau’s clarkston things to do: • shopping on main street places to eat: • union woodshop dearborn things to do: • henry ford museum farmington hills places to eat: • café cortina ferndale places to eat: • local kitchen & bar • the fly trap • the oakland speakeasy frankenmuth things to do: • walk along main street • frankenmuth taffy kitchen places to eat: • bavarian inn restaurant & castle shops • zendher’s holland things to do: boating on lake michigan places to eat: the biscuit holly things to do: • skiing at mt. holly madison heights & clawson things to do: • planet rock climbing gym & training center places to eat: • mojave cantina • black lotus brewery lake orion things to do: • orion oaks park (dog park and dog dock too!) • canterbury village places to eat: • sagebrush cantina (one of our favs!) • krus & muer roadhouse rochester/rochester hills things to do: • see the downtown rochester lights! (november – january) • meadow brook hall • main street billiards places to eat: • the meeting house • rochester brunch house • sumo sushi & seafood • hibachi house grill & bar • east side mario’s • penny black’s • rochester mills brewing co. • o’connor’s public house coffee/desserts: • dessert oasis (so good!) royal oak things to do: • shopping on main street • royal oak farmer’s market • royal oak music theatre • the great escape room (a real-life escape challenge!) • five 15 drag queen bingo (hilarious outing for open-minded people!) • arts, beats & eats festival (oakland county’s favorite summer festival) places to eat: • vinsetta garage • cantina diablo’s • trattoria da luigi • cocoa tree café (vegan) • lily’s seafood shelby township things to do: • stoney creek metropark (and again) spring hill things to do: • camping and outdoor activities at spring hill • more camping and outdoor activities at spring hill traverse city (and surrounding cities) things to do: • pyramid point (about ten minutes outside of the city, but the best view of lake michigan!) • leland (historic district & fishtown) • van’s beach • wineries: chateau grand traverse, brys estate vineyard & winery, and bowers harbor vineyard places to eat: • mackinaw brewing company • north peak brewing company troy things to do: • airtime trampoline & game park places to eat: • camp ticonderoga • mon jin lau welcome follow facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter follow search stay in the loop with newsletter updates and exclusive promotions! email address: categories categories select category anniversaries appetizers aspen & cali auditions baby bachelorette party baking barre beauty beautycounter bible quotes blogging blue diamond books breakfast bridal party bridal shower broadway bucket list budget cardio casseroles causes celebrations charities chicken circuit training classes classpass coffee talk coffee talks & thoughts concerts conferences countdowns cpt culture dance day in the life decor desserts detroit dining in michigan dinner diy entertainment faith fall family faqs fashion fashion favorites fitness fitness fashion food friday favorites gifts giveaways grocery hauls group fitness guest posts hair hair & beauty tips half marathon training halloween health healthy eating holiday gift guides holidays home honeymoon interviews lean beef lil baby lil giveaway week lil workout wednesdays looking back lunch makeup mimm motivation moving nails nasm new jersey new york new york city news no bake recipes on-the-go organization orlando pastas photo dump pregnancy press projects q&a races random thoughts and things recipe recaps recipes reviews roadie round-ups running salads scott side dishes skin smoothies snacks soups sponsored sports spring stitch fix summer surveys thanksgiving things i’ve learned in my 30s thinking out loud thought of the day training travel turkey tutorials uncategorized vegan vegetarian vendors videos wedding wedding hints wedding recaps weddings weekend in photos weekly workouts wiaw winter words of wisdom workout roundups workouts yoga twitter tweets by @lifenleggings pinterest copyright © 2020 · foodie child theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in copyright © life in leggings 2020 | designed by murnan creative