diary - the accidental smallholder we provide help, support and advice for smallholders and aspiring smallholders more about us / contact us sign-in / register search home livestock vegetables fruit smallholding food & craft shop gallery diary events forum you are here » home » diary diary fences / poultry / covid19 monday 23 march, 2020 by rosemary at 2:26pm in smallholding 0 comments add your own monday 16th march frosty first thing, then sunny and windy, finally damp and windy. tara and i rode euro and smokey. they were awful but it seems that, however awful they are, i still feel better for having ridden. the tractor mechanic man came down this morning, surveyed the poorly john deere and said that he could fix her. dan just has to get the parts, which isn’t proving straightforward. still, progress nevertheless. read more on fences / poultry / covid19 lambing / fencing / groundwork monday 16 march, 2020 by rosemary at 2:12pm in smallholding 0 comments add your own monday 9th march beautiful morning – starting to feel like spring has sprung. until lunchtime, after which winter came back. took the last of the tup lambs to the abattoir this morning. never my favourite job. on the more positive side, i collected my new sheepskin tanned by peter ananin at woodland tannery. it’s beautiful. steven is getting on with the digger work – should be finished tomorrow. looking good. read more on lambing / fencing / groundwork rushes / pruning / digger monday 9 march, 2020 by rosemary at 5:15pm in smallholding 0 comments add your own monday 2nd march i’ve been thinking about folk not joining organisations. i’m involved with a couple of voluntary organisations and i give talks at others and many are struggling. wonder why it is. has social media given us the feeling that we are joined through that? i saw one vol org celebrating because they had 2000 members – no, they don’t. they have 2000 folk who have clicked a button to “like” their facebook page. it’s not the same. i find it quite sad. read more on rushes / pruning / digger haybell / zephyr / sale monday 2 march, 2020 by rosemary at 5:02pm in smallholding 0 comments add your own monday 24th february it’s less windy than it’s been; that’s the only good bit. otherwise, it’s grey and sleeting. so having a day in the office is just dandy. the man from coventry fencing came to have a look at some work we want done, with a view to giving us a quote. normally dan does all the fencing but he’s so busy with webby work, the list is getting longer. the farmer we buy our hay from is probably going to do the ground works arising from the septic tank affair. read more on haybell / zephyr / sale beehives / ponies / mud monday 24 february, 2020 by rosemary at 2:58pm in smallholding 1 comment add your own monday 17th february very windy overnight; dan’s bee hives took a bit of a battering – two fell over. one was the weak colony which wasn’t expected to survive the winter but the other was strong colony. hopefully, it will be ok. other than that, just spare deer netting blown around. i went for hay, then did various chores like shopping, bank, post office, then worked in the office. we had a visit from our new knitting tutor. very excited to be offering knitting workshops here at dalmore croft. read more on beehives / ponies / mud ciara / desmond monday 17 february, 2020 by rosemary at 5:29pm in smallholding 0 comments add your own monday 10th february jings, it might be past the first day of spring but we’ve had four seasons in one day, today. wind, rain, frost and sunshine – never a dull one. picked up two loads of hay this morning then into dundee to pick up the newly serviced lawnmower and hedge trimmer. the lawnmower might be better with flotation tyres. on my key project, i popped into the mitsubishi dealer – the remote locking on one of the two keys wasn’t working – and the nice man put a new battery in each key and didn’t charge me anything. good service from richard lawson mitsubishi! and the new tractor key arrived in the post today, so once all the labelling was done, i consider project key to be complete. read more on ciara / desmond tank / ewes / keys monday 10 february, 2020 by rosemary at 2:01pm in smallholding 0 comments add your own monday 27th january glorious sunny day, but cold. blizzard still lame so got the vet out again; the antibiotic given last week is long-acting, so she’s had a second dose of metacam to keep her comfy while the ab works. typically, she actually looked a bit better by the time the vet arrived. ewe no14 is also lame, so we washed her foot, stood her in milton and sprayed with alamycin spray. finally, there’s some positive progress with the septic tank. the field looks like a set from “1917” but it will heal. read more on tank / ewes / keys trailer / blizzard / pump monday 27 january, 2020 by rosemary at 11:17am in smallholding 0 comments add your own monday 20th january lovely day and i had a lovely drive up to brechin to drop the livestock trailer in for a service and to have the electrics repaired after a pig ate them last year. what a beautiful country scotland is. the day started with zenith the calf getting loose – my fault for not securing the gate. she was very excited and freaked euro out with her carrying on. i had to take gwenna back to the vet – she is better but not sound yet. couldn’t find my credit card so called the helpline to suspend it – operator asked, “when did you last use it?” “asda petrol on friday,” i said. “oh,” she said,” there’s a vetnow charge!” aha, it was on the floor of john and linda’s car, from yesterday. read more on trailer / blizzard / pump ponies / scanner / dogs monday 20 january, 2020 by rosemary at 5:18pm in smallholding 1 comment add your own monday 13th january nice early on, becoming wet and windy as storm brendan strikes. trips to harbro and for hay then into the office for the rest of the day – so many invoices and emails to be dealt with. tuesday 14th january dry and windy; put a new bale of hay in for the ewes. wednesday 15th january gillian the scanner here this morning at 7.30am. the ryelands and shetlands all came in fine; the bfl, not so much. ended up penning them against the gate back into sheepfold. dan has decreed that they are to be sold. i can’t disagree – although i love the look of them, they’re bonkers. the only bfl to be tupped is empty as is bambi and no2 – as expected. read more on ponies / scanner / dogs afternoon tea / ponying smokey / zenith monday 13 january, 2020 by rosemary at 4:10pm in smallholding 0 comments add your own monday 6th january windy but very mild, becoming colder later with light rain. office day, but baked a banana, honey and walnut loaf for sunday. tuesday 7th january mild and rainy; not as windy as forecast, drying up and some sunny spells. dealt with more paperwork – dallying it doesn’t make it go away, sadly. started working with zenith; she’s a spooky wee thing. read more on afternoon tea / ponying smokey / zenith diary categories agriculture anything goes bees brewing & winemaking cats cattle composting dogs equines equipment & machinery fencing food processing gardening general livestock grassland management growing home & garden land orchard pigs poultry recipes renovation sheep shows and sales smallholding soil sustainability tas website wildlife diary archives 2020 march february january 2019 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2018 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2017 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2016 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2015 december november june may april march february january 2014 december november october august july june may april march february january 2013 december november september august july june may april march february january 2012 december november september august july june may april march february january 2011 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2010 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2009 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2008 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2007 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2006 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2005 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2004 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2003 december contact dalmore, station road, barry, angus. dd7 7rs. telephone: 01241 859108 mobile: 07986 451129 email: rosemary@accidentalsmallholder.net gallery more photos who is the accidental smallholder? hello, i'm rosemary champion, aka the accidental smallholder. i'm a smallholder in the east of scotland and started this website to help other people who are interested in smallholding to find their way, and to share my experiences. © the accidental smallholder ltd 2003-2020. all rights reserved. privacy policy accessibility copyright terms and conditions report a problem sign-in design by furness internet site developed by champion is