get dick’s free columns and videos! articles daily videos 2020 election alert 50 shades of politics history videos petitions book store archives articles lunch alert videos history videos advertising contact sign the petition demanding biden take a dementia test — click here! article to left of video four senators put their greed first by dick morris on march 20, 2020 republican sens. richard burr of north carolina, kelly loeffler of georgia and jim inhofe of oklahoma and democratic sen. diane feinstein of california each cashed in on the national disaster of the coronavirus by selling massive amounts of stock as the crisis unfolded. get the full story — click here! continue reading… promotion slider – join me for lunch join me for lunch: 6 give new york the money it needs – lunch alert! give new york the money it needs – lunch alert! trump is right…we can reopen parts of america – lunch alert! trump is right…we can reopen parts of america – lunch alert! globalism is the cause of the pandemic…not the cure – lunch alert! globalism is the cause of the pandemic…not the cure – lunch alert! video archives second article release coronavirus vaccine before efficacy testing? by dick morris on march 19, 2020 as the global surge in new coronavirus cases spreads throughout the world, scientists are racing to develop a vaccine to prevent its further growth. get the full story — click here! continue reading… do you support or oppose new coronavirus vaccine? by dick morris on march 19, 2020 create your own user feedback survey what’s causing the change in trump? by dick morris on march 18, 2020 it has been a hallmark of the trump presidency for the president to go it alone, sometimes ignoring his staff and other times treating them with contempt as he shows them the door. get the full story — click here! continue reading… parties come together over coronavirus by dick morris on march 16, 2020 the democratic debate between biden and sanders brought out one fundamental truth about the parties’ views on how to cope with the coronavirus: there is really no disagreement between them. get the full story — click here now! continue reading… a new donald trump is emerging by dick morris on march 14, 2020 americans are seeing a new donald trump as the president works to contain and get ahead of the corona virus. get the full story — click here! continue reading… western journalism links dick's picks twitter feed and bottom ad tweets by @dickmorristweet home page history videos history videos how the black death killed one-quarter of europe in 1350 – history video! the influenza epidemic of 1918/19 – history video! living in mom’s basement is progressives goal – history video! ad space march 27, 2020 above the fold adsense newsmax newsmax newsfeed facebook dick morris contact dick list of recent articles – hard coded recent articles four senators put their greed first by dick morris on march 20, 2020 release coronavirus vaccine before efficacy testing? by dick morris on march 19, 2020 do you support or oppose new coronavirus vaccine? by dick morris on march 19, 2020 what’s causing the change in trump? by dick morris on march 18, 2020 click here to scroll all recent articles home_page_bottom_right copyright © dickmorris.com | privacy policy | terms and conditions