home politics cltv mediabites search this site: search login | register username: * password: * forgot password? remember my login on this computer politics 3/26/20 10:30am read time: 2 minutes comments did donald trump even warn his task force about easter timeline? trump's press secretary admits trump is just engaging in "positive thinking" rather than policy. by frances langum 1 day ago by frances langum views: wow trump's press secretary gives the game away. again. missed mensa by a mile brian kilmeade at least asked the right question. did trump even mention to his coronavirus task force that "easter timeline" for "reopening the economy" thing he announced? probably not. kilmeade: stephanie, how real is this easter date and how well- informed was the rest of the task force that the president was going to say that yesterday, that his goal was to open up by easter? grisham: you know, i don't know how well-informed they were. and then she served up a whole lot of word salad to fill out the segment: i think that the president as he has been doing is very hopeful and wants to have a message of hope to the american people. i think he would love it if we were opened up for business yesterday, but after the 15 days when we see the data come in, we'll see where we're at and i think the president will make his decision now, but he is hopeful and i will tell you something, as somebody who was just in quarantine for two weeks, it's tough it's tough and i imagine a lot of people want to try to get out there and get back to work, as long as they are social distancing. so we'll see what happens once the 15 days goes past and we've got new data sets. and then, she told a huge lie. the president listens to his medical team and dr. fauci and listens to his task force and will make recommendations and then ultimately the final decision. and you know what's adorable? the fox news dot com story on this interview doesn't mention either grisham not knowing if trump informed the task force about easter, or the lie about him "listening" to his medical team. the task force is a tv prop for trump to appear "presidential." the end. tags: fox and friends, stephanie grisham facebook twitter pinterest flipboard email can you help us out? for 16 years we have been exposing washington lies and untangling media deceit. we work 7 days a week, 16 hours a day for our labor of love, but with rising hosting and associated costs, we need your help! could you donate $20 for 2020? please consider a one time or recurring donation of whatever amount you can spare. it will be greatly appreciated and help us continue our mission of exposing the real fake news! donate via: kindest donate via paypal or mail checks to: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 more c&l coverage stephanie grisham warns press: 'there's no reason to go backwards and figure out what happened' white house press secretary stephanie grisham on sunday lashed out at the media for reporting on the trump administration's failures to act prior to the novel coronavirus outbreak in the united states. mar 22, 2020 by david stephanie grisham defends trump tweet on schumer and pelosi who are 'almost taking the side of terrorists' white house press secretary stephanie grisham on monday defended president donald trump after he tweeted an image of democratic leaders in muslim garb next to an iranian flag. jan 13, 2020 by david stephanie grisham expands trump's category of 'scum' the white house press secretary declared that anyone who opposes the president deserves that moniker. oct 24, 2019 by aliza worthington donald caught in another lie: flotus has never met kim jong un after donald trump just made a story up out of whole cloth, white house press secretary stephanie grisham was left to sweep up the dirt and make it pretty. aug 27, 2019 by karoli kuns trump's press secretary says schiff has 'a mental issue' projection on steroids from stephanie grisham. jan 27, 2020 by frances langum stephanie grisham doesn't know if task force was informed about easter timeline a lot of hopeful happy talk as stephanie grisham tries to cover up trump's lack of communication. mar 26, 2020 by frances langum comments we welcome relevant, respectful comments. any comments that are sexist or in any other way deemed hateful by our staff will be deleted and constitute grounds for a ban from posting on the site. please refer to our terms of service (revised 3/17/2016) for information on our posting policy. latest fox and friends pretends trump is sympathetic to ny's need for ventilators. ainsley earhardt completely re-words dear leader's response to gov. cuomo's plea for 30,000 ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by aliza worthington trump 'doesn't believe' we don't need so many ventilators good to know, stable genius! mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump admits his 'issues' with michigan's woman governor are affecting covid aid what the hell, donald. grow up and do your job. mar 27, 2020 by john amato trump's 'easter' schedule is all about the brunch money of course trump's hotels have a profit center around the after-church easter buffets. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum jimmy kimmel interviews joe biden about the coronavirus crisis "speed matters," biden said about trump's response. mar 27, 2020 by susie madrak view all » latest from cltv governor cuomo's henry v speech: 'we will tell our grandchildren and shed a tear' andrew cuomo speaks to new york national guard troops in a speech that will long be remembered. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum fox & friends revisionist history of trump's denial that new york needs ventilators fox & friends lies about what trump said just the night before with sean hannity about new york's need for ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by heather trump to hannity: 'i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators' "you know, you go to major hospitals, sometimes they have 2 ventilators." says stable genius. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump whines to hannity about governor whitmer of course the strong woman governor is a problem for donald. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum tucker carlson attacks the media for reporting on the dangers of trump promoting untested covid-19 treatments fox's tucker carlson goes after the media for daring to report on trump's dangerous rhetoric promoting experimental coronavirus treatments. mar 27, 2020 by heather visit cltv » stay connected facebook twitter flipboard feeds daily newsletter our daily top picks right to your inbox email name name="b_1b79560977ef0d50a412db2c8_d4904be7bc" tabindex="-1" value=""> staff editor & publisher john amato managing editor karoli kuns associate editors aliza worthington frances langum heather nicole belle susie madrak contributors chris capper li... dale merrill david ed scarce jenn budd newshound ellen red painter webmaster jamie support c&l or by snail mail: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 ©2020 crooks and liars footer about us feeds contact terms of service privacy dmca search this site: search home cltv politics media bites entertainment activism sports tech green business yesteryear misc