home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us tricks n tips difference or comparison between iphone se , iphone 6s... tricks n tips difference or comparison between iphone se , iphone 6s & iphone 6s plus by shashank jain - april 4, 2016 312 1 - advertisment - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp difference or comparison between iphone se , iphone 6s & iphone 6s plus apple has recently announced the iphone se as being the newest member of the iphone family and many people have high expectations from this device! but one has to wonder, how does the new device stack up against the iphone 6s and the 6s plus? let’s find that out right now! difference or comparison between iphone se , iphone 6s & iphone 6s plus screen resolution the 6s has a resolution of 1334×750, the plus version has a full hd version of 19920×1080 and the se has a much lower resolution of 1136×640. considering that the later has only 4”, it’s understandable and it doesn’t really hurt the experience at all. when compared to the other devices, the 6s has 4.7” and the plus has 5.5”. thickness, height and width iphone 6s: height 138.3 mm, width 67.1 mm and thickness 7.1 mm iphone 6s plus: height 158.2 mm, width 77.9 mm and thickness 7.3 mm iphone se: height 123.8 mm, width 58.6 mm and thickness 7.6 mm the important takeaway here is that despite being a smaller device, the se is thicker than the others, which might make it more resistant to damage and other similar problems that the day to day user does tend to encounter quite often. processor the iphone se, 6s and the 6s plus share the same processor, which is an a9 64-bit + m9 motion co-processor. it’s quite interesting to see such a powerful processor added in on a less expensive device, something that does show the focus that apple has on this new, smaller phone niche. 3d touch the iphone se is the only model in this list that doesn’t include 3d touch. considering that it’s also the cheapest out of the entire bunch, you can expect this to happen, yet still some might see it as a downside. despite that, you will find the se to be more than useful even with the extra features that would come with the 3d touch. weight this is where the se reigns. it has only 3.99 oz, a lot less than the 5.04 oz. the 6s has or the 6.77 oz. brought by the 6s plus. considering that it’s a much smaller device when compared to the 6s and the plus version, it’s easy to understand why the se is so lightweight, but this obviously offers a great advantage if you want portability and ease of use. camera here is where all the devices have the same result. all these iphone models are equipped with a 12mp f/2.2 aperture camera which will offers exactly the same photo quality. if you want to mostly take photos with your device then you can purchase either one of them. considering the price, the se is definitely seeming to become the most attractive offer in this situation. also, all devices retain the “retina flash” screen, true tone flash type as well, so the camera and flash are exactly the same on all models. colors as we all know, the 6s and the 6s plus are available in gold, silver, space gray, rose gold colors and the se will maintain the same trend. it’s interesting to see that the new device will maintain the color of the more expensive models, but the lower size will surely make it easier to spot when compared to the others. video capture we talked about the camera earlier and a similar thing happens with the video capture capabilities as well. basically, you get a maximum of 3840×2160 @ 30 fps on all devices and each device can record 1080p @60fps. you receive the same video capture capabilities regardless of which device you end up purchasing. touch id touch id is a recent innovation that was added in by the latest iphone models and all of the models in question, including the se are integrating this useful feature. the best thing about this feature is that it makes locking and managing the phone security a lot easier, so it’s really nice to have it integrated in all of these devices, that’s for sure. battery life when it comes to 3g talk, you get up to 14 hours for the se and the 6s, with the 6s plus delivering up to 24 hours of battery life in these situations. if you are looking for the standby numbers, both the se and the 6s are delivering an uptime of 240 hours whereas the 6s plus can give an uptime of up to 384 hours. price this is where the iphone se is far superior, because it delivers great features at $399 for the 16 gb model and $499 for the 64 gb one. the 6s plus is way more expensive with $749 for 16 gb, $849 for 64 gb and $949 for 128 gb. lastly, you can get a 6s at $649 for 16 gb, $749 for 64 gb and $849 for the 128 gb model. which one is the best? it does depend on what you need from a phone and what you are focused on using the most. for those that want to take photos, the se is by far the best because the price range is a lot more accessible. if you do want 3d touch on the other hand you will not be able to get such a feature from the se and thus the 6s plus as well as the 6s will be a lot better in this situation. the screen size is yet another thing that will impact the overall experience and decision. the se has only 4 inch so it’s a lot smaller than the 5.5 and 4.7 inch models. it does offer more portability though and that does matter to quite a lot of people. it’s a little odd that this model is thicker even if it’s smaller to begin with. when it comes to the overall battery life, there’s no denying that the largest model and with the most powerful battery takes the reigns here but the se is a great surprise. considering the price, the iphone se does manage to stand toe to toe with the 6s, and that’s truly impressive. as a whole, all of these devices integrate great features and incredible results as a whole. if you want a smaller, yet very powerful and less expensive iphone, the se can really pay off and it does offer a nice set of features at its price. it all comes down to you and your needs, but it’s great to see that the iphone market becomes more diverse, as customers are the ones who benefit the most out of it! - advertisement - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp previous articlehow to track an iphone by phone number next articleiphone se: reviews , should i buy an iphone se shashank jain shashank jain, founder of iphone-s, a young and energetic entrepreneur has always been fond of technology. his liking for technology made him go for engineering in computers. during his studies, he learned & worked on different computer languages & os including hbcd, linux, etc. he also has a keen interest in ethical hacking. 1 comment leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. must read chatroulette apps for android & ios anshi - modified date: march 19, 2020 0 full guide on satisfactory save game location anshi - modified date: march 18, 2020 0 how to use cxbx emulator – way to play on cxbx ashish lavania - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 how cryptocurrency works: a complete guide by hedgespots anshi - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? shashank jain - modified date: march 7, 2020 0 - advertisement - sponsored postshashank jain - march 7, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? it’s perfectly normal to think that apple doesn’t make mistakes when it comes to technology. however, they do. when first... read more uncategorizedshashank jain - march 5, 2020 0 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use marketing strategy if you are not using email marketing to promote your brand, products or services, you are missing out on... read more must read itunes errorshashank jain - june 21, 2016 0 iрhоnе rеѕtоrе errоr !! if уоu see аn еrrоr like error 17, error... read more sponsored postshashank jain - june 21, 2018 0 how to use the top features of spectrum digital home phone service? no matter how much we move forward regarding technology,... read more trending tech 8 amazing yoga and meditation apps for iphone users shashank jain - december 13, 2017 0 top 4 pocket wod free app for ipad/ iphone – crossfit app shashank jain - january 7, 2017 0 top 6 nature & wildlife mobile apps shashank jain - november 20, 2016 0 - advertisement - you might also likerelated recommended to you technology iphone not connecting to internet – how to solve it one of the most common failures in apple devices,... ashish lavania - february 20, 2020 0 read more how to guide steps how to auto-reply text messages in iphone suppose you are busy and middle of something and... ashish lavania - january 25, 2020 0 read more tricks n tips 10 iphone hacks and tricks to max out your phone’s abilities how many iphone users do you think are in... shashank jain - january 20, 2020 0 read more tricks n tips need and benefits of employee orientation whenever a new employee is hired in an organization, it becomes... shashank jain - december 10, 2019 0 read more © copyright 2018 - iphone-s.com factspress