skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more digital marketing digital marketing done right to launch and grow an online business, you'll need to know the latest best practices for marketing your brand online. we're here to help. promote your brand online what is digital marketing? digital marketing is the process of promoting your product, service, or brand through various digital channels. whether your business is exclusively online, or you have a brick-and-mortar store, digital marketing is critical to the success of any business in this day and age. think about it. most of our days are spent in front of screens, whether it's sitting in front of a computer at work, or scrolling through social media on our phones at night. so if you want to reach people with your message, that's where you'll find them. we want to provide you with the information you need to thrive as a digital marketer, by giving you tools and resources to learn about social media marketing, online branding, content marketing, search engine optimization, online advertising, and more. the resources you'll find on this page are dedicated to helping you understand and implement digital marketing tactics that will help you succeed. on this page, you'll find: a branding guide to help you get started courses designed to help you go deeper our best free articles and tutorials on digital marketing podcast interviews with successful online marketers free step by step advice our essential guide to branding the first step in digital marketing is to develop your brand and then establish yourself, and you company, online. this guide will help you develop your brand and then show you how to make your mark. digital marketing spi's epic guide to branding think about when you woke up this morning. maybe you turned off the alarm on your iphone. then you went… 8 chapters start here courses courses to guide you through the process these essential courses will help you get started, whether you need to create an online presence, test out a business idea, or start your digital marketing program. view all courses build your own brand a free 5-day challenge to help you build a brand and website you can be proud of free by pat flynn learn more smart from scratch® how to find a winning business idea & land your first customer in the wake of covid-19 hardship, spi media is waiving the cost of this course for a limited time. free for a limited time by pat flynn learn more 1-2-3 affiliate marketing a 3-step system to learn how to generate an income online by recommending products and services that already exist in your marketplace. $699 by pat flynn learn more articles tutorials and case studies these articles, tutorials, and case studies will help you choose the best products and tools to serve your audience. view all articles on marketing how to fuel your predictable marketing funnel with facebook ads learn how facebook ads can help you drive predictable marketing results! this is the second in a two-part series on building predictable marketing funnels. a beginner's guide to predictable marketing funnels in this guest post, greg hickman gives us an in-depth beginner's guide to predictable marketing funnels. learn how to set up a reliable system for growth. how to start with paid advertising i asked the spi community how to start with paid advertising, and you delivered with some great advice. here's how to get started with paid ads. 10,000+ email subscribers a month from instagram in 1 year: how foundr did it—guest post by nathan chan instagram can be a surprisingly effective tool for marketing your business—if you do it right. in this guest post, nathan chan from foundr magazine teaches how instagram can help you grow your business and engage with your followers. lead generation “on the go” via mobile—and how to get it for free! people spend almost 3 hours on their mobile device every single day! it's no wonder why more and more marketers are starting to utilize sms list building to grow their email list and build an even bigger audience. on stage at live events, in webinars, videos and the best kind of question to ask to increase engagement here's a quick and easy way you can increase engagement across all of your platforms. from your blog to your podcast and videos, and especially on social media, this single type of question can get your audience to reply and respond more than anything. check it out! why you need “moments of activation” injected into your brand a lot of people will come across your site and your brand, but are you taking advantage of what's possible during those early moments of arrival? here's how you can use “moments of activation to convert your casual audience into those who will stick around, subscribe, and perhaps buy from you. how to grow your blog audience by building relationships with other bloggers: the ultimate guide one of the biggest lessons i've learned while building multiple successful blogs and businesses is this: you cannot go it alone. each and every milestone i've had was the result of people i've built a relationship with. in this post, you'll learn a system for connecting to other bloggers and entrepreneurs online that will help take your blog and business to the next level. check it out… how to sell without selling: the art of no-pitch promotion in this article, i'll show you how you can avoid feeling like you have to hard-sell everything, and strategically put systems into place to passively generate an income on your site long-term. and it all starts with the idea of baseball… 5 “five-minute or less” blogging tips that yield big results. i'm using tip #1 in this title. sometimes it's the small tweaks that can yield big results. here's a list of my top 5 favorite “5-minute or less” blogging tips to help you. recommended tool bluehost bluehost is our go-to hosting platform for all of our websites, including this one. bluehost is a proven powerhouse in the website hosting industry. they offer exceptional customer service. they allow you to host multiple domains under one account, which is super convenient. they're as reliable as they come. and they offer an exclusive discount just for you as an spi fan: hosting for only $2.75/month! get bluehost build a brand you can be proud of learn how to build a successful online brand step-by-step guidance on setting up your website tips on how to start your email list register for build your own brand podcasts digital marketing podcast episodes listen in to hear the best of spi's success stories, case studies, and advice for building and growing an digital marketing program. smart passive income podcast with pat flynn weekly interviews, strategy, and advice for building your online business the smart way. subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast60+ million downloads october 16, 2019 spi 393: got story brand? an interview with donald miller may 15, 2019 spi 371: seo and business growth today with glen allsop august 21, 2019 spi 385: the next big thing for marketers is . . . email? april 24, 2019 spi 368: how to build a youtube brand that makes an impact with tim schmoyer january 2, 2019 spi 352: how powerhouse youtuber marques brownlee (a.k.a. mkbhd) grew his massive brand more episodes askpat 2.0 a weekly coaching call on online business, blogging, marketing, and lifestyle design. apply for an askpat coaching call! you’ll be asked a series of questions about your business and will be given the opportunity to make a 30-second audio pitch for your question. see the full submission guidelines. and read the askpat privacy policy and terms of use. apply for a coaching call subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast12.5 million downloads march 21, 2019 ap 1060: how do i grow my small social media following and build my brand? august 15, 2019 ap 1081: where do i start to build an audience and community online? july 18, 2019 ap 1077: how do i best scale my business after getting started and building a following? june 27, 2019 ap 1074: what is superfans about and who is it for? march 1, 2018 ap 1005: how do i double my email list and sell without selling out? more episodes want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less