close demo digital pro theme package see pricing and buy theme skip to content skip to primary sidebar studiopress customer portal gutenberg ready create a site framework performance security seo plugins updates support plans and pricing shop for themes get started pro plus showcase faq genesis framework login digital pro theme package + genesis framework package if you’re building a business around digital goods, you need a theme that will support your efforts and won’t get in the way when you’re marketing your digital products. digital pro builds trust with a friendly, open feel and clean, easy-to-read typography. $99.95 buy theme + framework package live demo live demo want the best deals on studiopress themes? free themes on wp engine free themes for agency partners buy all themes & save > $1,700! theme options use options to get up and running in minutes and start customizing your new site with just a few clicks of the mouse. ecommerce this is a flexible, open source, ecommerce theme that is pre-styled for woocommerce so you can easily set up your online store. theme customizer the theme customizer allows you to tweak the theme’s settings, colors, and content and see a preview of those changes in real time. widget areas build up your site with 3 widget areas that you can customize to fit your brand. customizable header upload your own logo with the press of a button. full support for text-based logos for those just getting started. mobile responsive this theme is mobile responsive, meaning your website will be perfectly optimized for every browser, device, and screen size. primary sidebar digital pro theme package + genesis framework package the digital pro theme package includes the following functionality: accessibility ready custom header ecommerce html5 markup landing page mobile responsive theme customizer theme options translation ready layout options: content-sidebar sidebar-content full-width-content buy theme package + framework package digital pro theme package + genesis framework package get your site up and running with the digital pro theme package and the genesis framework package today. $99.95 includes the genesis framework package includes the digital pro theme package get instant access unlimited updates & sites unlimited support for 1 year access to detailed tutorials one-time purchase fee buy theme + framework pro plus membership best value save over $1200! download our entire theme collection. a great value for designers and developers. $499.95 includes the genesis framework package access to detailed theme tutorials includes every theme we make includes all future themes we make unlimited updates & sites unlimited support for 1 year savings of more than $1200! see pricing and details footer studiopress © 2020 wpengine, inc. products all-in-one with wp engine shop for themes theme features getting started showcase company brand assets terms of service acceptable use policy privacy policy refund policy contact us community find developers forums facebook group #genesiswp showcase resources studiopress blog help & documentation faqs code snippets affiliates connect studiopress live studiopress fm facebook twitter dribbble