welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog 20 programas de capacitación para el aprendizaje corporativo published on: aug 19, 2019 by maría pérez 3287 views no comments posted in: en español like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post hemos reunido una lista de programas micromasters® y programas de certificación profesional para el aprendizaje corporativo. en edx, nuestra finalidad es ayudar a los profesionales a iniciar una carrera que les apasione. los profesionales buscan credenciales y certificados que indiquen a los empleadores, que tienen un conocimiento profundo en campos relevantes para la carrera profesional, estos programas le brindarán exactamente eso. cada curso, certificación profesional... read more about 20 programas de capacitación para el aprendizaje corporativo 12 habilidades que puedes aprender en menos de 6 semanas published on: jul 17, 2019 by maría pérez 2453 views no comments posted in: en español like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post ¿quieres aprender nuevas habilidades o perfeccionar una existente pero no tienes mucho tiempo libre para hacerlo? hemos seleccionado 12 cursos en temas variados que pueden completarse en seis semanas o menos (cada uno). comienza a aprender hoy mismo y a tu propio ritmo. a continuación encontrarás los mejores cursos en temas como el desarrollo de software, el marketing, el emprendimiento, la gestión de proyectos, las... read more about 12 habilidades que puedes aprender en menos de 6 semanas edx learner to employee: meet thao published on: may 07, 2019 by livia halltari 1609 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post welcome to the latest installment of edx insider, where we give you a behind-the-scenes look at edx team members. today, we chat with thao nguyen, marketing/content support associate. quick stats: name: thao nguyen department & role: content support associate, marketing hometown: pasadena, ca favorite song: sunsets pt. 2 – sg lewis what led you to your current role at edx? about 3 years ago i... read more about edx learner to employee: meet thao why you need to add digital marketing skills to your resume published on: may 05, 2019 by justine goulart 21171 views 3 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post there’s no doubt about it, technology has changed the way we communicate and receive information. and because of this change, businesses have had to adapt the ways they communicate with their customers. today, consumers are in information overload and look to the internet to receive information about their favorite brands and companies. as a result, over the past few years, companies have largely shifted their... read more about why you need to add digital marketing skills to your resume five tips for developing an omnichannel strategy published on: sep 01, 2017 by anita shore, daniel jauk 6173 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post “e-commerce activities will be replaced with a total integration of online, offline, logistics and data across a single value chain.” – jack ma, founder of alibaba jack ma’s words are right on target. e-commerce, which oozed ultra-modern just a few years ago, has been eclipsed by a new kid on the block. its name may be a mouthful, but omnichannel marketing is leading the pack in... read more about five tips for developing an omnichannel strategy 5 qualities recruiters look for in job candidates published on: mar 28, 2017 by mike hebert 13660 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post if you’re looking for a job, you know how difficult it can be to catch an employer’s attention. in today’s job market, you often need to show more than just the required qualifications to get hired. but what else do recruiters look for in potential employees? read on to find out some of the qualities that make the biggest impression on recruiters like myself. 1.... read more about 5 qualities recruiters look for in job candidates using the power of social media to find your next job published on: jan 04, 2017 by jill fisher 36062 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post why edx certificates can help your job search and how to add them to your linkedin profile. on the hunt for a new job? looking to switch careers? if you’re actively searching and applying to jobs, adding an edx certificate to your linkedin profile can help highlight to future employers your latest skills and achievements. with an increasingly competitive job market, it’s important to set... read more about using the power of social media to find your next job marketing, anatomy and engineering: courses starting soon on edx! published on: oct 30, 2015 by justine goulart 6049 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post as the calendar turns to november, edx invites you explore our exciting new courses and join our global learning community. learn how to market in the digital world, care for pet birds, create real-time data analytic solutions, or discuss and interpret a classic 19th century novel. find the course for you and enroll today! advanced placement® and ap® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the college board, which was not... read more about marketing, anatomy and engineering: courses starting soon on edx! harness the power of consumers through digital branding and engagement published on: oct 19, 2015 by yvette tulloch 5583 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post if you’re interested in engagement and branding in a digital era, or if your marketing career pre-dates instagram (or worse, the iphone), you should take this course. here’s why. we live in a digital world. today, more than 3 billion people are connected to the internet. with every second that passes there will be another 50,284 google searches, 2,545 uploads to instagram and 106,504 videos... read more about harness the power of consumers through digital branding and engagement search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close