eventbrite, and certain approved third parties, use functional, analytical and tracking cookies (or similar technologies) to understand your event preferences and provide you with a customized experience. by closing this banner or by continuing to use eventbrite, you agree. for more information please review our cookie policy. skip main navigation eventbrite search menu search for events browse events create event help how it works what does it cost to create an event? where are my tickets? how to contact the event organizer help center menu help create event sign in sign in page content £6,900 – £11,000 multiple dates multiple dates digital discovery+ deep dive - london by the sasha group £6,900 – £11,000 actions and detail panel from £6,900 select a time event information share this event date and time multiple dates location location the sasha group london tagwright house 35-41 westland place london n1 7lp united kingdom view map view map event description description about the day: the digital discovery+ deep dive is a one-day, fully immersive digital consulting session led by vaynerx’s most senior leadership, including our ceo, gary vaynerchuk. part master-class and part workshop, the 4ds will take you under the hood of vaynerx, not only analyzing the work we do for some of the largest brands in the world but more importantly, how those tactics and strategies can help you achieve the attention and objectives your business deserves. workshops will be tailored to the needs of individual groups and will have you leaving with all the practical marketing advice and tools to grow and scale your business. the day will be filled with speakers, industry news discussions, exercises, and conversations in all the areas in which we’re experts. sessions include a collection of deep dives into paid media, influencer media, digital strategy, content production, personal branding, platform strategy, and more. these workshops are reserved to small groups of no more than 12 people to ensure an intimate environment which can mold to the attendees and their respective goals. have questions? send us an email at 4ds@thesashagroup.com documenting the day: want to document the day or bring a videographer? here's what you need to know! videographers are welcomed and encouraged to join your 4ds experience as a way of documenting and creating dispersible content for your social channels. we ask that throughout the day your videographer focus remains on you and your interactions with speakers and gary. additionally your videographer will get 15 minutes with a teamgaryvee videographer during one of the sessions where filming is prohibited. looking forward to hosting you! read more read less tags tags united kingdom events city of westminster events things to do in london london classes london business classes share with friends share with friends location the sasha group london tagwright house 35-41 westland place london n1 7lp united kingdom view map view map map and directions view map digital discovery+ deep dive - london at the sasha group london tagwright house 35-41 westland place, london, n1 7lp, united kingdom by car walking public transport bike save this event log in or sign up for eventbrite to save events you're interested in. sign up already have an account? log in event saved site navigation use eventbrite how it works pricing event blog plan events online registration sell event tickets event management software find events browse london events get the eventbrite app connect with us report this event help center terms privacy community guidelines eventbrite © 2020 eventbrite contact the organizer your message has been sent! your email will only be seen by the event organizer. find out more about how your privacy is protected. your name email address message enter the code as shown below: send message please wait... cancel close copy link copy event url social settings events are social. allow facebook friends to see your upcoming events? yes (recommended) yes (recommended) no, keep my events secret no, keep my events secret save save this event log in or sign up for eventbrite to save events you're interested in. sign up already have an account? log in event saved