services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing bluleadz inbound marketing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply close services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply inbound in everything we do meet the crew these are the people that make the magic happen. all leadership special ops bz bees edisons ferox bz marketing and sales x after earning a journalism degree from the university of florida, i joined the bluleadz team as a brand and marketing specialist. i am thrilled to be a part of building the bluleadz brand through social media, office design and branded swag. favorites: food: tacos hobby: beachin' artist: magic giant tv show: new girl place: lake gaston, nc industry personal baylor cherry marketing & brand specialist x while i may be new to this team, i’m not new to the ever-changing world of marketing! as a marketer, i have more than 8 years of experience in managing digital marketing campaigns. i have a b.a. from the university of tampa. when not at work, i stretch my knowledge of useless trivia as part of a competitive team. i also enjoy watching sports & managing my fantasy football team. favorites: food: chicken nuggets and pizza hobby: socializing artist: def leppard tv show: big little lies place: the mountains industry personal anita hawkins marketer x as a ppc specialist, i’m part of the amazing team building the bluleadz following. i graduated from usf in 2016 with my advertising degree, and i’ve been working in the ppc space ever since. outside of the office, i enjoy many things including baseball (go braves), video games, cars, and the beach. favorites: food: chicken alfredo hobby: cars artist: linkin park tv show: rick and morty place: nags head, nc industry personal corey lapp ppc specialist x i am a content creator with a passion for bringing brands to life through video. as a graduate of the university of florida college of journalism and communications with a degree in telecommunication-production, i have nearly a decade of professional video production experience. go gators! favorites: food: publix sub (italian) hobby: event planning artist: huey lewis tv show: friends place: ben hill griffin stadium industry personal brooks allen video production specialist x as a recent graduate from the usf, i am excited to join bluleadz as an account manager intern. growing up in 7 different countries, i've learned the importance of adaptability and embracing change, which i believe will help me with all of my assignments at bluleadz. in my spare time, you'll either find a camera in my hand snapping away at a concert or snuggling with my dog. favorites: food: beyond burgers hobby: concert photography artist: lana del ray tv show: full house place: cape town, south africa industry personal marlo miller marketer x i joined bluleadz in 2014, shortly after graduating from the university of tampa. i love helping my clients grow their business with inbound marketing by working with them to create awesome and unique content. born and raised in naples, fl, i enjoy watching friends re-runs, relaxing at the beach/pool, and spending time with my friends and family. favorites: food: garlic bread hobby: crafting artist: luke bryan tv show: friends place: st. lucia industry personal jackie wiley account manager x julian hooks has 10+ years of internet marketing experience. with an expertise in search engine optimization (seo) and a broad range of experience in paid search, media buying, content marketing, conversion rate optimization, and inbound marketing, he’s somewhat of a full stack marketer. he also knows just enough html/css/php to be dangerous and loves wordpress. favorites: food: cereal hobby: powerlifting artist: jay-z tv show: the office place: gym industry personal julian hooks technical seo specialist x born and raised in new york, i hold a degree in psychology from suny old westbury. i love content’s capacity to educate, inspire, and unite the human in all of us. when i’m not working, you can find me at ballet class, painting, or playing board & video games. favorites: food: anything italian hobby: painting artist: marina & the diamonds tv show: crazy ex-girlfriend place: nyc industry personal patti myers marketer x born & raised in boston, i moved to the sunshine state to attend the university of florida where i graduated with a degree in advertising. i’m excited to use my skills to successfully sell our services by sparking engagement with qualified leads. in my spare time, you’ll find me at the beach, binge-watching netflix or snuggling my pug. favorites: food: chips and guac hobby: traveling artist: the lumineers tv show: the office place: duxbury, ma industry personal anne marie mccluskey sales development rep x as the token ‘young one’ of the office, i haven’t let this slow down my journey to a senior strategist. with the basis of my career at bluleadz, my dedication has always been capitalizing on a strong online presence. i truly enjoy building client relationships, developing new ideas and putting a plan in place to provide value and grow businesses. favorites: food: nachos hobby: beachin' artist: maren morris tv show: new girl place: california industry personal cassandra leonard strategist x my passion for graphic design began in high school yearbook class over a decade ago. i have experience designing for inbound, traditional, and nonprofit marketing. i earned my bachelor's degree in mass communication from southeastern university. in my spare time i enjoy spending time with friends & family, traveling, & being outdoors. favorites: food: crab legs hobby: traveling artist: bon iver tv show: sons of anarchy place: yosemite industry personal brittany mcmillen graphic designer x content creator extraodinaire for bluleadz. i have been with the company since 2013 and have worked with clients in numerous industries to create valuable and informative content that attracts leads organically. on my days off, i like indulging in my tabletop gaming and model-building hobbies. favorites: food: lasagna hobby: model kits artist: billy joel tv show: babylon 5 place: bed industry personal doug phillips copywriter x i joined the bluleadz team as a copywriter intern in the summer of 2019. i’m absurdly obsessed with finding different ways to manipulate words to entertain or educate. ideally, both at the same time. a native floridian, most of my downtime is dedicated to finding the “appropriate” balance between nerding over media indoors and enjoying the year-round warm weather outside with my dog. favorites: food: chick-fil-a hobby: writing fiction artist: childish gambino tv show: letterkenny place: d.c. industry personal micah lally copywriter x with 20 years of advertising experience, i've written for many brands across all forms of media. now, crafting engaging content as an inbound marketer is what gets me up in the morning—and keeps me up late. a wmu graduate, i moved to florida for year-round boating. when not on the water, i’m probably on a plane (24 countries and counting). favorites: food: saganaki hobby: boating & traveling artist: fleetwood mac tv show: the sopranos place: paris industry personal brad hadfield copywriter x i’ve been designing and developing here at bluleadz since 2016 but i’ve been a computer geek fueling my creative juices since the early 2000’s. i love every pixel part of design and constantly pushing myself in new ways to design and improve my craft. i also have a serious addiction to netflix, all marvel movies, and everything john mayer. favorites: food: pizza and pasta hobby: netflix n' eating artist: john mayer tv show: friends place: colorado industry personal jackie baez web designer x as a recent graduate from the university of tampa with a b.s in marketing, i have started my journey with bluleadz as an account manager intern. aspects of marketing that excite me are content creation, branding, and client management. i’m excited to learn and grow my skills during my time as an intern with bluleadz. favorites: food: little miss bbq in az hobby: cooking artist: tash sultana and gunna tv show: friends place: boulder, co industry personal marbella villamizar marketer x born and raised in tampa, i graduated from the university of tampa with a marketing & economics degree. after beginning my career in content creation and copywriting, i joined the bluleadz team in 2019. when i’m not writing up a storm, you can find me at a concert, by the pool, or trying out a new recipe. favorites: food: tacos hobby: concerts artist: travis scott tv show: narcos place: miami industry personal katherine wolf marketer x i live and breathe inbound marketing. i drank the kool-aid many years ago and never looked back. i have a passion for helping companies grow their businesses online. i love sales and marketing and getting out on the golf course whenever i can. i'm a huge family man that loves building tree houses, baseball and going to recitals. favorites: food: appolo's white pizza hobby: golf artist: jimmy buffet tv show: billions place: caribbean industry personal eric baum ceo x i recently joined the bluleadz team as an inbound specialist. i plan to use my experience in digital marketing, lead generation and marketing/account strategy to educate and nurture prospects of bluleadz and convert them to satisfied customers. in my spare time i like to golf as well as netflix and chill with my fiancé brooke and our puppy butters. favorites: food: in-n-out cheeseburger hobby: golf artist: kygo tv show: anything with gordon ramsey place: san diego industry personal colin angle inbound specialist x my background is primarily in academics, with several years in teaching and editing for a peer-reviewed journal. as a copywriter, i'm focused on creating exciting content that tells engaging stories about a wide range of industries. in my free time, you can find me working on my latest novel or trying to get a new band off the ground. favorites: food: bbq potato chips hobby: playing guitar artist: paradise lost tv show: game of thrones place: helsinki, finland industry personal ben sperduto copywriter x i am a sales development leader with a passion for creating engagement at the top of the funnel by leading with heart. originally from new york, my career has taken me from software sales to leading teams in the florida sunshine. in my spare time, you can find me at a scouting event, at the beach or in the tennessee mountains. favorites: food: fajitas hobby: girl scout troop leader artist: maroon 5 tv show: grey's anatomy place: tennessee mountains industry personal jennifer ferguson sales development manager x i’ve been with bluleadz for going on three years and have been working in the industry for five years. my role is to design and implement awesome interactive experiences. i’m also a dad, gamer, yoyoer, fixed-gear cyclist and all around nerd. i graduated from the art institute of tampa in the summer of 2012 with my bfa in graphic design. favorites: food: pierogi hobby: cycling artist: alkaline trio tv show: home improvement place: not florida industry personal steven kielbasa web designer x shortly after graduating from the university of south florida i joined bluleadz as a jr. inbound marketing consultant. fast-forward 3+ years and 100's of hours of learning later and now i'm a sr. inbound strategist obsessed with helping our clients grow their businesses. i spend my free time enjoying too much coffee while getting better than i was the day before. favorites: food: pizza hobby: running artist: dmb tv show: game of thrones place: on the trail industry personal will polliard director of sales x i'm excited to join bluleadz as a copywriter intern! born in boston, i left the cold behind and migrated to florida where i graduated from stetson university in 2019 with a degree in history and journalism. i'm passionate about using words to reach and influence people. if i'm not at the beach, i'm probably on a spontaneous adventure with friends and always with a coffee in hand. favorites: food: sushi hobby: drinking coffee artist: louis the child tv show: succession place: boston (in summer) industry personal shaylen vitale copywriter x i join bluleadz with just over a year of marketing experience, graduating from northern arizona university in 2018. my previous roles and background have led me to be passionate about all types of marketing, but i am very eager to learn more. i look forward to expanding my knowledge and skillset as a jr. account manager. in my free time, i like to snowboard, play soccer or go to concerts. favorites: food: ramen hobby: attending concerts artist: odesza tv show: the office place: amsterdam industry personal sara sprenger marketer x as a content marketing specialist, i’m part of the awesome team building the bluleadz following. i earned my english degree at university of south florida, and i’ve been working in content marketing since 2015. i joined bluleadz in 2018. outside the office, i enjoy watching baseball, reading, and outdoor recreation. favorites: food: pizza hobby: hammocking artist: kevin devine tv show: arrested development place: colorado industry personal jeff previte content manager x i joined bluleadz in 2018 as an inbound marketing consultant. my background is diverse in account management, business development and marketing. i love being able to help clients discover what marketing can do for their business. a native from new hampshire, i now reside in the tampa bay area after graduating from the university of south florida in 2013. favorites: food: bacon hobby: sports artist: chris stapleton tv show: the office place: baxter lake industry personal kristin jordan account manager x as the director of marketing, i'm responsible for attracting and engaging our target market and supplying our sales department with a qualified pipeline that will fuel the growth of our agency. marketing minded with a bunch of crazy ideas... that sometimes work. favorites: food: pizza hobby: racquetball artist: billy joel tv show: seinfeld place: nyc industry personal rob steffens director of marketing x i’m a front-end nerd who has had a love of technology since middle school. whether i’m coding or playing video games, i’m on my computer pretty much all day unless i’m hanging out with my friends. i am crazy competitive and love to challenge myself or anybody else to a game. favorites: food: steak hobby: board games artist: my wife tv show: brooklyn nine-nine place: on top of a mountain industry personal stephen brown web designer x i've been in the digital marketing industry since 2012, but with bluleadz since 2016. i work closely with our marketing and sales team from brainstorming marketing strategies to making everything look pixel-perfect. i’m a curious person at heart and jump to every opportunity to learn something new or take on a challenge. favorites: food: jamaican jerk chicken hobby: tennis artist: chris brown tv show: 24 place: nyc industry personal karey mitchell web designer x i hold a bfa from the university of tampa and have been working in advertising and media since the early 2000's. over the years i have gained experience in graphic design, paid search, cable tv and project management. i enjoy helping clients reach their business goals and coming up with new ideas. favorites: food: salmon sashimi hobby: boating artist: kacey musgraves tv show: friends place: las vegas industry personal jennifer franklin strategist x a true inbound marketing believer. since entering the workforce i have worked with dozens of clients at 2 hubspot diamond agencies. beginning as an account manager, to a sr. account manager and now director of client services my goal is to help clients grow their businesses through inbound marketing and train the bluleadz team to effectively do the same. favorites: food: mac n' cheese hobby: traveling artist: jake owen tv show: entourage place: nashville industry personal brittany balog director of client services our mission transform the way companies market, sell, and service their customers with roots in seo, ppc,website design and development spanning over a decade, bluleadz ceo and ping pong pro eric baum was always waiting for the next big thing. in 2009, he found it through inbound marketing. he understood that engaging with visitors, leads and customers online would make brands more valuable and help foster trust among clients and potential customers. pushing all chips on hubspot orange, he built the industry-leading, award-winning company that we know today. as early proponents of inbound, bluleadz may seem like a dinosaur in the industry. but we’re much more jurassic park at a red carpet premiere than smithsonian museum on a rainy sunday. we love growing our clients’ businesses with inbound & hubspot more than coffee…have you ever had really good coffee? exactly. hence, our commitment. we are a motivated, collaborative, transparency-first digital marketing agency who are like family, and we pride ourselves on truly understanding what is most important to our clients and how we can most effectively apply our expertise to help meet their goals. we live by 5 core values everything we do must be awesome do the right thing take ownership / self motivated / reliable be passionate & have a positive "can do" attitude treat everyone with respect, honesty & consideration history the story behind the b and the z 2009 the year it all started! after watching a lot of hubspot tv, our group of 4 inbound marketers jumped in with both feet first and started drinking the hubspot kool-aid. 2010 after officially becoming a hubspot partner, we secured our first client and registered them with hubspot. from there, we began to grow bluleadz by using the inbound marketing techniques we provide to all of our clients today. 2014 building on the success of our first few years, we shifted into hyper-growth and doubled the size of our team from 6 to 12. this lead to us outgrowing our work space not once, but twice, moving us into larger offices. but the biggest highlight of the year was welcoming brian halligan, the ceo of hubspot, as the guest speaker at our annual tampa hug workshop. 2015 a whirlwind of a year that saw us doubling the size of our agency in terms of revenue, team size, and clients. we also won 2 american marketing association awards in tampa bay. 2016 just a few short years after our first sip of the kool-aid, we achieved the highest hubspot partner milestone by becoming a diamond partner agency. we also won a hubspot impact award for the best client blog series. 2018 after another period of rapid growth, we once again outgrew our office and moved into a spacious waterfront property overlooking tampa bay. to celebrate the occasion, we successfully rebranded the company and launched our new website. partners & certifications looking to partner with us? our team is here to help you. fill out the form below to get a better understanding of the impact of teaming up with bluleadz! services marketing design sales pricing company about us customer testimonials careers contact resources blog resources the inbound glossary are you lost? (866) 995-8720 3030 n. rocky point dr. w. suite 600 tampa, florida 33607 facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube messenger © 2020 bluleadz, all rights reserved. privacy policy.