/ submit / search / store / menu blog : show me the posts forums : but read the community guidelines shop : a directory of wonderful products about us : editors, contributors and staff contact us : get satisfaction advertise here : thank you for not blocking ours privacy policy : what we do with data you generate terms of service : what you agree to follow us twitter / facebook / rss david pescovitz / 8:17 am fri kubrick/kraftwerk t-shirt years ago, philip anderson, founder of the great cinefile video store in los angeles, and designer bob bianchini created a genius line of t-shirts that combined the names of auteur directors with the iconic logos of excellent bands: herzog/danzig, bunuel/bahaus, etc. today i just noticed this fantastic stanley kubrick shirt that references kraftwerk's radio-activity album! see them all at cinemetal t-shirts. read the rest share / tweet / comments clothing / directors / films / movies / music / t-shirts / tshirts david pescovitz / 9:24 am thu, dec 6, 2018 watch david lynch's weird tv commercial for adidas david lynch has directed many television commercials but this one from 1993 for adidas, titled "the wall," gives any surreal perfume commercials (including lynch's own) a run for their money. (see what i did there?) you can find a directory and clips of lynch's other commercial, ad, and promo work here. (via r/obscuremedia) read the rest share / tweet / 6 comments commercials / directors / fashion / film / movies / sneakers / television / tv / weird david pescovitz / 9:47 am wed, apr 26, 2017 jonathan demme, director of "silence of the lambs" and "stop making sense," rip jonathan demme, the talented director of silence of the lambs, philadelphia, something wild, talking heads' stop making sense, and numerous other great films, has died at 73. his death was caused by esophageal cancer. from the new york times: a personable man with the curiosity gene and the what-comes-next instinct of someone who likes to both hear and tell stories, mr. demme had a good one of his own, a mr. deeds kind of tale in which he wandered into good fortune and took advantage of it. a former movie publicist, he had an apprenticeship in low-budget b-movies with the producer roger corman before turning director... mr. demme’s other films include documentaries about the folk-rock singer and songwriter neil young; concert films featuring the country singer kenny chesney and the pop star justin timberlake; and “swimming to cambodia” (1987), spalding gray’s monologue ruminating about cambodia under the khmer rouge and his experience appearing in the film “the killing fields.” mr. demme was a member of the alternative arts scene of lower manhattan, which included mr. gray, who died in 2004, as well as mr. byrne and the composer and performer laurie anderson, who scored “swimming to cambodia.” read the rest share / tweet / 16 comments directors / hollywood / movies read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support