newsletter archive food fitness life beauty products workout videos 24 healthy and portable mason jar meals probiotics: over-hyped health trend or genuine cure-all? the self-quarantiner’s guide to eating well(ish) ﻿ 5 reasons to stock up on pistachios, plus 5 inventive recipes how to shop in consideration of others during self-quarantine 5 bubbly and better-for-you alternatives to soda crash course: a beginner’s guide to cheese 16 portable breakfasts for those hella-busy mornings 20 naturally sweet dinners with no added sugar coffee nap: urban legend or bona fide productivity hack? looking to lower your sugar? hit up trader joe’s for these 7 staples 21 vegan mushroom recipes for when you want meaty without the meat 27 creative ways to use chickpeas (that aren’t hummus) 19 simple lunch ideas with only three ingredients 24 breakfast sandwich recipes that are easy enough for weekdays 21 lentil recipes that go way beyond just soup and curry the ultimate list of kitchen tools for healthy cooking if you keep burning food, these recipes are for you how cinnamon rolls help ease my hostess anxieties 9 simple snacks and meals to ease anxiety 5 mistakes every keto beginner makes (and how to avoid them) vegetables as a sugar substitute? yes, we’re serious 10 keto recipes that are full of fat (and that’s a good thing) this berry's juice has our heart beating — for a good reason a beverage fridge is the height of hospitality 13 diy wellness shot recipes — no fancy juicer needed 18 easy no-cook breakfast ideas that taste amazing meet freekeh, the supergrain that might end your affair with quinoa how to get intimate when you have food allergies crash course: how to pair wine and chocolate like a pro all day, all year, we’re cooking cabbage what i gained when i stopped trying to lose weight meet sumac, your new pantry staple 29 next-level rice cooker recipes that go waaay beyond plain white rice greek yogurt is like the little black dress of my fridge what we're getting wrong about ethical eating these whole30 essentials will have you thriving (not just surviving) so... how many servings of fruits a day will keep the inflammation away? 19 essential paleo dinners that will please everyone this charcuterie board feeds 20 people. and yes, you can make it the banana bread guide your taste buds are asking for 19 essential, easy paleo lunch recipes 5 ways food pros prioritize well-being over wellness trends peace, joy, and feta: 21 mediterranean appetizers for the holidays get some delicata squash in your belly this winter 9 last-minute food gifts — with a twist skip the crowds: 20 ways to throw the best nye bash ever crash course: a beginner’s guide to sparkling wine better than coffee: a chocolate blueberry smoothie for energy a whole day of eating for pleasure? literally. yes. this $30 salt and pepper grinder brought me closer to my dad crash course: a beginner's guide to red wine crash course: a beginner’s guide to white wine wth do i do with this bag of fresh cranberries? hungover? don’t think about it. just drink this it's persimmon season, baby! i tested cauliflower parm 3 ways — this is the best nothing captures adulthood quite like a charcuterie board my husband and i don’t cook together — and that’s ok an ode to the best french press i've ever owned 15 granola bars that are actually healthy how nytimes food editors motivate themselves to cook more at home 12 fall granola recipes so good you’ll never go back to store-bought bring this spooky sangria to your next potluck we went to a vegan food festival — and were blown away if you insist on nope-ing weird beers, you’re missing out drink these throughout the day for more energy how to bring life to your collard greens this 1-day meal plan is all about lowering stress “but don’t you care about health?” and other misguided beliefs protein-packed snacks are everywhere — but do you really need them? 40 meals you didn’t know you could make in a toaster oven this is not the kimchi you know — it’s better how does one taste love? in a tiramisu 13 dessert recipes that respect your allergy boundaries i cancelled a date because he was on a diet 15 quick foods that are surprisingly hydrating 4 herbal seltzers our editors love a ridiculously easy guide to figs a traditional kimchi recipe that makes you trust your taste buds a fiery kimchi recipe, passed down by grandma this dried radish kimchi recipe is all about community you haven't had iced coffee like this wired or tired: these latte recipes will alter your energy day or night the cbd drink you should have before a big speech what’s the deal with food sensitivity test kits? why aren't you turning almonds into milk? chia seeds in your coconut water? genius! hear us out: hot cocoa for summer brain drain diet culture says bingeing is bad — your body says it’s survival as a nutritionist, i thought cheat days were harmless. they’re not. breakfast salads! yes, they're a thing and these are delish why your brain wants you to eat more chocolate so you went on a sugar bender — now what? watermelon, pepita, and 6 more seeds your gut will love 47 quick and healthy 3-ingredient recipes one pot: how the pride of puerto rico can make your kitchen more efficient — and delicious! 8 genius ways to up your chili game all year long 3 food bloggers share their favorite family recipes what to eat for breakfast, based on what kind of morning person you are 3 easy pasta dishes that'll have guests asking for seconds celery juice: miracle drink or overhyped fad? a beginner's guide to meal prep 5-ingredient smoothies that taste and look so good we want to cry is drinking decaf coffee better for you? 21 mason jar meals that'll make meal prep way more manageable 7 healthy chocolate bars that are all we need on valentine's day 9 instant pot recipes for gluten-free eaters with serious cravings 17 vegetarian versions of your favorite meaty pasta dishes 9 chicken sausage recipes that'll win over your pork-loving heart 19 dumpling recipes that are easy to make at home 30-minute skillet desserts that are exactly what we need to stay warm right now a 10-minute poke bowl recipe that's actually super low-carb a dietitian makes it easy for you to choose the best alternative milk 9 indian dishes that are almost always keto-friendly 7 meal-prep recipes that only take 15 minutes to cook 7 pegan recipes that combine the best of paleo and vegan diets 19 whole30 recipes you can make in an instant pot 11 puff pastry recipes that look impossible to make but are *so* easy 13 toss-in-foil chicken dinners that are impossible to mess up 15 old-school junk food snacks recreated for healthyish adults 21 five-ingredient crock-pot recipes so you can set it and forget it 5 basic meal-prep formulas so you can stop relying on recipes the keto dieter's guide to dining out 12 keto-friendly foods that aren't as low-carb as you think will drinking coffee wreck my intermittent fast? 14 keto muffins you won't believe you get to eat 13 mediterranean desserts that don't go overboard on the sweet stuff 13 keto soups that skip the carbs but not the comfort 13 mediterranean diet lunches that make meals at a desk way better start with these 23 recipes if you're going on the mediterranean diet a beginner's guide to the keto diet for high-fat, low-carb newbies 21 mediterranean diet snack recipes for better midday munchies 6 keto meal delivery services so you can meal-plan less and eat more 5 healthy challenges to try in 2019 if dry january isn't your thing how to stay super hydrated when the flu knocks you out 9 savory tart recipes that might be the prettiest things you make all year 14 easy dinner party recipes you can pull off on a weeknight 11 store-bought party foods and apps to keep you sane this time of year 7 tips for losing weight that you won't roll your eyes at 12 asian recipes that have no soy (!!!) but still taste amaze 17 porridge recipes to make while hibernating this winter 13 keto crock-pot recipes for easy low-carb meals can a hot toddy really make me feel better or is grandma kidding herself? 19 instant pot breakfast recipes that make mornings instantly better 9 deconstructed recipes that make your favorite dishes way easier 21 orzo recipes to finally give this little noodle the spotlight 21 easy eggplant recipes that aren't just for your vegetarian friends 21 easy crepe recipes you'll regret not trying 6 reasons breakfast is the best meal of the day heartburn sucks—and these 11 foods make it way worse 19 one-pan root vegetable recipes that make cooking easier for all of us the secret to consuming apple cider vinegar when you can't stand the taste 7 brilliant ways to use up leftover bread (that don't involve sandwiches) why i’ll never use traditional nonstick pans again 12 days of cannabis cookies for an extra-happy holiday the 7 best-tasting protein bars you won't want to spit out immediately 9 breakfast parfaits that are basically morning sundaes 10 keto-friendly snacks including magical 'grilled cheese bars' 9 fruity desserts so freaking good we forgot they were healthy is tequila really paleo-friendly or are we kidding ourselves? what to eat (and what to avoid) when you have another annoying uti 19 seitan recipes that will make you love it, even if you can't pronounce it 9 healthy frozen meals that aren't your childhood tv dinners 19 copycat italian recipes that are way healthier than what you get at restaurants 19 fat bomb recipes that taste like bites of heaven 11 thai recipes that are way better than takeout 19 mediterranean diet dinner recipes ready in 30 minutes or less 9 frozen edamame recipes to finally use that bag 9 mediterranean diet breakfast recipes we're always in the mood for 6 vegan yogurts worth eating 25 vegan instant pot recipes in half the time 7 keto breakfast ideas you can meal-prep 21 pita pocket recipes when you want to get more creative than just hummus is dairy bad for you? here are the facts 9 low-carb shrimp recipes (maybe give fish a break?) the best milk alternatives when you're not down with dairy 9 whole30 coffee drinks if black isn't cutting it 11 vegetarian meal-prep ideas that go beyond tofu 7 frozen pizzas that aren't terrible for you 21 gluten-free cupcakes you'll lick off the wrapper 9 vegan breakfasts you can make the night before 9 sunday dinners that you can repurpose all week long the no-prep meals that finally helped me eat all my vegetables 7 cauliflower steak recipes for an easy weeknight meal 7 drinks to make in a french press besides plain ol’ coffee 11 whole30 recipes that taste better in a bowl 13 ground turkey recipes every paleo eater should try at least once 17 vegan dips just as creamy as queso the best and worst foods for sore muscles 21 vegan tacos because mexican food doesn't have to be meat 9 foods to help beat jet lag 5 smoothie delivery services that make mornings easier 7 homemade dog food recipes we won't tell anyone you ate some of 9 keto cookie recipes that are somehow part of a diet the foods that balance out (or mess with) your hormones 21 paleo muffins so you can stop eating eggs every morning 12 foods that give your hair, skin, and nails a boost 9 mezcal cocktails for when you need a break from tequila 9 recipes that prove semifreddo is simpler than you think next about contact privacy careers archive advertise with us terms newsletter © 2019 greatist a red ventures company. our content does not constitute a medical consultation. see a certified medical professional for diagnosis.