what's next?.. a client account is required for purchasing licenses. to create an account, please fill out the registration form completely and accurately. you will then receive an e-mail message with the sign in information. if you already have a registered account, please sign in to the client area. sign in register hello... client area sign in register forgot password? dear new client... country afghanistan åland islands albania algeria american samoa andorra angola anguilla antarctica antigua and barbuda argentina armenia aruba australia austria azerbaijan bahamas bahrain bangladesh barbados belarus belgium belize benin bermuda bhutan bolivia, plurinational state of bonaire, sint eustatius and saba bosnia and herzegovina botswana bouvet island brazil british indian ocean territory brunei darussalam bulgaria burkina faso burundi cambodia cameroon canada cape verde cayman islands central african republic chad chile china christmas island cocos (keeling) islands colombia comoros congo congo, the democratic republic of the cook islands costa rica côte d'ivoire croatia cuba curaçao cyprus czech republic denmark djibouti dominica dominican republic ecuador egypt el salvador equatorial guinea eritrea estonia ethiopia falkland islands (malvinas) faroe islands fiji finland france french guiana french polynesia french southern territories gabon gambia georgia germany ghana gibraltar greece greenland grenada guadeloupe guam guatemala guernsey guinea guinea-bissau guyana haiti heard island and mcdonald islands holy see (vatican city state) honduras hong kong hungary iceland india indonesia iran, islamic republic of iraq ireland isle of man israel italy jamaica japan jersey jordan kazakhstan kenya kiribati korea, democratic people's republic of korea, republic of kuwait kyrgyzstan lao people's democratic republic latvia lebanon lesotho liberia libya liechtenstein lithuania luxembourg macao macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of madagascar malawi malaysia maldives mali malta marshall islands martinique mauritania mauritius mayotte mexico micronesia, federated states of moldova, republic of monaco mongolia montenegro montserrat morocco mozambique myanmar namibia nauru nepal netherlands new caledonia new zealand nicaragua niger nigeria niue norfolk island northern mariana islands norway oman pakistan palau palestinian territory, occupied panama papua new guinea paraguay peru philippines pitcairn poland portugal puerto rico qatar réunion romania russian federation rwanda saint barthélemy saint helena, ascension and tristan da cunha saint kitts and nevis saint lucia saint martin (french part) saint pierre and miquelon saint vincent and the grenadines samoa san marino sao tome and principe saudi arabia senegal serbia seychelles sierra leone singapore sint maarten (dutch part) slovakia slovenia solomon islands somalia south africa south georgia and the south sandwich islands south sudan spain sri lanka sudan suriname svalbard and jan mayen swaziland sweden switzerland syrian arab republic taiwan, province of china tajikistan tanzania, united republic of thailand timor-leste togo tokelau tonga trinidad and tobago tunisia turkey turkmenistan turks and caicos islands tuvalu uganda ukraine united arab emirates united kingdom united states united states minor outlying islands uruguay uzbekistan vanuatu venezuela, bolivarian republic of viet nam virgin islands, british virgin islands, u.s. wallis and futuna western sahara yemen zambia zimbabwe submit already registered? sign in general info message no email? contact us. version client login contacts toggle navigation features pricing support forum extras order now home features search features created with love directadmin offers 3 access levels: admin, reseller, user. you can even add a fourth e-mail level supported by an official free plugin. please see below for the features provided by each access level and general features of directadmin. for a full list of software which is supported on directadmin servers please visit supported services page. to vote on features you'd like to be added, please see feedback.directadmin.com. administrator features create / modify admins and resellers admins can create resellers or extra admins quickly and easily with this feature. reseller packages admins can create predefined account packages using this feature. when creating an account, the admin simply chooses a package instead of manually setting each account feature. show all users this feature allows the admin to quickly view every single account on the system and sort this list in various ways. dns administration this feature allows the admin to create, modify, or delete any dns records on the server. ip manager this is where the admin sets the ip address available to the server. the admin can also allocate ip address to resellers from this menu. mail queue administration tool to view mail queue and it's messages. includes tools to take action on those messages. system / services info the admin can view, stop, start, and restart services from this menu. complete usage statistics this feature provides the admin with a complete overview of system usage. exact input and output from the server's ethernet card is also monitored. dns clustering directadmin talks to other directadmin machines to automatically transfer dns data between them. it also has the ability to check the other server for a domain so as to not allow duplicate domains on your da network. spam fighting tools in directadmin a wide varienty of spam-fighting tools are provided with directadmin. please check http://help.directadmin.com/item.php?id=577 for a full list. licensing / updates the admin can view his or her license status and download the latest directadmin security and software upgrades from this menu. reseller features create / list / modify accounts account creation, listing, modification, and deletion is done quickly and easily. user packages resellers can create predefined account packages using this feature. when creating an account, the reseller simply chooses a package instead of manually setting each account feature. reseller statistics resellers are provided with a complete overview of their total usage. resellers may also sort data by users to quickly assess the overall situation. message all users resellers can quickly send a message to all their customers by using directadmin's built in ticket support system. import / manage skins with this menu option, resellers can quickly import and apply new skins with the click of a button. ip assignment resellers can allocate ip address to their customers by using this menu option. system / services information by clicking this feature, resellers have instant access to server status and system information. name servers resellers can create personalized nameservers for their customers from this menu. user features e-mail administration users can create pop/imap accounts, catch-all e-mail addresses, forwarders, mailing lists, autoresponders, and webmail. filters allow users to block mail by domain, keyword, and size. adult filter is also available. ftp management users can create ftp accounts and set directory permissions for each account. anonymous ftp is also supported. dns menu users can can add and remove records, change mx settings, and anything else that goes with full dns control. statistics menu users have available every possible statistic about their account. more advanced options and webalizer are also included. subdomains menu users can list, create, delete, and get statistics on subdomains. file manager a user-friendly and fast alternative to ftp. includes every feature needed to build and maintain a web site. mysql databases users can easily create, modify, and delete mysql databases from this menu. site backup using this powerful tool, users can backup and restore only what they want to. for example, account data but not web site files. error pages users can create custom messages and outputs for 401, 403, 404, and 500 error codes. directory password protection users can password protect any directory with a username and password. php selector allows the client to select which version of php should be associated with the .php extension. advanced tools users can install ssl certificates, view sever information and installed perl modules, set cron jobs, mime types, and apache handlers, and enable site redirection and domain pointers. general features integrated ticket support system with directadmin's integrated ticket support system, you'll provide better customer service with less hassle. "you have xx messages waiting" is displayed every time you sign in -- and you can set directadmin to notify you of support requests by e-mail, ensuring that no request will be missed. if you prefer to offer support in a different way, simply turn this feature off. two-factor authentication allows any directadmin account to require the two-factor authentication using a time-based code from a smart-phone app. plugin system allows to extend directadmin functionality easily. plugins support admin, reseller and user levels. live updates server administrators can click the "licensing / updates" button to view the current license and version status. there is no need to manually download, extract, and install - directadmin performs all updates automatically. completely customizable directadmin is designed to be as unique as your business. every aspect of the directadmin interface can be changed, and new designs are easily imported through the "skins" menu. automatic recovery from crashes directadmin taskqueue ensures that all services are up, all of the time. if something crashes, directadmin will attempt to fix the problem by restarting the service. if this fails, directadmin will notify the server administrator immediately. we support your customers through site-helper site-helper is designed to help you and your customers use directadmin. we provide full instructions on every directadmin feature, along with plenty of pictures and examples. interested to try directadmin? get a 30-day free trial! order now versions knowledge base forum site-helper translations policies support contacts 2016 jbmc software, suite 173 3-11 bellerose drive, st albert, ab t8n 1p7 canada. mon - fri 9am - 5pm mst