skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download disable search by scott reilly details reviews installation support development description prevent wordpress from allowing and handling any search requests for the site. specifically, this plugin: prevents the search form from appearing if the theme uses the standard get_search_form() function to display the search form. prevents the search form from appearing if the theme uses a searchform.php template prevents the search item from appearing in the admin tool bar when shown on the front-end. disables the search widget. removes the search widget from the list of available widgets deactivates any search widgets currently in use in any sidebars (they are hidden, not deleted; they’ll still be in the proper locations if this plugin gets deactivated) with or without the search form, the plugin prevents any direct or manual requests by visitors, via either get or post requests, from actually returning any search results. submitted attempts at a search will be given a 404 file not found response, rendered by your site’s 404.php template, if present. the plugin only affects search on the front-end of the site. it does not disable searching in the admin section of the site. links: plugin homepage | plugin directory page | github | author homepage installation install via the built-in wordpress plugin installer. or download and unzip disable-search.zip inside the plugins directory for your site (typically wp-content/plugins/) activate the plugin through the ‘plugins’ admin menu in wordpress faq will this disable the search capabilities in the admin section of the blog? no. will this prevent google and other search engines from searching my site? no. this only disables wordpress’s capabilities with regards to search. why do i still see a search form on my site despite having activated this plugin? the most likely cause for this is a theme that has the markup for the search form hardcoded into one or more of the theme’s template files (excluding searchform.php). this is generally frowned upon nowadays (the theme should be calling get_search_form() or using searchform.php to get the search form). there is no way for this plugin to prevent this hardcoded form from being displayed. however, even if this is the case, the form won’t work (thanks to this plugin), but it will still be displayed. is this plugin gdpr-compliant? yes. this plugin does not collect, store, or disseminate any information from any users or site visitors. does this plugin include unit tests? yes. reviews perfect plugin harry july 28, 2019 does what it says. no options is much better. good!! intenni october 8, 2018 good!! awesome, finally able to disable search!!! cpowersgeoshack may 19, 2017 thank god i can finally stop hacker wannabes from trying to hack through the search. on and my google maps works just fine, so not sure why the other guys does not. breaks jetpack gallery and google maps api odw2017 april 25, 2017 does a good job of disabling search, but also disables jetpack slideshow gallery and the google maps api (via unyson builder). cool! eugene kopich january 15, 2017 very useful for certain type of websites! is it ok for wp 4.7 and after? nice but… cbservices september 3, 2016 nice plugin but when using buddypress and you are logged in there still is a search at the right top of your page (wordpress admin bar). read all 9 reviews contributors & developers “disable search” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors scott reilly “disable search” has been translated into 3 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “disable search” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.7.2 (2019-12-12) change: note compatibility through wp 5.3+ change: unit tests: change method signature of assertquerytrue() to match parent’s update to use the spread operator change: update copyright date (2020) 1.7.1 (2019-06-17) unit tests: change: update unit test install script and bootstrap to use latest wp unit test repo new: test that the plugin hooks plugins_loaded for initialization change: note compatibility through wp 5.2+ change: add link to changelog.md in readme.md 1.7 (2019-03-27) new: add changelog.md file and move all but most recent changelog entries into it change: initialize plugin on ‘plugins_loaded’ action instead of on load change: merge do_init() into init() unit tests: fix: discontinue testing deprecated is_comments_popup condition fix: use file_exists() instead of locate_template() to verify presence of file in theme (the latter is unreliable since it is based on constants) change: note compatibility through wp 5.1+ change: add readme.md link to plugin’s page in plugin directory change: update copyright date (2019) change: update license uri to be https change: split paragraph in readme.md’s “support” section into two full changelog is available in changelog.md. meta version: 1.7.2 last updated: 4 months ago active installations: 20,000+ wordpress version: 4.6 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 languages: see all 4 close czech, dutch, english (us), and german. translate into your language tags: coffee2codedisablesearch advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 7 4 stars 1 3 stars 0 2 stars 0 1 star 1 contributors scott reilly support issues resolved in last two months: 1 out of 1 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.