editors’ picks inspiration topics about menu discover editors’ picks inspiration topics about we collect the best content published with wordpress. what’s your story? create your blog or website at wordpress.com mapping 2019-ncov an interactive web-based dashboard to track covid-19 in real-time, courtesy of the center for systems science and engineering at john hopkins university. visit site pigeon presents: illustrator mo willems pigeon presents is the website of mo willems, a best-selling and award-winning author and illustrator. he has gained recognition recently for his “lunch doodles” sessions on youtube, where he (virtually) invites kids — who are currently stuck at home — into his studio to draw with him. visit site john j. lennon — prison journalist john j. lennon is currently serving a sentence of 28-years-to-life at sing sing prison. he is a contributing editor for esquire magazine, a contributing writer for the marshall project, and the host for the podcast this is a collect call from sing sing. visit site editors' pickssee all commuting in corona times artist kera till draws a public transportation map for these strange, uncertain times. art kera till by kera till the scrappy picture schedule might save us — parenting in a pandemic “and it also helped me, who needed direction to get through the otherwise shapeless day.” heather kirn lanier shares how a picture schedule helped her and her daughter create structure in their day. current events star in her eye by heather kirn lanier why we’re canceling our trip to kauai: an exponential essay “each of the paragraphs i’ve written represents three days, and each word represents a person in the united states infected with covid-19. . . . if i continued to follow the formula of this piece: paragraph 17 would be 65,536 words long–about the length of my first book.” current events kelsey timmerman by kelsey virtual tea towel museum barbara howard, the curator of the virtual tea towel museum, has over a thousand tea towels, and every single once comes with a story. commentary topicssee all illustration commuting in corona times artist kera till draws a public transportation map for these strange, uncertain times. which comics should you read in 2020? here are some ideas. comics and graphic-novels fans, rejoice! at the drunken odyssey, drew barth recommends some of the most anticipated titles of 2020 — the ones that will set the tone for an entire decade of visual storytelling. cut from the same cloth “for all i say i’m envious of my daughter’s freedoms, perhaps the older woman has more leeway, more agency.” artist myfanwy tristram was irritated by her teenage daughter’s extreme fashions — until she took an illustrated journey into their origins. home is a mug of coffee “just like the countless options on my office’s hot drinks machine, i fell in love with a fresh sense of possibility — that there was more than one way to live my life.” in this illustrated longread, candace rose rardon reflects on coffee, life, and finding herself, no matter where she is in the world. photography syria, nine grueling years john wreford remembers the syrian war which started nine years ago. “i left everything. i gave the keys to the house i had bought to a displaced family and crossed the border into lebanon and then onto turkey to start again.” pretty little london pretty little london is a visual guide to london, showcasing high-end things to do in the city, luxury hotels and restaurants, and instagrammable spots. it is a site companion to the popular instagram account @prettylittlelondon. blackbird cafe “my story is: i’m doing what i’ve always wanted to do – own a restaurant that has heart, in the heart of a great neighborhood.” debbie’s website reflects her cozy restaurant with a blog, menus, and gallery of all the fascinating food — soy chorizo wrap anyone? 15 unusual animal friendships that will melt your heart this valentine’s day we are celebrating with a heartwarming post from the boredpanda blog — proving that even the most unlikely pairs can find love. discover follow discover on wordpress.com editors’ picks inspiration topics about from the editors the wordpress.com blog the daily post blogging university longreads latest on twitter my tweets create your blog or website at wordpress.com an publication brought to you by wordpress.com