skip to content college info geek disclosures, terms, conditions, and privacy policy menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search disclosures, terms, conditions, and privacy policy dear reader, college info geek is my business. i actually earn pretty much all of my money through the work i do on this site. as my business is based around trust that my readers have in me, i want to be as clear as possible as to what i do and how i earn my dolla bills. i earn money on this site in several ways, including: sales of my own products affiliate commissions youtube advertisements partnerships i participate in a few affiliate programs, including (but not limited to) amazon, hostgator, namecheap, and lynda. all of the products i receive affiliate commissions for are ones that i believe in whole-heartedly and in most cases use myself. in the case of partnerships with companies, i only agree to a partnership if i believe in the product and the company itself. past partnerships have included adobe, sony, and vonage. content disclaimer no rendering of advice everything on this site is provided for informational purposes and should be taken as the opinion of the writer. i am not an expert on anything. nothing on this site should be considered professional advice or taken as a substitute for obtaining professional advice. my articles are based on research from books and blogs along with self-experimentation. i make reasonable efforts to make sure the information i present is accurate and up-to-date, but i do not warrant that any of that information is accurate, complete, reliable, error-free, or current. i assume no responsibility for any errors or omissions in any content presented on this site or any other platform i upload content to, or any links to any other web resources in any of my content. everything you try out for yourself should be contingent upon your own research and good judgement. if you’re thinking about making a big change in your life due to a post written here, consider asking a professional’s advice first. privacy policy view the full privacy policy note: if you wish to opt-out of google analytics tracking, you may do so here. terms of service by using and accessing this website, https://collegeinfogeek.com (collectively referred to as the “site” or “college info geek” in these terms of service), you (“you”, “user” or, “end user”) agree to these terms of service (collectively, the “terms of service” or “agreement”). if you do not agree to the terms of this agreement, immediately stop accessing this site. you agree not to modify, copy, distribute, transmit, display, perform, reproduce, publish, license, transfer, create derivate work from, sell or re-sell any content or information obtained from or through the site. third-party sites. the site may contain links to other websites maintained by third-parties. these links are provided solely as a convenience and does not imply endorsement of, or association with, the party by college info geek. modifications to this agreement. college info geek reserves the right to change or modify any of the terms and conditions contained in this agreement at any time. you acknowledge and agree that it is your responsibility to review the site and these terms of service from time to time. your continued use of the site after such modifications to this agreement will constitute acknowledgment of the modified terms of service and agreement to abide and be bound by the modified terms of service. termination of use. college info geek shall have the right to immediately terminate or suspend, in its discretion, your access to all or part of the site with or without notice for any reason. limitation of liability. in no event shall college info geek or its affiliates be liable for any indirect, incidental, special, punitive damages or consequential damages of any kind, or any damages whatsoever arising out of or related to your use of the site, the content and other information obtained therein. certain jurisdictions prohibit the exclusion or limitation of liability for consequential or incidental damages, thus the above limitations may not apply to you. governing law. any disputes arising out of or related to these terms of service and/or any use by you of the site shall be governed by the laws of the usa, without regard to the conflicts of laws provisions therein. date of last update. this agreement was last updated on january 21, 2013. published with permission from the termsfeed “terms of service”” generator. more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.