skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources disclaimer and privacy policy disclaimer mirandamarquit.com is intended for general information and entertainment purposes. this information does not constitute professional financial, business or investment advice. please do your own research and/or consult with financial and investment professionals for advice regarding your specific situation. in accordance with ftc guidelines, mirandamarquit.com discloses that the site has financial relationships with some of the companies mentioned in this web site. this may include receiving access to free products and services for product and service reviews and giveaways, as well as receiving affiliate compensation for products mentioned on this site. any references to third party products, rates, or web sites are subject to change without notice. mirandamarquit.com will attempt to maintain current information, but due to the rapidly changing environment, some information may have changed since it was published. please engage in the appropriate research before participating in any third party offers. privacy policy the privacy of our visitors to mirandamarquit.com is important to me. i recognize that privacy of your personal information is important. here is information on what types of personal information we receive and collect when you use and visit mirandamarquit.com, and how we safeguard your information. we never sell your personal information to third parties. log files as with most other websites, we collect and use the data contained in log files. the information in the log files include your ip (internet protocol) address, your isp (internet service provider, such as aol or shaw cable), the browser you used to visit our site (such as internet explorer or firefox), the time you visited our site and which pages you visited throughout our site. cookies and web beacons we do use cookies to store information, such as your personal preferences when you visit our site. this could include only showing you a popup once in your visit, or the ability to login to some of our features, such as forums. we also use third party advertisements on mirandamarquit.com to support our site. some of these advertisers may use technology such as cookies and web beacons when they advertise on our site, which will also send these advertisers (such as google through the google adsense program) information including your ip address, your isp , the browser you used to visit our site, and in some cases, whether you have flash installed. this is generally used for geotargeting purposes (showing toronto real estate ads to someone in toronto, for example) or showing certain ads based on specific sites visited (such as showing cooking ads to someone who frequents cooking sites). doubleclick dart cookies we also may use dart cookies for ad serving through google's doubleclick, which places a cookie on your computer when you are browsing the web and visit a site using doubleclick advertising (including some google adsense advertisements). this cookie is used to serve ads specific to you and your interests (“interest based targeting”). the ads served will be targeted based on your previous browsing history (for example, if you have been viewing sites about visiting las vegas, you may see las vegas hotel advertisements when viewing a non-related site, such as on a site about hockey). dart uses non personally identifiable information. it does not track personal information about you, such as your name, email address, physical address, telephone number, social security numbers, bank account numbers or credit card numbers. you can opt-out of this ad serving on all sites using this advertising by visiting http://www.doubleclick.com/privacy/dart_adserving.aspx you can choose to disable or selectively turn off our cookies or third-party cookies in your browser settings, or by managing preferences in programs such as norton internet security. however, this can affect how you are able to interact with our site as well as other websites. this could include the inability to login to services or programs, such as logging into forums or accounts. deleting cookies does not mean you are permanently opted out of any advertising program. unless you have settings that disallow cookies, the next time you visit a site running the advertisements, a new cookie will be added. information collected by third-parties. we may allow third-party companies that use tracking technologies, such as cookies or pixels, to record ip information about users who visit or interact with our website. our website does not provide any personal information to these third parties. this information allows them to deliver targeted advertisements and gauge their effectiveness. some of these third-party advertising companies may be advertising networks that are members of the network advertising initiative which offers a single location to opt-out of ad targeting from member companies. primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com