search join our facebook community discover the secrets of productive bloggers imagine getting inside the heads of nine successful bloggers. right inside, where all their productivity secrets live. could you handle the blogging power that would bring? if you’re ready, then we’d like you to meet our brand new ebook… blog wise: how to do more with less if you are juggling work, family, social life and trying to keep your blog going – this ebook will show you how the pros make every minute count. you see blogging is a fun, but complex job, with a lot of moving parts. in any given day a blogger can be writing posts, moderating comments, tweaking their blog design, reading other blogs… and that’s without considering any of the tasks that daily life throws their way. this ebook provides a rare opportunity to get a behind the scenes look at the organised lives of some of the blogosphere’s leading lights. we guarantee that in these interviews, you’ll find some fresh ideas that you’ll be able to use straight away. here’s your all-star line-up in this ebook each of these bloggers have dedicated a chapter to sharing with you their secrets to becoming prolific, without finding that elusive 25th hour in the day. the ebook then wraps up all the juicy tips into a simple nine-step program to radically improve your productivity. put simply: this ebook is going to make the little time you have to blog, much more effective. special bonus: productivity problem solver as a special bonus when you order blog wise, you’ll also score a bonus pdf problem solver guide. it covers 21 common productivity problems bloggers face with some quick answers from the interviewed bloggers to get you on the right track. can’t get motivated? see what jeff goins has to say having trouble focusing? gretchen rubin shares a tip can’t keep track of post ideas? amy porterfield shares her quick tip got writers block? darren rowse and heather armstrong share what they do got an opportunity that you’re not sure what to do with? abby larson gives you some questions to ask yourself thinking of building a team but unsure how to keep it productive? brian clark shares some thoughts feeling overwhelmed? leo babauta will get you on track with his wisdom been putting stuff off? matt kepnes tells you how he gets things done about the featured bloggers the nine bloggers featured in blog wise collectively have decades of blogging experience, tens of millions of monthly readers, are prolific producers of content and are actively engaging on social networks. we’ve also chosen bloggers who not only run successful blogs – but who also juggle being parents, business owners, authors and in some cases other employment. darren rowse: owner of digital photography school and problogger, author, social media addict and husband and dad to 3 boys. amy porterfield: author, prolific on social media, contributor to numerous blogs, speaker, mom and much more. brian clark: founder of copyblogger media which includes copyblogger the blog, studiopress themes, premise, scribe and more. abby larson: founder of style me pretty – a network of 12 sites which she manages with her husband tait. matt kepnes: founder of nomadic matt’s travel site – constantly on the road travelling heather armstrong: founder of dooce, author of numerous books, mother of 2 kids (and 2 dogs) jeff goins: blogging at goins writer, writing a book, husband and…. he works a full time job gretchen rubin: founder of the happiness project blog, author of 4 books, wife and mother of 2 daughters. leo babauta: founder of zen habits and numerous other projects, author, minimalist and father of 6 kids. download your copy today 60 day money-back guarantee if you are not satisfied with the blog wise ebook and bonus problem solver pdf after 60 days just let me know and i’ll refund your money – that’s how confident i am that this is a resource that will help you become a more productive blogger. recently at the job board email marketer - reach a big audience and make a positive impact expert tech blog writer finance or seo specialist writer wanted fitness & lifestyle bloggers wanted! [european] content writer for adult toy website problogger top articles how to start a blog how to create great blog content how to find readers for your blog 7 strategies to build community on your blog how to make money blogging 5 ways to make your blogging life easier top resources 31 days to build a better blog problogger’s guide to your first week of blogging problogger’s guide to blogging for your business blog wise: how to do more with less the blogger’s guide to online marketing recommended blogging resources about blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses speaking privacy terms contact copyright © 2020 problogger.com · all rights reserved