skip to content skip to footer nia shanks health and fitness information that doesn't suck newsletter start here starter guide finally get results course articles all articles audio articles about shop books workout programs apparel login my profile disclaimer nia shanks and ns fitness llc is not a doctor or registered dietitian. the contents on this website, emails sent via the newsletter, and products sold or suggested are not medical advice. you should not use any of the information on the website, any products sold, or the emails to attempt to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any conditions, health problems, or illnesses. contact your primary care physician for treatment and care. please know that the information posted on this blog is for information purposes only and is not medical advice. nia shanks and ns fitness llc is not liable, either expressly or in an implied manner, and is not responsible for any physical or emotion problems that could occur from the information on this website, e-mail newsletters, or products sold through this website, or recommended products. speak to your doctor before making any changes to your nutrition or work out habits. i’m not a doctor or dietitian, and the information on this website is not medical advice. all information is generalized, presented for informational purposes only, not medical advice, and presented “as is” without warranty or guarantee of any kind. readers are cautioned not to rely on this information as medical advice and to consult a qualified medical, dietary, fitness or other appropriate professional for their specific needs. this information has not been evaluated by the ftc, fda or any other government agency and that this information is not intended to “diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.” i make money from this website by selling my own products. on occasion i promote affiliate products and i do my best to point out the affiliate links, but this is the official ftc disclaimer. even though i occasionally promote affiliate products, i only include those i believe are awesome and can help you achieve your goals. nonetheless, i want to protect my butt and keep things simple so please assume that if i post a link to a product, service, webpage, or article that i may have received, or will receive, any and all of the following: (illustrations courtesy of louis gray and jeannine schafer) copyright notice nia shanks, ns fitness llc, and niashanks.com/liftlikeagirl.com. unauthorized use and/or duplication of this material without express and written permission from this site’s author and/or owner is strictly prohibited. excerpts and links may be used, provided that full and clear credit is given to nia shanks and niashanks.com or liftlikeagirl.com with appropriate and specific direction to the original content. terms of service: the following terms and conditions govern all use of the https://www.niashanks.com website and all content, services and products available at or through the website, including, but not limited to, associated blogs, forums, and websites (www.beautifulbadass.com, among others), taken together, the website. the website is owned and operated by nia shanks and ns fitness llc. the website is offered subject to our acceptance without modification of all of the terms and conditions contained herein and all other operating rules, policies (including, without limitation, nia shanks, ns fitness llc privacy policy) and procedures that may be published from time to time on this site by nia shanks/ns fitness llc. (collectively, the “agreement”). please read this agreement carefully before accessing or using the website. by accessing or using any part of the web site, you agree to become bound by the terms and conditions of this agreement. if you do not agree to all the terms and conditions of this agreement, then you may not access the website or use any services. if these terms and conditions are considered an offer by nia shanks/ns fitness llc, acceptance is expressly limited to these terms. the website is available only to individuals who are at least 13 years old. 1. responsibility of contributors. if you operate a blog, comment on a blog, post material to the website, post links on the website, or otherwise make (or allow any third party to make) material available by means of the website (any such material, “content”), you are entirely responsible for the content of, and any harm resulting from, that content. that is the case regardless of whether the content in question constitutes text, graphics, an audio file, or computer software. by making content available, you represent and warrant that: the downloading, copying and use of the content will not infringe the proprietary rights, including but not limited to the copyright, patent, trademark or trade secret rights, of any third party; if your employer has rights to intellectual property you create, you have either (i) received permission from your employer to post or make available the content, including but not limited to any software, or (ii) secured from your employer a waiver as to all rights in or to the content; you have fully complied with any third-party licenses relating to the content, and have done all things necessary to successfully pass through to end users any required terms; the content does not contain or install any viruses, worms, malware, trojan horses or other harmful or destructive content; the content is not spam, is not machine- or randomly-generated, and does not contain unethical or unwanted commercial content designed to drive traffic to third party sites or boost the search engine rankings of third party sites, or to further unlawful acts (such as phishing) or mislead recipients as to the source of the material (such as spoofing); the content is not libelous or defamatory, (does not contain threats or incite violence towards individuals or entities, and does not violate the privacy or publicity rights of any third party; your content is not getting advertised via unwanted electronic messages such as spam links on newsgroups, email lists, other blogs and web sites, and similar unsolicited promotional methods; your content is not named in a manner that misleads your readers into thinking that you are another person or company. for example, your blog or comment’s url or name is not the name of a person other than yourself or company other than your own; and you have, in the case of content that includes computer code, accurately categorized and/or described the type, nature, uses and effects of the materials, whether requested to do so by nia shanks/ns fitness llc or otherwise. without limiting any of those representations or warranties, nia shanks/ns fitness llc has the right (though not the obligation) to, in nia shanks/ns fitness llc sole discretion (i) refuse or remove any content that, in nia shanks/ns fitness llc reasonable opinion, violates any nia shanks/ns fitness llc policy or is in any way harmful or objectionable, or (ii) terminate or deny access to and use of the website to any individual or entity for any reason, in nia shanks/ns fitness llc sole discretion. 2. responsibility of website visitors. nia shanks/ns fitness llc has not reviewed, and cannot review, all of the material, including computer software, posted to the website, and cannot therefore be responsible for that material’s content, use or effects. by operating the website, nia shanks/ns fitness llc does not represent or imply that it endorses the material there posted, or that it believes such material to be accurate, useful or non-harmful. you are responsible for taking precautions as necessary to protect yourself and your computer systems from viruses, worms, trojan horses, and other harmful or destructive content. the website may contain content that is offensive, indecent, or otherwise objectionable, as well as content containing technical inaccuracies, typographical mistakes, and other errors. the website may also contain material that violates the privacy or publicity rights, or infringes the intellectual property and other proprietary rights, of third parties, or the downloading, copying or use of which is subject to additional terms and conditions, stated or unstated. nia shanks/ns fitness llc disclaims any responsibility for any harm resulting from the use by visitors of the website, or from any downloading by those visitors of content there posted. 3. content posted on other websites. we have not reviewed, and cannot review, all of the material, including computer software, made available through the websites and webpages to which niashanks.com links, and that link to niashanks.com. nia shanks/ns fitness llc does not have any control over those non-niashanks.com websites and webpages, and is not responsible for their contents or their use. by linking to a non-niashanks.com website or webpage, nia shanks/ns fitness llc does not represent or imply that it endorses such website or webpage. you are responsible for taking precautions as necessary to protect yourself and your computer systems from viruses, worms, trojan horses, and other harmful or destructive content. nia shanks/ns fitness llc disclaims any responsibility for any harm resulting from your use of non-niashanks.com websites and webpages. 4. copyright infringement and dmca policy. as nia shanks/ns fitness llc asks others to respect its intellectual property rights, it respects the intellectual property rights of others. if you believe that material located on or linked to by niashanks.com violates your copyright, you are encouraged to notify nia shanks/ns fitness llc in accordance with standard digital millennium copyright act (”dmca”) policy. nia shanks/ns fitness llc will respond to all such notices, including as required or appropriate by removing the infringing material or disabling all links to the infringing material. in the case of a visitor who may infringe or repeatedly infringes the copyrights or other intellectual property rights of nia shanks/ns fitness llc. or others, nia shanks/ns fitness llc may, in its discretion, terminate or deny access to and use of the website. in the case of such termination, nia shanks/ns fitness llc will have no obligation to provide a refund of any amounts previously paid to nia shanks/ns fitness llc. 5. intellectual property. this agreement does not transfer from nia shanks/ns fitness llc to you any nia shanks/ns fitness llc or third party intellectual property, and all right, title and interest in and to such property will remain (as between the parties) solely with nia shanks/ns fitness llc. nia shanks/ns fitness llc, niashanks.com, the “the lift like a girl” logo, and all other trademarks, service marks, graphics and logos used in connection with niashanks.com, or the website are trademarks or registered trademarks of nia shanks/ns fitness llc, nia shanks, or ns fitness llc’s licensors. other trademarks, service marks, graphics and logos used in connection with the website may be the trademarks of other third parties. your use of the website grants you no right or license to reproduce or otherwise use any nia shanks/ns fitness llc or third-party trademarks. you hereby grant nia shanks/ns fitness llc an irrevocable, perpetual, non-exclusive, transferable, fully paid, worldwide license (with the right to sublicense) to (a) use, copy, publish, stream, store, retain, publicly perform or display, transmit, scan, reformat, modify, edit, frame, translate, excerpt, adapt, create derivative works and distribute (through multiple tiers), any content you post on or in connection with the website or nia shanks/ns fitness llc services or the promotion thereof and (b) to use your name, likeness and image for any purpose, including commercial or advertising, each of (a) and (b) on or in connection with nia shanks/ns fitness llc or the promotion thereof. 6. changes. nia shanks/ns fitness llc reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to modify or replace any part of this agreement. it is your responsibility to check this agreement periodically for changes. your continued use of or access to the website following the posting of any changes to this agreement constitutes acceptance of those changes. nia shanks/ns fitness llc may also, in the future, offer new services and/or features through the website (including, the release of new tools and resources). such new features and/or services shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement. 7. termination. nia shanks/ns fitness llc may terminate your access to all or any part of the website at any time, with or without cause, with or without notice, effective immediately. if you wish to terminate this agreement, you may simply discontinue using the website. all provisions of this agreement which by their nature should survive termination shall survive termination, including, without limitation, ownership provisions, warranty disclaimers, indemnity and limitations of liability. 8. disclaimer of warranties. the website is provided “as is”. nia shanks/ns fitness llc and its suppliers and licensors hereby disclaim all warranties of any kind, express or implied, including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. nia shanks/ns fitness llc nor its suppliers and licensors, makes any warranty that the website will be error free or that access thereto will be continuous or uninterrupted. you understand that you download from, or otherwise obtain content or services through, the website at your own discretion and risk. 9. limitation of liability. in no event will nia shanks/ns fitness llc, or its suppliers or licensors, be liable with respect to any subject matter of this agreement under any contract, negligence, strict liability or other legal or equitable theory for: (i) any special, incidental or consequential damages; (ii) the cost of procurement or substitute products or services; (iii) for interruption of use or loss or corruption of data; or (iv) for any amounts that exceed the fees paid by you to nia shanks/ns fitness llc under this agreement during the twelve (12) month period prior to the cause of action. nia shanks/ns fitness llc shall have no liability for any failure or delay due to matters beyond their reasonable control. the foregoing shall not apply to the extent prohibited by applicable law. 10. general representation and warranty. you represent and warrant that (i) your use of the website will be in strict accordance with the nia shanks/ns fitness llc privacy policy, with this agreement and with all applicable laws and regulations (including without limitation any local laws or regulations in your country, state, city, or other governmental area, regarding online conduct and acceptable content, and including all applicable laws regarding the transmission of technical data exported from the united states or the country in which you reside) and (ii) your use of the website will not infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property rights of any third party. 11. indemnification. you agree to indemnify and hold harmless nia shanks/ns fitness llc, its contractors, and its licensors, and their respective directors, officers, employees and agents from and against any and all claims and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, arising out of your use of the website, including but not limited to out of your violation this agreement. (this terms of service was provided courtesy of wordpress.com) footer if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. fields marked with a * are required. join the revolution get updates, insider-only information, and a free gift. if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. facebook instagram twitter youtube search this website © 2020 nia shanks · privacy policy · disclaimer newsletter you’re here for a reason contact store