disclaimer – lifestyle by ps
  home sweatshirts t-shirts blog expand submenu blog collapse submenu blog fashion fitness grooming log in create account cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us your cart close cart site navigation home sweatshirts t-shirts blog fashion fitness grooming log in search cart cart disclaimer please note that ps lifestyle (and lifestyle media llc)1 has financial relationships with some of the merchants mentioned on this blog. ps lifestyle (and lifestyle media llc) may be compensated if consumers choose to utilize the links located throughout the content on this site and generate sales for the said merchant. ps lifestyle (and lifestyle media llc) is compensated for certain paid links and advertisements on this blog. you are not obligated to click on any link or buy any products that are advertised. per ftc guidelines, this website may be compensated by companies mentioned through advertising, affiliate programs, or otherwise. any references to third party products, rates, or websites are subject to change without notice. please do the appropriate research before participating in any third party offers. ps lifestyle is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. disclosure information presented on ps lifestyle is intended for informational and entertainment purposes only and is not meant to be taken as financial advice. the views expressed on this website are personal opinions only and should not be construed as financial advice for your given situation1. while all attempts are made to present accurate information, it may not be appropriate for your specific circumstances and information may become outdated over time. i am not a finance expert and you should seek out a professional before making any financial decisions. please make sure to do your own due dilligence and seek a trusted financial professional before making any financial decisions of your own. neither lifestyle media llc nor its members make any representations as to the validity, accuracy, completeness, or suitability of any claims made here. neither lifestyle media llc nor its members assume any liability with regard to financial results based on the use of the information provided here. furthermore, advertisers, commenters, and linked sites are solely responsible for their views and content – which do not necessarily represent the views of lifestyle media llc or its members. privacy policy ps lifestyle takes your privacy seriously. this privacy policy describes what personal information we collect and how we use it. routine information collection all web servers track basic information about their visitors. this information includes, but is not limited to, ip addresses, browser details, timestamps and referring pages. none of this information can personally identify specific visitors to this site. the information is tracked for routine administration and maintenance purposes. cookies and web beacons where necessary, ps lifestyle uses cookies to store information about a visitor’s preferences and history in order to better serve the visitor and/or present the visitor with customized content. advertising partners and other third parties may also use cookies, scripts and/or web beacons to track visitors to our site in order to display advertisements and other useful information. such tracking is done directly by the third parties through their own servers and is subject to their own privacy policies. controlling your privacy note that you can change your browser settings to disable cookies if you have privacy concerns. disabling cookies for all sites is not recommended as it may interfere with your use of some sites. the best option is to disable or enable cookies on a per-site basis. consult your browser documentation for instructions on how to block cookies and other tracking mechanisms. special note about google advertising any advertisements served by google, inc., and affiliated companies may be controlled using cookies. these cookies allow google to display ads based on your visits to this site and other sites that use google advertising services. learn how to opt out of google’s cookie usage. as mentioned above, any tracking done by google through cookies and other mechanisms is subject to google’s own privacy policies. unsubscribe or opt-out all users and/or visitors to our website have the option to discontinue receiving communication from us and/or reserve the right to discontinue receiving communications by way of email or newsletters. to discontinue or unsubscribe to our website please send an email that you wish to the email on our website. if you wish to unsubscribe or opt-out from any third party websites, you must go to that specific website to unsubscribe and/or opt-out. links to other web sites our website does contain links to affiliate and other websites. ps lifestyle does not claim nor accept responsibility for any privacy policies, practices and/or procedures of other such websites. therefore, we encourage all users and visitors to be aware when they leave our website and to read the privacy statements of each and every website that collects personally identifiable information. the aforementioned privacy policy agreement applies only and solely to the information collected by our website. security ps lifestyle shall endeavor and shall take every precaution to maintain adequate physical, procedural and technical security with respect to its offices and information storage facilities so as to prevent any loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure or modification of the user’s personal information under our control. acceptance of terms through the use of this website, you are hereby accepting the terms and conditions stipulated within the aforementioned privacy policy agreement. if you are not in agreement with our terms and conditions, then you should refrain from further use of our sites. in addition, your continued use of our website following the posting of any updates or changes to our terms and conditions shall mean that you are in agreement and acceptance of such changes. how to contact us if you have any questions or concerns regarding the privacy policy agreement related to our website, please feel free to contact us at the following email address. pslifestyle.india@gmail.com disclosure : lifestyle by ps is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us facebook twitter pinterest instagram google plus © 2020, lifestyle by ps ecommerce software by shopify paypal inr aud cad eur gbp usd search