skip to content skip to content menu start here blog podcast about categories ideas online business blogging self-publishing freelancing service businesses consulting coaching ecommerce amazon fba investing real estate peer-to-peer lending saving money hustle 101 productivity progress reports disclaimer any and all information provided by bryck media, llc dba side hustle nation (“we,” “us,” “our,””my,” “me,” or “i,”) on sidehustlenation.com (“site” or “website”) is for general informational and educational purposes only. this disclaimer, along with the terms of use and privacy policy, governs and controls your access to and use of sidehustlenation.com, including any and all services, content, and functionality offered on or through our website at sidehustlenation.com. we provided all the information and content on our website in good faith. however, we do not make any warranties of any kind, express or implied, regarding the accuracy, adequacy, validity, reliability, availability or completeness of any information on our site. we are not liable to you at any time for any loss or damage you may have experienced or incurred as a result of the use of our site or reliance on any information provided on our site. your access and use of our site and reliance on any information on the site is completely at your own risk. professional disclaimer our site cannot and does not contain any legal, medical, tax, financial, health, or any other professional advice. all of the information provided in our site is for general informational and educational purposes only. you should not take any information on our site as a substitute for professional advice. before taking action based on any such information, we encourage you to consult with the appropriate professionals. your access, use and reliance on any information provided on our site is solely at your own risk. disclaimer for external links from time to time our site may contain links to other external websites and third-parties. moreover, we may have ads and banners on our website that contain external links in them to third-party websites, products and companies. we do not check, control, validate, monitor or investigate such links for accuracy, adequacy, validity, reliability, availability or completeness. we do not warrant, endorse, guarantee or assume responsibility for any information or product offered by third-party websites. if you choose to click on links and be taken to an external website belonging to a third-party, then you and only are responsible and liable for your actions should you suffer or incur any harm or loss. we make no guarantees you acknowledge and agree that our company and website have not made any guarantees about the results of taking any action. regardless whether a product or service is recommended, we absolutely do not make any guarantees as to results. you understand and agree that what works for one person might not work for the other person. moreover, results are dependent on many different factors, and we cannot make any guarantees. whether you will succeed or fail ultimately is dependent on your own efforts, your particular situation, and numerous other circumstances that are beyond our control. affiliates disclaimer our website may contain links to affiliate websites. when and if you click on an affiliate link and make a purchase through that link, we will receive commission for any purchases made by you on the affiliate website using such links. your purchase through our affiliate links does not cost you anything extra other than what you’re already paying for the product or service. whenever we include an affiliate link on a page or post, we will let you know in advance so that you are aware that if you choose to click on the link and make a purchase, then we will receive a commission from that purchase. testimonial disclaimer our site may contain testimonials by actual users of our products and/or services. these testimonials reflect the actual user’s true and own opinions and experiences. we do not pay or manipulate these testimonials. they appear on our website verbatim as given to us by the users, except for the correction of grammar or typing errors. however, you agree and understand that the experiences are personal to those particular users, and it may not be representative of everyone’s experience with that product and/or service. your individual results may vary. contact we welcome you to contact us if you have any questions, concerns or comments regarding the terms in this agreement. bryck media, llc sidehustlenation.com 220 s. livermore ave #527 livermore ca 94551 privacy@sidehustlenation.com ********* last updated january 14, 2020. like that? there's more! join the 65,000 who get my best stuff via email i'll also send you my free guide: the 5 fastest ways to make more money. please enter your name. please enter a valid email address. i'm a hustler! you're in! make sure to check your email (including spam/promotions) for your free welcome gift. something went wrong. please check your entries and try again. usually hustling, occasionally social contact books write for us sponsor media terms of use | privacy | disclaimer | ccpa | do not sell my personal information © 2020 sidehustlenation.com we use cookies to to make sure you have the best experience on our website. cool?ok