skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download discussion board – wordpress forum plugin by plugin republic details reviews installation support development description discussion board is an easy way to add a forum to your wordpress site. it has a one-click installation and stacks of essential features that make it the leading wordpress forum plugin. in brief: users can register and log in via a front-end form users post new forum topics via a simple form each forum topic is displayed on its own page where other users can reply one-click installation discussion board has a unique, one-click set-up. when you activate the plugin, it will automatically create the three pages you need to get your wordpress forum up and running: a log-in page a page with a form for users to post new topics a page to view existing topics. your wordpress forum is up and running straightaway with no need to do any further configuration if you don’t want to. user management a key feature of discussion board is the ability to control separately who can view your wordpress forum and who can actually post to it. you can specify the required role for users to post new topics and, separately, you can specify the required role for users to view topics. so, for instance, you could allow anyone to view the content but only permit specific user roles to post content. registration you can specify which role new users will be assigned when they register. you can also require users to activate their registration by verifying their email address – this drastically reduces spam registrations. in the pro version, you also have the option to approve new registrations yourself if you want. front end log-in discussion board has a complete front-end registration and log-in system. you can choose whether to use the standard wordpress system or keep everything on the front-end. spam reduction as well as the restrictions over registration, you can limit the frequency that users can re-post. this will reduce possible spamming. as the owner of the site, you can also choose whether new topics should be published immediately or held as draft in order for you to moderate them. you can use standard wordpress settings to determine moderation levels for comments or set different rules for topics. even more, you can block specific email addresses or entire domains from being able to register accounts. styles discussion board is designed to work with any theme. you can update colors through the customizer. currently, there is a choice of three layouts, using either the standard wordpress archive layout from your theme or more classic forum layouts. discussion board should work out of the box with your theme. however, if you want to extend it and integrate it more closely, there are some optional templates supplied with the plugin that have hookable opening and closing wrapper tags so you can style the templates to match your theme. shortcodes discussion board has a number of shortcodes. some of these are installed automatically when you activate the plugin. others are optional for usage around your site, including: [discussion_board_form] – displays a form for users to post a new topic (automatically installed) [discussion_topics] – displays a list of all topics (automatically installed) [discussion_board_login_form] – displays a log-in and registration form for new users (automatically installed) [discussion_board_login_only] – displays a log-in form without a registration form [discussion_board_log_in_out] – displays a log-in / log-out link [is_logged_in] – use this shortcode to display content only to users who are logged in [not_logged_in] – display content only to users who are not logged in what can i use this for? you can use this plugin to create any type of forum that you like. typically, this would include: community forums school or other education sites training websites support forums discussion forums niche sites discussion groups question and answer sites technical forums ecommerce sites bulletin boards job boards wordpress forum plugin demo there’s a discussion board demo here. note that this demo includes some features only available with the pro version. feel free to register and post some sample content. wordpress forum theme although discussion board should work with pretty much any wordpress theme, we developed singularity – a free theme that integrates with discussion board. it’s available to download from the wordpress themes directory. why have a forum on my wordpress site? there are many, many reasons to want to install a wordpress forum plugin on your site. in brief, these might include: seo benefits – there are two key benefits to having a forum on your site. firstly, you are benefitting from user generated content, where your users are writing your content for you and coming up with all kinds of keywords you never would have included in your content yourself. secondly, users will spend longer on your site because of your forum, either writing their own posts or reading other people’s content. google considers dwell time on a website to be a key quality metric. get closer to your users – a forum is a priceless way of learning more about what makes your users tick, whether the forum is support-based or just a general community discussion board. market more effectively – when users register for your forum, they are providing you with their email address, meaning that you have a great opportunity to market directly to people you know are interested in your offering. if you’d like some more information about forums, what they are, and why you’d want one, there’s a substantial article on our website on how to add a forum in wordpress. documentation full documentation and guidance on getting started with the plugin and on its features is here. is there a pro version? oh yes, there’s a pro version to give you even more possibilities with your forum. features include: multiple discussion boards for different subjects set statuses for topics, e.g. ‘resolved’, ‘open’, etc categories and tags image uploads user profiles topic following (subscribe to topics) board following – subscribe to a board and get notified of all new topics and comments for that board board permissions – set topics within boards to be post-only (so no replies) or author-only (only the author can view replies) admin approvals – optionally require all new registrations to be approved by an admin wysiwyg editor check out the pro version here. screenshots discussion board list of topics (includes some pro features) example topic with replies (includes some pro features) installation from your dashboard go to plugins > add new search for ‘discussion board’ activate discussion board form the plugins page go to discussion board > settings to update any settings faq i’ve installed discussion board. now what do i do? discussion board will automatically install three pages for you: a page with a log-in and registration form a page with a form for users to post new topics a page listing existing topics there are further, detailed instructions for the free and pro versions on the website. where can i see a demo? there’s a demo here. note that this demo includes some features only available with the pro version. feel free to register and post some content so that you can see how it works from the user’s point of view. some users are reporting that they don’t receive an activation email in the first instance, ask them to check their spam/junk folders. if you’ve tested and you’re certain emails aren’t getting through, use the postman smtp plugin or similar to assist the delivery of email from your site. it’s a more reliable way of ensuring emails are sent and received. do i need to enable registration on my site? no. i see an error message about invalid post type. what’s that? in your dashboard, just go to settings > permalinks. then everything should be fine. help, i can’t seem to log out. why? we’ve included a helpful log-in / log-out shortcode to display a log-in / log-out link. use a plugin like shortcode widget and add the [discussion_board_log_in_out] shortcode to your sidebar or other widget area of your choice. the plugin also automatically displays a log-out link under the new topic form. my shortcodes display as shortcodes, not as the content they’re supposed to render. why? be careful if you are copying and pasting the shortcodes – you might need to delete <code> tags. click on the ‘text’ tab in your content editor to see if these tags are there. reviews lol nesdam1981 january 25, 2020 even the most basic features are locked behind the premium version. basic features that comes for free in many other forum plugins. would have loved it stormd october 11, 2019 this would have been perfect if i could control how topics are displayed via shortcode. or which topics are displayed. that's as far as i got. i loved the feel of it though. very simple to use wmercier september 23, 2019 love this plugin. simple to install as well as use. pretty much dummie proof easy to use and excellent support aaroncbw may 15, 2019 the plugin is really simple to set up and get going in minutes and works well. we noticed a slight bug/incompatibility when using the plugin with our theme and gareth went above and beyond to solve the issue for us. 100% recommended! i didn’t read the features throughly denemite june 1, 2018 was hoping for integrated search and sticky topics. does what it claims! excellent spymonde may 29, 2018 super customer service! recommend read all 28 reviews contributors & developers “discussion board – wordpress forum plugin” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors catapult_themes jf_bertrand “discussion board – wordpress forum plugin” has been translated into 5 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “discussion board – wordpress forum plugin” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 2.3.14, march 24, 2019 added: integration with invisible recaptcha plugin 2.3.13, may 15, 2019 fixed: duplicate topics updated: removed bullet points from divi navigation 2.3.12, april 14, 2019 added: ctdb_email_notification_publish_topic hook 2.3.11, april 12, 2019 added: ctdb_email_notification_new_topic hook updated: removed irritating bullet points from visual composer in pagination 2.3.10, april 9, 2019 updated: removed irritating bullet points from visual composer 2.3.9, march 11, 2019 added: option to hide registration form 2.3.8, february 18, 2019 updated: missing translatable strings in registration form updated: check for prevent_wp_admin_access not empty 2.3.7, november 11, 2018 fixed: updated links to support articles on about page fixed: divi formatting issues updated: removed tracking 2.3.6, september 11, 2018 updated: redirect admins to dashboard after logging in 2.3.5, february 20, 2018 added: email subject line filters 2.3.4, february 7, 2018 updated: tracking class for improved performance 2.3.3 – january 18, 2017 updated: broken link in readme file 2.3.2 – december 9, 2017 updated: admin update 2.3.1 – december 8, 2017 added: ctdb_filter_permitted_viewer_roles filter updated: ct_db_front_end::check_user_permission hooked to wp 2.3.0 – october 25, 2017 added: direct user to about page on activating plugin fixed: save additional user meta at user registration updated: default prevent_wp_admin_access value to 0 updated: admin notices 2.2.13 – october 23, 2017 updated: better sanitization for user registration 2.2.12 – october 16, 2017 added: minor css updates added: filter for empty comments file added: functions-registration.php file fixed: ensure filter_single_content is in loop fixed: removed multiple log-in forms 2.2.11 – june 29, 2017 fixed: redirect issue with resetting passwords 2.2.10 – june 7, 2017 added: wpautop on get_comment_text() in functions-skins.php 2.2.9 – april 25, 2017 added: ctdb_topic_date_time function added: $author parameter to ctdb_info_bar_table filter added: ctdb_get_most_recent_commenter function added: new parameters to ctdb_topic_body_fields filter added: new parameter to ctdb_topic_title_fields added: ctdb_filter_table_layout filter fixed: ensure admins can always access backend updated: replaced esc_url with esc_url_raw in login_user and redirect_to_login_page 2.2.8 – april 19, 2017 added: ctdb_comment_author_url filter fixed: incorrectly respecting display_as setting in comments fixed: incorrectly obtaining commenter’s website address updated: no longer send new topic notifications for trashed topics 2.2.7 – april 16, 2017 updated: removed color options from design tab 2.2.6 – april 12, 2017 fixed: converted empty $viewer_roles to array in function-user.php updated: plugin_usage_tracker to 1.0.2 2.2.5 – april 5, 2017 added: translation request fixed: parse error in comment author filter 2.2.4 – april 3, 2017 updated: better mobile layout updated: new comment notifications only on discussion-topics post type updated: pot file updated: moved ctdb_discussion_topics_shortcode_atts filter before extract (thanks jf_bertrand) updated: global notifications setting to prevent duplicate notifications updated: plugin title 2.2.3 – march 12, 2017 added: wpml support added: filterable front-end messages in functions-messages.php fixed: correctly insert default ctdb_options_settings values fixed: parse error for value in settings wysiwyg callback fixed: only filter display name for discussion topics post type fixed: translation issues with general settings messages updated: removed admin notices updated: removed actions in ct-db-admin-upgrades updated: used add_query_arg in wp_redirect in several locations updated: admins no longer redirected after logging in 2.2.2 – march 6, 2017 added: ctdb-actions-wrapper in class-ct-db-skins.php added: ctdb_meta_data_fields_filter filter in class-ct-db-skins.php added: ctdb_meta_data_field_titles_filter filter in class-ct-db-skins.php added: redirecting parameter to url after logging in fixed: respects enqueue_icons setting updated: rationalized css 2.2.1 – february 21, 2017 added: stripslashes in new topic $content fixed: deselecting checkboxes in settings fixed: display_user_name respected by comment author field updated: tracking code updated: code refactoring 2.2.0 – february 2, 2017 added: registration blacklist – block email addresses and domains from registering updated: tracking snippet 2.1.1 – january 24, 2017 added: simple comment editing support added: tracking 2.1.0 – january 16, 2017 added: customizer support added: color settings added: pass $class to ct_db_front_end::display_all_topics updated: code refactoring updated: use db_plugin_dir in template uploader 2.0.0 – january 6, 2017 added: automatic installation of shortcodes and pages added: theme detection and automatic formatting for some popular themes fixed: enable_notification_opt_out fixed: correctly hides log-in form when specified updated: changed directory structure updated: moved settings to topics admin page updated: renamed topics admin page to discussion board updated: renamed options tab to general 1.7.4 – january 3, 2017 fixed: version 1.7.3 – january 3, 2016 fixed: incorrect text domain for translations 1.7.2 – december 28, 2016 fixed: default settings not loading correctly 1.7.1 – december 23, 2016 added: new_topic_button shortcode linking to new topic page added: $atts parameter to ctdb_discussion_topics_shortcode_args added: global $ctdb_user_can_view variable added: number parameter for discussion_topics shortcode added: ctdb_new_topic_form_validation filter fixed: redirect page after log-in not working updated: globalized $ct_db_public, $ct_db_front_end variables updated: better topic form validation – doesn’t wipe all content when a field is missing 1.7.0 – december 9, 2016 added: ct_db_skins class to handle layout styles added: ct_db_admin_upgrades class for upgrades added: classic forum layout style added: conditional tags in the_content filters added: ‘voices’ count added: selectable meta data fields to display on single topic pages updated: topic information bar now described as topic meta data updated: info bar layout re-termed as ‘single topic layout’ updated: improved single topic meta data layout updated: icons no longer appear against poster name and topic date 1.6.1 – december 5, 2016 added: ctdb_discussion_topics_shortcode_orderby filter added: table output now filterable 1.6.0 – december 1, 2016 added: ctdb_discussion_topics_shortcode_args filter added: query parameters to discussion_topics shortcode updated: use strip_tags in notification email 1.5.1 added: ctdb_info_meta_wrap_after_replies filter on table layout fixed: pagination on discussion_topics shortcode on static homepage updated: admin notices 1.5.0 added: opt out feature – allows topic author to choose not to select notifications added: optional layouts for single.php added: avatar to shortcode table layout updated: include comment content in notification email updated: default layout is now table updated: disabled email_notification to avoid duplicate notifications 1.4.0 added: table layout 1.3.4 fixed: parse errors on failed log-in 1.3.3 fixed: missing filter to hide comments 1.3.2 fixed: email notifications for topics requiring moderation updated: registration field rendering method 1.3.1 added: action hook ctdb_start_new_topic_form added: extra shortcodes for log-in and registration forms added: shortcodes for logged in and non-logged in users added: filter author name in information bar added: admin notification class updated: additional front end styles updated: retain field values in unsuccessful registration form updated: validation message 1.3.0 added: filter for admin tabs added: 0 option for reposting delay added: ajax validation on registration form fixed: pagination issue with all topics shortcode on twenty sixteen theme updated: refactored code into smaller classes updated: notify admin of moderated comment updated: strip_shortcodes in posted content 1.2.0 added: flush rewrite rules on activation fixed: missing comment form fields 1.1.1 updated: tested to tag 1.1.0 added: hide log-in form option added: multiple filters added: new action hooks changed: email address must be specified for notifications to be sent fixed: replace comments template with empty file for excluded users fixed: correct path to plugin templates 1.0.9 fixed: missing assets in admin 1.0.8 fixed: missing assets in admin 1.0.7 fixed: closed <a> tag after lost password link 1.0.6 added: define email address to send notifications to 1.0.5 fixed: reset query in shortcode. 1.0.4 added: french translation (thanks to oazar) added: russian translation 1.0.3 changed: updated plugin for better translation support 1.0.2 change: defined constant for plugin directory fix: incorrect post type in shortcode queries 1.0.1 fix: incorrect post type in notification email to admin 1.0.0 first commit meta version: 2.3.14 last updated: 3 days ago active installations: 2,000+ wordpress version: 4.3 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 php version: 5.2.4 or higher languages: see all 6 close czech, dutch, english (uk), english (us), hebrew, and slovak. translate into your language tags: forum pluginwordpress forumwordpress forum plugin advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 25 4 stars 1 3 stars 1 2 stars 0 1 star 1 contributors catapult_themes jf_bertrand support issues resolved in last two months: 3 out of 4 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.