home about shop press media kit contact teach mama learning in the every day | teachmama.com provides the tools and resources parents need to be the best teachers for their children | by amy mascott early literacy alphabet beginning sounds phonics phonological awareness read-aloud learning rhyming sight words reading books comprehension activating schema connecting inferring predicting questioning retelling / summarizing visualizing concepts of print environmental print fluency non-fiction spelling word building word consciousness vocabulary writing creative writing grammar informative writing tripod grip math computation counting numbers science animals plants science experiments for kids activities birthdays cooking new for us foods crafts foundations colors critical thinking fine arts listening pretend play sorting speaking holidays new year’s valentine’s day president’s day st. patrick’s day april fool’s day easter mother’s day teacher appreciation father’s day july 4th halloween thanksgiving christmas family life family fun giving back lunchbox love notes school indoor activities outdoor activities digital literacy computer time ipad for learning disclaimer share tweet pin email print privacy policy | disclaimer | terms of use this website is owned and operated by teach mama media, llc. (“company,” “we,” or “us”). this disclaimer, along with the terms of use and privacy policy, governs your access to and use of http://teachmama.com including any content, functionality and services offered on or through http://teachmama.com (the “website”), whether as a guest or a registered user. please read the disclaimer carefully before you start to use the website. by using the website or by clicking to accept or agree to the terms of use when this option is made available to you, you accept and agree to be bound and abide by the disclaimer. if you do not want to agree to the privacy policy, you must not access or use the website. for educational and informational purposes only the information contained on this website and the resources available for download through this website are for educational and informational purposes only. not financial advice the information contained on this website and the resources available for download through this website is not intended as, and shall not be understood or construed as, financial advice. while the professional at the company are finance professionals and the information provided on this website relates to financial issues, the information contained on this website is not a substitute for financial advice from a professional who is aware of the facts and circumstances of your individual situation. we have done our best to ensure that the information provided on this website and the resources available for download are accurate and provide valuable information. regardless of anything to the contrary, nothing available on or through this website should be understood as a recommendation that you should not consult with a financial professional to address your particular information. the company expressly recommends that you seek advice from a professional. neither the company nor any of its employees or owners shall be held liable or responsible for any errors or omissions on this website or for any damage you may suffer as a result of failing to seek competent financial advice from a professional who is familiar with your situation. not medical or health advice the information contained on this website and the resources available for download through this website is not intended as, and shall not be understood or construed as, medical or health advice. while the professional at the company address health issues and the information provided on this website relates to medical and/or health issues, the information contained on this website is not a substitute for medical or health advice from a professional who is aware of the facts and circumstances of your individual situation. we have done our best to ensure that the information provided on this website and the resources available for download are accurate and provide valuable information. regardless of anything to the contrary, nothing available on or through this website should be understood as a recommendation that you should not consult with a medical or health professional to address your particular information. the company expressly recommends that you seek advice from a professional. neither the company nor any of its employees or owners shall be held liable or responsible for any errors or omissions on this website or for any damage you may suffer as a result of failing to seek competent medical or health advice from a professional who is familiar with your situation. not professional advice the information contained on this website and the resources available for download through this website is not intended as, and shall not be understood or construed as, professional advice. while the employees and/or owners of the company are professionals and the information provided on this website relates to issues within the company’s area of professionalism, the information contained on this website is not a substitute for advice from a professional who is aware of the facts and circumstances of your individual situation. we have done our best to ensure that the information provided on this website and the resources available for download are accurate and provide valuable information. regardless of anything to the contrary, nothing available on or through this website should be understood as a recommendation that you should not consult with a professional to address your particular information. the company expressly recommends that you seek advice from a professional. neither the company nor any of its employees or owners shall be held liable or responsible for any errors or omissions on this website or for any damage you may suffer as a result of failing to seek competent advice from a professional who is familiar with your situation.] no professional-client relationship your use of this website – including implementation of any suggestions set out in this website and/or use of any resources available on this website – does not create a professional-client relationship between you and the company or any of its professionals. the company cannot accept you as a client unless and until we determine that there is a fit and until various requirements, such as fee arrangements, are resolved. thus, you recognize and agree that we have not created any professional-client relationship by the use of this website. user’s personal responsibility by using this website, you accept personal responsibility for the results of your actions. you agree to take full responsibility for any harm or damage you suffer as a result of the use, or non-use, of the information available on this website or the resources available for download from this website. you agree to use judgment and conduct due diligence before taking any action or implementing any plan or policy suggested or recommended on this website. no guarantees you agree that the company has not made any guarantees about the results of taking any action, whether recommended on this website or not. the company provides educational and informational resources that are intended to help users of this website succeed in life and otherwise. you nevertheless recognize that your ultimate success or failure will be the result of your own efforts, your particular situation, and innumerable other circumstances beyond the control and/or knowledge of the company. you also recognize that prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. thus, the results obtained by others – whether clients or customers of the company or otherwise – applying the principles set out in this website are no guarantee that you or any other person or entity will be able to obtain similar results. errors and omissions this world wide web site is a public resource of general information that is intended, but not promised or guaranteed, to be correct, complete, and up-to-date. we have taken reasonable steps to ensure that the information contained in this website is accurate, but we cannot represent that this website is free of errors. you accept that the information contained on this website may be erroneous and agree to conduct due diligence to verify any information obtained from this website and/or resources available on it prior to taking any action. you expressly agree not to rely upon any information contained in this website. reviews at various times, we may provide reviews of products, services, or other resources. this may include reviews of books, services, and/or software applications. any such reviews will represent the good-faith opinions of the author of such review. the products and services reviewed may be provided to the company for free or at a reduced price as an incentive to provide a review. regardless of any such discounts, we will provide honest reviews of these products and/or services. you recognize that you should conduct your own due diligence and should not rely solely upon any reviews provided on this website. we will disclose the existence of any discounts or incentives received in exchange for providing a review of a product. if you would like more information about any such discounts and incentives, send an email to amy@teachmama.com that includes the title of the reviewed product as the subject line. we will respond via email and disclose any incentives or discounts we received in association with any such review. affiliate links from time to time, the company participates in affiliate marketing and may allow affiliate links to be included on some of our pages. this means that we may earn a commission if/when you click on or make purchases via affiliate links. as a policy, the company will only affiliate with products, services, coaches, consultants, and other experts that we believe will provide value to our customers and followers. the company will inform you when one of the links constitutes an affiliate link. you recognize that it remains your personal responsibility to investigate whether any affiliate offers are right for your business and will benefit you. you will not rely on any recommendation, reference, or information provided by the company but will instead conduct your own investigation and will rely upon your investigation to decide whether to purchase the affiliate product or service. no endorsements from time to time, the company will refer to other products, services, coaches, consultants, and/or experts. any such reference is not intended as an endorsement or statement that the information provided by the other party is accurate. the company provides this information as a reference for users. it is your responsibility to conduct your own investigation and make your own determination about any such product, service, coach, consultant, and/or expert. testimonials at various places on this website, you may find testimonials from clients and customers of the products and services offered on this website or by the company. the testimonials are actual statements made by clients and/or customers and have been truthfully conveyed on this website. although these testimonials are truthful statements about results obtained by these clients and/or customers, the results obtained by these clients and/or customers are not necessarily typical. you specifically recognize and agree that the testimonials are not a guarantee of results that you or anyone else will obtain by using any products or services offered on this website or by the company. earnings disclaimer from time to time, the company may report on the success of one of its existing or prior clients/customers. the information about this success is accurately portrayed by the customer. you acknowledge that the prior success of others does not guarantee your success. as with any business, your results may vary and will be based on your individual capacity, business experience, expertise, and level of desire. there are no guarantees concerning the level of success you may experience. there is no guarantee that you will make any income at all and you accept the risk that the earnings and income statements differ by individual. each individual’s success depends on his or her background, dedication, desire and motivation. the use of our information, products and services should be based on your own due diligence and you agree that the company is not liable for any success or failure of your business that is directly or indirectly related to the purchase and use of our information, products, and services reviewed or advertised on this website. no warranties the company makes no warranties regarding the performance or operation of this website. the company further makes no representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, as to the information, contents, materials, documents, programs, products, books, or services included on or through this website. to the fullest extent permissible under the law, the company disclaims all warranties, express or implied, including implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. limitation of liability you agree to absolve the company of any and all liability or loss that you or any person or entity associated with you may suffer or incur as a result of use of the information contained on this website and/or the resources you may download from this website. you agree that the company shall not be liable to you for any type of damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental, equitable, or consequential loss or damages for use of this website. the information, software, products, and services included in or available through the website may include inaccuracies or typographical errors. changes are periodically added to the information herein. the company and/or its suppliers may make improvements and/or changes in the website at any time. the company and/or its suppliers make no representations about the suitability, reliability, availability, timeliness, and accuracy of the information, software, products, services and related graphics contained on the website for any purpose. to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, all such information, software, products, services and related graphics are provided “as is” without warranty or condition of any kind. the company and/or its suppliers hereby disclaim all warranties and conditions with regard to this information, software, products, services and related graphics, including all implied warranties or conditions of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title, and non-infringement. to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, in no event shall the company and/or its suppliers be liable for any direct, indirect, punitive, incidental, special, consequential damages or any damages whatsoever including, without limitation, damages for loss of use, data or profits, arising out of or in any way connected with the use or performance of the website, with the delay or inability to use the website or related services, the provision of or failure to provide services, or for any information, software, products, services and related graphics obtained through the website, or otherwise arising out of the use of the website, whether based on contract, tort, negligence, strict liability or otherwise, even if the company or any of its suppliers has been advised of the possibility of damages. because some states/jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or limitation of liability for consequential or incidental damages, the above limitation may not apply to you. if you are dissatisfied with any portion of the website, or with any of these terms of use, your sole and exclusive remedy is to discontinue using the website. contact us the company welcomes your questions or comments regarding the disclaimer: teach mama media, llc. p.o. box 1282 olney, maryland 20832 email address: amy@teachmama.com effective as of may 21, 2018 privacy policy | disclaimer | terms of use our books & freebies email sign-up: success! now quickly head over and check your email to confirm your subscription. you don't want to miss this! there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address subscribe archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 august 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 search this site tags 0-2 years 3-5 years 6-8 years 9-12 years alphabet behavior books cooking cool & creative counting crafts creative kids critical thinking digital literacy early literacy elementary schoolers family fun family life family time fine motor skills food games giveaway giving back gratitude holidays homework time indoor learning listening math middle schoolers new for us friday outdoor learning parenting preschoolers printables read-aloud learning reading school science speaking sponsored post summer fun vlogs writing instagram recent pins more pins you tube check out our channel! about contact disclaimer terms of use privacy policy site-map copyright © 2020 · teach mama media, llc · designed by smitten blog designs · privacy policy · log in