about shop blog book radical self love events about shop blog book radical self love events disclaimer galadarling.com is intended to provide entertainment and educational information on topics including fashion, style, beauty and self-improvement. the publisher (gala darling) is not engaged in rendering legal, medical, financial or other professional services. if expert assistance is required, please seek the help of a professional. the publisher has endeavoured to ensure that all material on this site is accurate — however, it should only be used as a guide, as it cannot be guaranteed that it is entirely free of error. the information on this website is provided “as is”. the author(s) and the publisher will assume no liability nor responsibility to any person or entity with respect to any loss or damage related directly or indirectly to the information on this website. no warranties of any kind, express or implied, are made. the publisher will provide no remedy for indirect, consequential, punitive or incidental damages arising from this website, including such from negligence, strict liability, or breach of warranty or contract, even after notice of the possibility of such damages. this website accepts various forms of cash advertising, sponsorship or other forms of compensation. while all of this advertising is clearly marked as such, the publisher does occasionally promote sales, special features or new products belonging to those advertisers. regardless of compensation, the author(s) will always give their honest opinions, findings, beliefs, or experiences on those topics or products. the views and opinions expressed on this website are purely those of the author(s). any product claim, statistic, quote or other representation about a product or service should be verified with the manufacturer, provider or party in question. any text, images or video featured here are attributed to the best of the publisher’s ability. if your work is uncredited, contact the publisher so it can be credited. if you would prefer for it not to be featured at all, make contact and it will be promptly removed. @galadarling on instagram load more... about shop blog book radical self love events instagram twitter facebook youtube pinterest contact love@galadarling.com subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content! © darling industries. all rights reserved. design and development by we are branch. | disclaimer subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content!