about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews disclaimer in compliance with the ftc guidelines and complete transparency for our readers, please assume the following about links and posts on this site: any/all of the links on wetheparents.org are affiliate links of which our website receives a small commission from sales of certain items, but the price is the always the same for you and this will never change. running a major authority site likewetheparents.org requires heavy resources on a day to day basis and as we are growing (providing you, the reader, with fresh content), affiliate links are a way we can help to offset those costs at no extra cost to the user. we appreciate the support of all our readers! wetheparents.org is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. pages on this site may include affiliate links to amazon and its affiliate sites on which the owner of this website will make a referral commission. amazon and the amazon logo are trademarks of amazon.com, inc, or its affiliates; our number one priority is providing parents a safe and valuable resource to help make informed decisions on the best products for their children and themselves. we would never recommend any products we didn’t feel did this. home disclaimer we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest