divi about divi the worlds #1 wordpress theme & visual page builder live builder demo try out the drag & drop page builder for free! layouts library preview 110+ premade websites & 880+ premade layouts plans & pricing 1 license. unlimited websites. unlimited users. documentation articles, tutorials, & help videos divi facebook group 46k facebook members & counting divi meetups attend or organize a divi meetup customer showcase real websites made by real people learn more about divi all products divi all in one theme the worlds #1 wordpress theme & visual page builder extra magazine theme the perfect theme for bloggers and online-publications divi builder plugin harness the power of divi with any wordpress theme. bloom email optin plugin the ultimate email opt-in plugin for wordpress monarch social media plugin built to get you more shares and more followers. join to download contact get in touch sales questions? accounts & billing technical support ask the community documentation chat with us! account account details my downloads customer support billing info username & api key manage membership logout my downloads username password forgot your username or password? pricing get divi today when you join! divi the most popular wordpress theme in the world and the ultimate wordpress page builder try it for free! build visually divi takes wordpress to a whole new level with its incredibly advanced visual builder technology you've never built a wordpress website like this before. divi is more than just a wordpress theme, it's a completely new website building platform that replaces the standard wordpress post editor with a vastly superior visual editor. it can be enjoyed by design professionals and newcomers alike, giving you the power to create spectacular designs with surprising ease and efficiency. build visually effects shape dividers bulk editing layout library transforms hover states find & replace the future of wysiwyg drag & drop building add, delete and move elements around on the front end of your website. no coding and no confusing back end options. true visual editing design your page in real time and see the results instantly. create and customize your pages using intuitive visual controls. custom css control developers can easily combine divi's visual design controls with their own custom css. divi's interface is simple yet not limiting. responsive editing building beautiful responsive websites is easy. divi is responsive by nature and also gives you full control over how your website looks on mobile devices. design options galore enjoy dozens of unique page elements and thousands of design options. divi gives you full design control over your website. inline text editing just click and start typing! editing your page has never been this easy. draft pages on the front end and see the results instantly as you type. save & manage your designs save and manage unlimited custom designs. easily re-use them to jump-start new pages. create advanced design systems and streamline your work flow. global elements & styles manage your entire website's design using global elements and website-wide design settings. divi isn't just a page builder, it's a website design system. undo, redo, & revisions divi works like a modern software application. easily undo, redo and travel through your entire editing history. if you make a mistake, divi has your back. divi is for everyone freelancers divi makes building websites for your clients so much easier, faster and more enjoyable. with divi, you can build anything using a single platform, instead of managing dozens of different themes. agencies divi makes building websites faster and more efficient. it will streamline your design process and improve team collaboration. it's also amazingly affordable. build unlimited websites for your clients on a single membership. website owners divi makes building websites easier. for beginners and website owners, divi gives you the freedom to bring your own visions to life. anyone can jump into divi thanks to its visual editor and hundreds of pre-made designs. 40+ website elements a module for everything call to actions blogs sliders galleries testimonials forms and more! try it for free 800+ pre-made designs 100+ full website packs over 800 pre-made website layouts come packaged right inside of divi for free. brand new layouts are added weekly along with royalty free photos, icons, and illustrations. learn how they work! business ecommerce technology events beauty services health view all! the complete wordpress design system is here complete design control divi isn't just a wordpress theme, it's a complete design framework that allows you to design and customize every part of your website from the ground up. you have control over everything down to the finest detail. create the perfect websites for you and your clients. optimize & convert divi not only comes with powerful design tools, it also helps you make your website a success. build your marketing lists with bloom pop-ups. promote your website on social media with monarch social sharing. increase website conversions with divi leads split testing. build websites faster if you are a web design professional, you will be amazed by divi's speed and efficiency. divi isn't just an easy-to-use website builder for beginners, it's an advanced design system that can help take your team's work flow to the next level. customization complete design control over everything hover state styling using hover options, you can create stunning hover effects and transform divi modules into fun and interactive elements. our hover option interface is unique and amazingly easy to use. every design setting in divi that supports transitions can now be customized on hover with ease. learn more play video responsive editing making responsive websites is easy with divi. divi is responsive by default, but takes responsive design a step further by giving you complete control over every design setting on each mobile device. this allows you to perfectly tailor the appearance of each element on computers, tablets and smart phones. learn more play video fonts & text styling enjoy a full range of text and font options. pick from hundreds of web fonts or upload your own. customize text sizes, letter spacing and line height. change font weights and text styling. control all standard text elements, such as anchor links, lists and block quotes. learn more play video shape dividers add custom shapes and effects to your pages, creating dynamic transitions between blocks of content and adding that extra bit of personal flare to your website. shape dividers can be placed above and below each section on your website, allowing you to easily build stunning transition effects between different parts of your page. learn more play video border options add borders to any element using divi's robust border editor. create rounded corners. control border sizes, colors and styles and create unique effects by adjusting each edge of your element individually. learn more play video transform controls & effects divi gives you the power to transform elements right on the page in ways that would typically only be possible in graphic design programs like photoshop and sketch. you can move elements around, scale them up and down, rotate on three different axis, as well as skew and adjust the transform origin with ease. all of this is done using a super slick interface that makes each transformation easy to perform and understand. learn more play video advanced code editing enjoy a fully-featured code editor that makes writing and editing code so much easier and enjoyable. features include syntax highlighting, error reporting, auto-complete, color picking, multi-line select, search, find and replace and more. add custom css to any element or add your own code to any page using the divi code module. learn more play video filters & effects easily adjust and enhance the appearance of any element using a range of filters and effects, including hue, saturation, brightness, contrast, invert, blur, opacity and sepia. create stunning designs using background blend modes. learn more play video drop shadows add depth to your page by creating custom drop shadows. you have full control over the size, position, color and intensity of the shadow. they're easy to create and you don't have to mess with any graphic design programs! learn more live examples play video text shadows create stunning text effects using text shadows. easily apply text shadows to any element using divi's simple presets, or create your own custom text shadows using the full set of controls. learn more live examples play video animations easily add animations to any element. apply simple animations using divi's animation presets, or build your own animations by customizing the animation type, speed and direction. wow your visitors as they scroll down the page with stunning animations that trigger when elements come into view. learn more live examples play video background images, colors, gradients, & videos apply custom background colors, background gradients, background images and background videos to any element. create fun overlapping gradient and image effects or use background blend modes to merge colors and images to create unique designs. learn more play video efficiency design with more efficiency than ever before multi-select & bulk editing multi-select is amazing. with divi, you can press cmd or ctrl and click to select multiple elements on the page at once. you can then edit these elements at the same time, changing their style and content together or moving them to different locations on the page as a group. learn more play video find & replace styles make sweeping changes across your entire page instantly, saving you hours upon hours of editing time. using find and replace allows you to change any design value, such as colors or fonts, across the entire page or within specific locations. instead of opening up each element individually and changing colors over and over again, just find and replace across the entire document. it's incredible. learn more play video magic color manager divi automatically remembers your recently used colors and stores them for easy access. it also displays your own customizable color pallet. in addition, divi creates a unique extended color pallet using advanced color theory to give you a range of suggested colors that will look great on your page. learn more play video copy & paste styles the ability to copy and paste styles across elements is an absolute game changer. in divi, anything can be copied from one element and pasted onto another. you can copy individual settings, groups of settings or even copy an element's entire design and transfer it to another element on the page. no need to open up design settings and edit things over and over again. just copy and paste. learn more play video extend-able styles divi's extend styles functionality brings design efficiency to a whole new level. if you have a design style that you just created, and you want to use that elsewhere on the page, or even across the entire page, you can simply extend that style automatically to your desired location. update hundreds of elements at once! control exactly where and to which elements your styles should be extended to. for example, let's say you just crafted the perfect box shadow and border style for your images, but you have dozens of images on the page. you can extend that style to the rest of your images instantly! learn more play video divi quick actions the divi quick action system is an all-in-one finder and doer. need help finding a setting? looking for some clarification on how something works in the builder? just type to search through our help videos and all available divi options. perform advanced actions like adding elements or loading layouts. quickly jump to different parts of the builder with a few keystrokes, or even jump to different pages and different wordpress admin areas. it's super fast and a huge time saver. learn more play video drag & drop uploading drag and drop media files directly onto your page. they will upload instantly and appear inside your design! drag and drop entire divi layouts to import them directly. drag in new web fonts, text files, videos and more. no need to use the wordpress media library. learn more play video keyboard shortcuts keyboard shorcuts are the key to ultimate efficiency. divi comes with a full range of keyboard shortcuts that advanced users can use to speed up their work flow significantly. once you get the hang of using shortcuts, you will wonder how you ever lived without them! learn more play video quick access to element styling divi elements come with a huge array of design settings. however, divi also makes it easy to search and filter through these settings and to quickly jump to your already-modified settings. viewing modified styles gives you a list of all settings that are currently active so that you don't have to hunt through the full array of options. it's very similar to google chrome's "view computer styles" filter. learn more play video search-able settings all divi settings are search-able. instead of hunting through different options groups to find the particular option you are looking for, you can just start typing when you open a settings pop-up and the results will be filtered accordingly. even if you know where to find an option, searching for it is faster. no need to click into different tabs and groups. if you want to edit your background color just type "background color" and the option will appear right away. learn more play video filterable settings & search settings within divi are also filterable. applying different search filters will trim down the results and help you find what you are looking for. search results can be filtered to organize settings into different groups such as modified styles, responsive styles, and hover styles. learn more play video marketing ecommerce, lead generation, built in split testing and powerful conversion insights email opt-in provider support build your email marketing lists with divi's email opt-in module. divi comes with an impressive range of email provider support, allowing you to build lists on almost any platform. you can even create custom fields, allowing you to build segmented lists and collect unique information from your subscribers. it also comes with gdpr compliance features. learn more play video pricing tables pricing tables are one of the many page elements that divi offers. with a full range of design and content settings you can create compelling sales pages for your products. contact form building enjoy a full-feature contact form builder. create custom form fields to collect any type of information from your visitors. hide and display input fields using advanced conditional logic. style each input individually using a full range of design options. learn more play video social following help build your social following with divi's social follow module and monarch's social sharing system. having a social media presence is a must, and divi makes it easy to promote your social media profiles. built in split-testing divi's split testing system is no joke. with divi, anything can be tested. test different designs and content against each other and choose unique goals to see how each variation performs. divi gives you powerful insights so that you can pick the best version and increase your website's conversion rate using proven results. learn more play video woobuilder build and sell stunning products with the divi builder divi is compatible with woocoomerce and offers specific woocommerce integrations that make the two a perfect pair. woocommerce is free, which means anyone using divi can start selling products online at no additional cost. demo 1 demo 2 demo 3 demo 4 demo 5 demo 6 demo 7 demo 8 demo 9 sell your products showcase unlimited items in your store for users to browse and purchase your products online. selling with wordpress has never looked so good. build product layouts with divi's woocommerce modules enjoy full control over the design of your product pages with custom woocommerce modules that allow you to create and control any individual woocommerce element anywhere on your website. decide what shows up on your product listings, move things around and even mix woocommerce modules with standard divi modules to create just about anything. divi takes woocommerce to the next level. learn more play video intuition the smartest builder you'll ever meet builder settings & controls the builder interface comes with a lot of options that allow you to customize your building experience. we try not to lock you down into into specific ui conventions, but instead give you the freedom go to create websites the way you want to. learn more play video quick page creation when you create a new page divi gives you easy access to hundreds of pre-made layouts and all of your own saved layouts. you can quickly duplicate existing pages or start from scratch. learn more browse layouts play video a fluid & intuitive interface divi's interface is one of a kind. it's unobtrusive and incredibly fluid. you can move interface elements around and reposition your tools to create a workspace that suits you. it doesn't lock you down into a specific ui convention, but instead lets you choose the mode that works best for you. it will adapt to your screen size and never get in your way. learn more play video history, auto saves & browser backups divi has your back. every action you perform while building is saved into your editing history. you can undo, redo and explore revisions with ease. if something goes wrong, like your internet going down or your computer crashing, divi will automatically save your progress so that you can restore it. learn more play video save, import & export elements with divi you can save design elements or complete layouts into the divi library. these items can be easily accessed, edited or re-used on different pages. you and your team can quickly create a set of design elements that can be used to build a cohesive website with incredible efficiency. you can also import and export these layouts between different websites. build your own design library or download and use any of the countless amazing layouts available from to the divi community. builder view modes there are multiple ways to build with divi. you can freely switch between different view modes, choosing the one that best suits you or your current project. zoom in and out, toggle through mobile device views, switch between unique interaction modes or build your page structures quickly in wire-frame mode. it's up to you. builder walk through it's easy to jump into divi and start designing websites. we built helpful product tours right into the interface, allowing beginners to learn while using the builder. product tours are great for clients too, saving designers time when handing off websites to their clients. learn more play video theme builder design your entire website, not just posts and pages enjoy a fully-featured website templating system that harnesses the power of divi's visual builder to design your website's header, footer, product templates, post templates, category pages, 404 page, and more. learn more play video header & footer builder using the theme builder you can create custom headers and footers for any part of your website using divi's many modules and layout options. example 1 example 2 example 3 post & product template builder using divi's theme builder, you can create site-wide post and product templates that change the structure of posts across your entire website. you don't need to design each post one at a time with divi and you don't need to code child themes to modify your theme's structure. everything can be designed in the builder and post information can be displayed automatically using divi's dynamic content system. example 1 example 2 example 3 global website styles customize your website with its own overarching design system by editing the default design of any element. when you modify a module's default design, it updates across your whole website at once. site-wide theme building plus site-wide design editing is the ultimate combo. learn more play video management user roles, theme options & website support divi comes with a full set of theme options that make your website easy to manage. browse documentation, get technical support, and enable remote access with a single click the divi support center helps you fine tune your website using the system status checkup. you can enable remote access with a single click to allow our support team to log in to your website and fix any issues you are having. you can also toggle divi safe mode to quickly and safely bypass any conflicts with third party plugins. learn more play video set custom user roles and permissions for your team or clients divi comes with a role editor that you can use to limit access to certain things within the builder. for example, you might want to limit your client's ability to modify your design, but allow them to change text content within a fully designed page. it simplifies the experience for your customers and keeps the website designer in control. learn more play video easy theme setup and full theme control with the divi theme options divi comes with tons of theme options and theme customization settings. all divi settings are easy to manage within the divi theme options panel. learn more play video global translated into 32 languages not only are front-end elements translated, but we also expanded the theme's localization to cover the divi builder interface, including all form fields and descriptions. when you enable an rtl language within your wordpress dashboard, divi and the front-end of your website will automatically switch to rtl mode. extendability access 100's of divi extensions or build your own divi isn't just a theme, and it isn't just a framework. it's a community of hundreds of thousands of designers and developers filled with amazing third party extensions, child themes and layouts to help take divi even further. view developer docs use divi anywhere use the all-in-one divi theme, or install the divi plugin with any third party theme. it works anywhere. use the divi theme as your complete website design solution, or install the divi plugin and use it with any third party theme. no matter how you run your wordpress website, you can still enjoy divi's amazing visual builder technology. the divi theme an all-in-one theme that includes the divi builder! the divi theme is the ultimate all-in-one website building solution for wordpress. it comes with the divi builder pre-packaged and wraps it in a fully customizable theme that works perfectly with all builder elements. the divi plugin a standalone page builder plugin for any wordpress theme already using a theme on your website? that's fine too. you can install the divi plugin and use the builder to create stunning designs within your third party template structure. it works with any theme. customer showcase kissmetrics adam's leap wines radspeicher mary and the dot brave the generation aperitoon devlin photos the design space heidi rose 100 exhibit boon creative brett florens nikki hill apothecary petratec need yesterday in-joy mauricio cedraz sleeknote 24/7 support premium support we take support seriously and we take a lot of pride in the level of support we provide to our customers. our team is available around the clock and our innovative divi support center makes it easy to interface with our team and get to the bottom of any issue. learn more play video divi help system divi comes with a contextual help system and product tours. it's the perfect way to get help when and where you need it, and it's an amazing free resource for your clients. divi is filled with helpful tips and full length instructional videos. learn more play video what customers are saying about our support team on christian thorne the best support i have ever had the best support i have ever had. very quick to respond, usually in a couple of hours and always get a fix within a few attempts. would recommend them highly. pascale craeyveld rock star support for a great product! love divi, and more importantly, love their support. they are constantly improving their product and always ready to assist. rock stars! suzi smith sellers great to have live people to help first time working with anything other than wp preloaded themes. i am a very basic beginner, and self taught so it is wonderful to have support at hand as i usually sit all alone and struggle at odd hours of day feeling really dumb. the forums are good because there's a range of people on there too and usually asking my same questions, and i imagine they will even get better as number of users increases. all in all using this has cut my trial and error time before getting up and running waaay shorter. i love how they make recommendations for plugins and then provide those plugins so i don't have to go searching around the world for something that integrates. really nice to have live people to work with! zamir gomeh without a doubt the best service and support elegant themes is without a doubt the best service and support i've ever met. the level of willingness to crack and solve problems that arise is above and beyond all expectations. they do this professionally until the customer is fully satisfied. highly recommend. cameron simons you guys really are helpful you guys really are helpful. you saved me so much time with the issue i was experiencing. i love the friendly support team & clear communication you guys have. i would recommend divi to anyone! thank you so much! jessica pena best support team ever! i started out not knowing anything about websites but after using elegant themes divi! not only is the theme easy to create incredible websites, if for any reason you get stumped and need help the support team is the best. quick to respond and will go above and beyond to assist you with your project. i couldn't be happier that i chose elegant themes!! howard blount elegant themes support rocks! i own a website, but i am not a developer and know nothing about coding. whenever i have a divi update or customization need, elegant themes support always helps me and resolves my issues. i have worked with some of the support techs for so long that we feel like we know each other. martha meier i love the new support method i love the new support method that elegant themes have implemented. it makes it much easier to get support and speeds up time to get issues sorted. thank you...shows the value of experience on support side and the value of going with a company that constantly develop, improve and support their products. hats off to elegant themes. chris elegant themes tech support is amazing elegant themes tech support is amazing. they will stay with you through live support or email until they figure out the issue. truly amazing support! christiane weigel perfect in product and support the themes divi and extra are really professional and easy to use. but simply the best is the support. always friendly, highest quality solutions and fast in requests. perfect to work with. thanks. joy worth every penny not only are their products worth every penny, their customer service is outstanding! there was a small technical issue with my order (bonuses went to spam) and they honored & took accountability for their part in it. refreshing in a world of horrible customer service where companies put their responsibility on the customer. thank you! we are customers for life & will tell the world (: stephen turner excellent customer support excellent support and the team don't give up until your issue is sorted. the support team who represent elegant themes have been chosen well and can't do enough, great customer service experience! view thousands more 5 star reviews power your entire company, team, or personal website with a single license unlimited use a single subscription gets you unlimited use of our themes and plugins. install them on as many websites as you like using a single license. use them on unlimited client websites too. simple pricing one subscription, one fee, no strings attached. get everything in our single membership. power your entire team and use our themes and plugins on unlimited websites. constant updates when you use our products, you can rest easy knowing that we are always working hard to keep them updated, secure and compatible with the latest version of wordpress. products you can trust your website and your client's websites are precious. you need to trust in the products that power them. elegant themes provides a level of support and product quality that is unmatched. rock solid security we take security seriously when developing our products. rest easy knowing that we have your back. don't trust your clients websites with any old theme or plugin. 24/7 premium support we take great pride in the level of support we provide to our customers. our team is available 24/7. we typically respond in less than an hour and are often available for instant live chat. active community you aren't just purchasing software when you join elegant themes. you are becoming part of an amazing community filled with wonderful and passionate people! satisfaction guaranteed we offer a 30 day money back guarantee. if you aren't satisfied with your membership, don't worry. we'll send you a refund with no questions asked. join the most enthusiastic and empowered wordpress community on the web facebook group the divi facebook group is a wonderful place for divi users to learn from each other. it's also our favorite place to interact one-on-one with divi customers. the divi community is such a rare and special thing, full of creativity and positivity. join the group and join the family! 3rd party products divi has a thriving third party development community. much like wordpress, divi is an open source platform that thrives on community participation. we love to promote third party developers and we do everything we can to give them the tools they need to succeed. worldwide meetups we love getting together in person and engaging with the community. the divi meetup network has tons of local meetups where you can learn about divi and improve yourself as a web designer. you can even start your own local divi meetup! 649,032 customers are already building amazing websites with divi. join the most empowered wordpress community on the web sign up today we offer a 30 day money back guarantee, so joining is risk-free! 137k followers 46k members 61k followers 305k subscribers 103k subscribers 6k followers divi divi builder layout library live demo customer showcase products divi theme extra theme bloom plugin monarch plugin wordpress themes wordpress plugins resources documentation 24/7 support community developer docs affiliates blog recent posts product updates divi resources business wordpress company about us careers contact us terms of service privacy policy copyright © 2020 elegant themes ® join to download today