project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure crafts diy accordion photo card share pin easy diy accordion photo card in a box my husband’s and my anniversary is right around the corner. every year, i struggle with what to get him. he’s one of those people that if he wants it, he just buys it. so this year, i wanted to make him something handmade and special. something to remind him of the great years we have had together. i decided to make this accordion photo card. it’s small; he can keep it in his desk at work and pull it out any time to look at it. time: 30 minutes materials: pictures black card stock pencil ruler hole punch ribbon scissors double sided tape ring box making your diy accordion photo card first, determine the width of your paper by measuring your ring box. i used a gold square party favor box that i found at michael’s in the wedding section. i made mine 2”x11”. pick any scrapbook color and pattern you’d like. i find it best to use a heavy weight card stock. next, mark every two inches and fold to make squares. this will fit five 1.7” photos on each side. for the remaining inch left over, punch two holes and tie a bow with some ribbon. print and cut your 1.7”x1.7” photos. i have found that social media is the best resource to find your photos! if your making this for a friend simply check facebook. to do this: search their name on facebook and click on their profile. look for the three dots to the right of their name and click it. click “see friendship” and the photos you are tagged in together will all be on the left side. right click and save these photos to your computer. you will need to crop these into a square shape and resize them. using double sided tape, tape your photos on each side of the accordion. fold them up and place it inside your ring box! these make fun little gifts. you can even change it up a bit and put text in some of the squares to turn it into a beautiful party invitation. here is a variation i did for my daughter’s cinderella party. you can find a similar tutorial here. i used a craft butterfly instead of ribbon to make it dramatic. i hope you like these! you may also like diy paper pop out photo gift box diy photo place cards with fruit back to school photo notebook labels diy photo cell phone case 3d photo cupcake toppers photo pins from social media pictures like it? pin it! note: this post, diy accordion photo card, was originally published on myprintly in february of 2015. leave a comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « last minute elf shenanigans next post: diy wall sconces » reader interactions leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more