home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs diy blogs do you like this blog? these are some other diy blogs that i follow: addicted 2 diy ana white anika’s diy life build basic by brittany goldwyn the created home decor adventures diy diva the diy village the handyman’s daughter the happier homemaker home repair tutor i am a homemaker in my own style infarrantly creative love create celebrate my altered state not just a housewife one project closer prodigal pieces reality daydream remodelaholic remodelando la casa sand & sisal sawdust girl sawdust 2 stitches that’s my letter ugly duckling house vintage revivals woodshop diaries comments nidhi says march 22, 2015 at 9:05 am hi ! i came across your blog this evening and i absolutely love it. excited to try out some of the projects myself. i’m in a dilemma and i would love to use a little help from you. i have this brown leather bag that used to be really pretty, but has become worn out and boring of late. if i could send you a pic, could you pls recommend some diy makeover ideas ? eagerly awaiting your response. loads of love xoxoxo brittany bailey says march 22, 2015 at 10:08 am nidhi, sure. email me at prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com letisha perry says march 23, 2015 at 9:24 pm what a great list. i know we are a community that is better as a team. thank you for this! jacquelyn ward says may 25, 2015 at 7:00 am i wanted you to know that your site rocks. as a fellow woodworkin, powertool lovin, diy gal, i love your blog. jessii love says june 18, 2015 at 1:23 pm this is an amazing blog. and you are inspirational. who said women can’t be handy? shea ricci says august 25, 2015 at 4:08 pm i want to thank you for the tutorial on installing electric receptical extenders. i just bought a home that need a lot of work and i will be installing beadboard throughout. i almost thought to sub it out because i wasn’t sure how to handle the sockets and wall switches even though i’m a diy queen. now i will do it myself without given it a second thought. btw…my father was an electrician and he never passed on this trick! brittany bailey says august 25, 2015 at 10:31 pm hooray! glad you decided to do it yourself, shea. read more comments: « 1 2 hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok