project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure crafts holidays diy wood slice bunnies share pin diy wood slice bunnies for your easter décor i didn’t come up with the original idea for these diy wood slice bunnies. rather, i saw a version on google images but could not find (for the life of me) the source of who came up with the idea. i just thought they were so adorable that i wanted to figure out how to make them myself and i figured i might as well do a tutorial in case anyone else wanted to know how to make these adorable wooden bunnies too. watch the diy wood slice bunnies video here is a quick tutorial video on how to make these easter bunnies for your rustic decor. you can play around with shapes and sizes of wood slices as well as the body position of the bunny. consider putting their feet up, or having their body perched up. here is the materials list and tutorial for making the larger bunny shown here. here’s what you need time 30-60 minutes materials: 2 large wood round (body) 1 medium wood round (back legs) 3 small wood coaster slices (head, ears, front legs) saw wood glue pencils straight edge clamps cotton stems hot glue and glue gun ribbon (optional) making your wood slice bunny make sure the two large wood slices are about the same size. i got all the slices pictured in this tutorial at oriental trading company (affiliate link). this will be the body. next, mark and draw the middle line for the medium slice and two of the small slices. cut the marked medium slice and two small slices in half with a saw. using wood glue, glue one of the medium halves to the bottom rear of the large wood slice. hold it upright and flush to your work surface to make sure it can stand up. next, glue one small half to the top front of the medium slice to complete the bunny’s leg. repeat step 3 on the opposite side so that you have a mirror piece for the body. place the small full wood slice in the head position between the two large body slices. placement will depend on your liking. i used a pencil to trace the area where i needed to place the glue (as shown in the video). glue the head on. use clamps to help you hold it in place. use the remain small half wood slices for the ears. i placed one side up and one side down. you can do any variation of this. again, use the clamps to help you hold it in place. if desired glue or pin a bow to the bunny’s neck. here is a photo of each side. as you can see one large wood slice is slightly larger than the other, but it still looks very cute! small wood slice bunny for the smaller bunny below i used: 1 small wood round 4 coaster wood rounds 6 small wood slices i hope you like them! you may also like: diy easter bunny yarn art easter basket egg hunt whimsical easter dessert table easter egg scavenger hunt printable clues 1 comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « how to makeover your old filing cabinets next post: fancy nancy party ideas » reader interactions comments jolene says march 2, 2020 at 10:04 am these are so cute ! love them reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas diy costume beard and mustache copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more