project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure crafts diy costume beard and mustache share pin cheap diy costume beard and mustache for a school play or halloween costume you know i love halloween and everything that comes with it including making the costumes. sometimes, however a costume comes up that is needed that is not for halloween, like this diy costume beard and mustache i made for my best friend’s son. he needed it for a school project. the problem was that it was too costly to buy one for a 3-minute school presentation. this beard with mustache costs about $2.00 (don’t forget your michael’s coupon) to make and it’s quite easy and simple. you can watch the video tutorial, but if you need more instruction, i have all the details below. diy costume beard and mustache video here’s what you need time: 30-60 minutes materials: felt sheet pencil scissors hot glue and glue gun white ribbon or cord instructions the size and shape will depend on the person, however i found that free handing this was very easy. the shape shown fits both adults and kids. fold a felt sheet in half. draw half of your beard shape. i free handed this. next, draw half of the mouth and cut it out. again, the mouth was free handed. it’s bet to start small and cut bigger as you size it. next, using the left over felt, cut small strips for the mustache. glue them to the upper lip area. once they are glued on, you can fringe it even further, as shown in the video. to make the beard curls, cut strips of felt about a half inch thick. the lengths will vary. it’s best to start towards the bottom so you can layer upwards. place a dab of glue first for the top of the strip. then, twist to curl, gluing the boom down. repeat step 3 until the beard it covered. lastly, trim the beard where necessary. there is no right or wrong way to do this. remember that you can always layer and trim. layering will make a fuller beard. it’s up to you! you can make these in any color and any length: white for santa or zeus black or brown or red for a lumberjack, wise man, biker, viking, pirate, etc. gray for an old character or wizard here is the lightning bolt i made out of cardboard to go with the zeus costume. i hope you like it! you may also like glow in the dark diy sword three little pigs diy costumes diy minecraft costume instructions disney villain family halloween costumes diy bullwinkle costume like it? pin it! leave a comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « 4 fun creative things to do with the kids next post: ring pop valentine printables » reader interactions leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more