home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog diy christmas gifts – cheap and easy gift ideas for coworkers or neighbors december 8, 2017 by erin weiss 1 comment are you looking for diy christmas gifts to give to your coworkers or neighbors this year? i’ve just come up with the best idea ever that’s adorable and also will be a huge hit! this idea will cost less than $5 per each gift (actually closer to $4) and it only takes a few minutes to make. first..i want to say i’m sorry for not posting much lately. work has been absolutely crazy and when i come home from work the last thing i’ve been wanting to do is see a computer again so i apologize! since it’s been a while since you’ve seen my precious macy, she wanted to make an appearance in today’s post and say what’s up. world?!?! aside from working like crazy, we had our “friendsgiving” dinner this week and it was so awesome to see all of us come together and actually produce a pretty outstanding adult meal. yeah we are way passed thanksgiving but it was nice to have a friendsgiving between thanksgiving and christmas this year since both of those times are always so busy. here’s our attempt at an awkward family photo on the stairs. love it. anyway..back to the diy christmas ideas for you. christmas wine to go! who doesn’t love a little wine over christmas? this year why not give your coworkers or neighbors a gift they actually want and will use. what you’ll need for these diy christmas gifts one mini bottle of wine (i chose sweet red because it was christmas red. you can usually get these at cvs, walgreens or walmart for $1-1.50 each) one glass each (i got them at dollar general for a buck each) andre’s mints – the green wrapping and the deliciousness of these chocolates are a win! plus…who doesn’t like to have a little chocolate with their wine? i got a pack of 11 chocolates for a buck at the dollar general. hershey kisses – i got a pack of about 20 silver hershey kisses from the dollar general for a buck. a pack of candy canes from dollar general garland – i bought a big red/gold garland from dollar general and just trimmed off some of the pieces to add to the glass. total cost $4 each and some change each! all you have to do is put the wine bottle in the glass, place two andre’s chocolates. two hershey kisses, two candy canes and a whole lot of colorful and fun garland thrown in. such a simple, cheap and cute idea for diy christmas gifts, right?? if you do this gift or have any comments, feel free to leave them below!! also, if you’re looking for an easy christmas recipe to make, try my salty kisses recipe. i can’t wait to make these again this year. other posts that may interest you: diy puppy paw print ornament mason jar recipes you need to try how blogging bought me a house!! how to build a diy treadmill desk filed under: diy tagged with: cheap christmas gift ideas, christmas gifts under $5, diy, diy christmas gifts, diy christmas ideas for coworkers, gift ideas for neighbors, wine gift you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. trackbacks are you looking for diy christmas gifts to give to your coworkers or neighbors t… – gifts for teens says: december 1, 2019 at 3:13 pm […] are you looking for diy christmas gifts to give to your coworkers or neighbors this year? i’ve just come up with the best idea ever that’s adorable and also will be a huge hit! this idea will cost less than $5 per each gift (actually closer to $4) and it only takes a few minutes to make. read more http://www.livelifeactiv&#8230; […] reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in