project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure trash to treasure diy hidden storage box share pin diy hidden storage box with recycled books hi there! i’m laci from lacijane.com and i’m so excited to partner with dinah at diy inspired for another set of projects! today i’m showing you how i made this diy hidden storage box with recycled books to help hide electronics, routers, modems, and cords using books. watch the diy hidden storage box video here’s what you need time: about an hour materials wood (i used scrap wood) books screws titebond wood glue miter saw/razor (something to cut the books) the first thing i would suggest doing is measuring the width that you need to cover (whether it’s your modem or router or whatever it may be). you will need to know the width to make your wooden “box”. you’ll also need to know the width so you will know how many books you will need. once you have your measurements, you will need to assemble your wood pieces together. you can either secure the box by screwing the pieces together, gluing them together, or both if you want it extra secure. if you’re worried about your screws showing, don’t be. the book spines will cover the screws. i went the easy route and screwed the box together with scrap pieces i had laying around in the garage. i used different sizes and dimensions. the front wood piece is 5” tall and the sidepieces are 3” tall. selecting your wood you want to the wood to be thick enough to screw together this diy is very top-heavy so use wood that is thick enough to be able to hold the weight of the books. you want the front “box” wood piece to be tall enough that it can hold the weight of the book spines without tipping over. finding books where to get cheap books? i looked at goodwill and dollar tree ended up being cheaper. you can get hardback books for $1 each. the width of your box will determine how many books you will need to buy for the diy electronic hider. i used seven books for this diy electronics hider. measure and mark your books using your wood “box” as your guide. stain or paint the box to your preference. while that is drying, cut your books according to the marks you made using your wood “box” as your guide. the two end books right side- you will want to leave the front cover untouched. left side- you will want to leave the back cover untouched. now that all your books are cut to size, simply glue your books onto the “box” that you made. i used titebond wood glue and secured the books onto the “box” with wood clamps. allow to dry for at least 12 hours. remove the clamps and enjoy your diy hidden storage box. what would you hide in there? more from laci jane diy wall sconces diy crystal moon shelf repurposed chicken wire earring holder diy coat rack photo ledge dollar tree diy mirror you may also like this video 1 comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « ring pop valentine printables next post: 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas » reader interactions comments joann barrera says february 20, 2020 at 11:44 am love these! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more