project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure home decor diy crystal moon shelf share pin how to make a wood diy crystal moon shelf hey guys, it’s laci again from lacijane.com and i’m happy to be partnering with dinah at diy inspired again! i hope that you’re all doing amazing today. i have a really awesome diy that i couldn’t wait to share with you! i’ve been collecting crystals for years and my collection is getting out of hand. unable to find anything that i loved online (within the price range i was willing to pay), i created this diy crystal moon shelf with just a few supplies. this diy wooden moon shelf is probably one of my favorite diy projects i’ve done in a long time. this shelf was really easy to make and it was inexpensive. you guys know i’m all about cheap + easy diy’s. in fact, i have an entire playlist on youtube dedicated to cheap and easy diy projects. what the diy crystal moon shelf video what you need materials this materials list and instructions below have amazon affiliate links for recommended products i use. as an amazon associate i earn from qualifying purchases. pack of circles jigsaw stain wood glue level wood clamps diy crystal moon shelf instructions using both of your wooden circles, set one on top of the other and trace your crescent moon onto the circle. using your jigsaw, follow your lines to cut your crescent moon out and lightly sand the edges. then cut the shelves down to size. i used scrap wood (1×4) that i found in the garage and cut them down to 11″ using wood clamps and a level, make sure they are level and mark a line so you know where to glue. cut them to 11″ because the wooden circles are 12″. next, offset the 1×4’s to the right of the wooden circle because you are going to put the crescent moon to the left. after the 1×4’s were glued down, glue the crescent moon to the left side of the shelves and clamp them all down securely. allow this project to dry for several hours. then, stain the wood pieces. i think it would look pretty cool to paint the crescent moon a different color than the rest of the shelf or leave that part un-stained—- i almost did that, but instead, opted to stain it all. note: stain before you glue these pieces together. i’m just really impatient and want to see my vision come together asap. i’m still really happy with how this project turned out, especially because i didn’t go out and purchase anything new. i only used what i had lying around to create this unique, one-of-a-kind shelf. what do you guys think? is this something you’re going to diy? i’d love to see your projects! more of laci’s diy tutorials repurposed jewelry holder easy diy shoe storage idea dollar tree mirror diy leave a comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « trash to treasure storage and organization ideas next post: diy photo place cards with fruit » reader interactions leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more