home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog diy christmas gifts – cheap and easy gift ideas for coworkers or neighbors december 8, 2017 by erin weiss 1 comment are you looking for diy christmas gifts to give to your coworkers or neighbors this year? i've just come up with the best idea ever that's adorable and also will be a huge hit! this idea will cost less than $5 per each gift (actually closer to $4) and it only takes a few minutes to make. first..i want to say i'm sorry for not posting much lately. work has been absolutely … [read more...] diy salt dough paw print ornament december 20, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment i have been all about some pinterest and diy adventures lately. my latest goal was to find an easy way to make an ornament with my dog's name on it for her first christmas. i started searching pinterest and found out about the fabulous world of salt dough (apparently i've been hiding under a rock for my whole life and have never heard of this amazingly easy stuff!). i … [read more...] make your own starbucks protein bistro box – so easy! september 20, 2016 by erin weiss 1 comment i am a huge fan of the quick, grab and go starbucks protein bistro box because it's filling and the macros aren't too bad nutritionally. the only thing i don't love is the price of $4.95. that means if you had one every day of the work week, it would cost you around $25 per week. seems a bit pricey to me! i wanted to recreate this starbucks protein bistro box and make … [read more...] home gym diy pegboard wall august 21, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment recently i broke down and bought myself a new toy. i bought a treadmill for my house! for all the days that i can't make it to the gym, or just feel like watching the bachelor while walking on the treadmill, i can now do that at home. yay! i also wanted to share this adorable diy pegboard wall i created for my home gym / workout room and it's so easy that anyone can do … [read more...] painting kitchen cabinets – rustoleum kit before and after pics march 1, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment painting kitchen cabinets using a rustoleum kit hey guys! so i wanted to hop on here and show you a project i did recently. we decided that the kitchen needed an upgrade and painting kitchen cabinets was the first diy project on the list. the old oak builder's grade style was just not doing it for us anymore so it was time for a diy cabinet transformation. i had always … [read more...] diy bathroom makeover february 2, 2016 by erin weiss 1 comment hey everyone! as you guys already know, i've been working hard on renovating my rental property that i bought in october ( i guess i can call it the blog house now after my last post about how i bought it by blogging!). i wanted to show you the hard work we have put in over there. everyone loves a good before and after pic, right?! i know my blog is primarily … [read more...] diy grout refresh september 4, 2014 by erin weiss 1 comment hey guys! so i have to share another diy post with you guys. as you know, when i'm not blogging about fitness stuff, i'm working on flipping houses to rent. i've turned myself into quite a little real estate investor lately and i'm the type of girl who loves to get her hands dirty with some diy projects. as i'm getting ready to move across the country, i am trying to … [read more...] how to build a treadmill desk august 5, 2014 by erin weiss 2 comments ever wonder how you can build a treadmill desk so you can workout while you work? i have always been fascinated by the idea of treadmill desks. in my opinion, i feel like it should be an option for a desk in every workplace. sure, the expense of a treadmill could be costly at first but wouldn't the cost of improving employees health lower the cost of costly medical bills … [read more...] how to clean grout – my life saver august 3, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment have you ever wondered how to clean grout? do you have problems keeping your white grout clean like i do? i have two dogs. not just small dogs - huge dogs. dobermans, to be exact. they also don't just stay inside every day. they have a doggy door. doggy doors equal a mess because they can run inside and outside all day and come and go as they please. yes they are … [read more...] back issues, real estate & some clean eats april 30, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment for the past 4 years, i've known that this week was pretty much going to be the busiest week of my life and i was right. i have never been this busy. we are at a huge transition at work so i'm working tons of overtime, i'm getting ready for my best friend's wedding in chicago next weekend and i'm busy with a ton of real estate stuff. to be honest, i haven't had time to … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in