project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure diy party ideas diy seashell balloon art share pin diy seashell balloon art video instructions for mermaid party decorations talk about diy inspiration! when i saw lilly jimenez, balloon artist on the show making it, i couldn’t be more inspired. her balloon creations are amazing! with my 3-year old’s birthday coming up, i just had to try to make my diy seashell balloon art piece. i will do my best to explain this diy. i think the video will definitely help. watch the video tutorial time: 1-2 hours materials: 2 sheets of poster board scissors straight edge pencil scissors tape or glue dots balloons instructions: i think the best way to learn how to do this, is to watch the video i made. it’s difficult to reiterate exactly how i made the shape. i was truly winging it, but glad i recorded making it. measure and cut the poster board in 4” wide strips, lengthwise. i think i used 10 or 12 strips. use the strips to create a shell outline. i started in the center of the shell and worked my way out. tape it together as you go. once your shell is formed, tape down and flaps. blow up balloons to fit inside each compartment. start with the larger ones first and tape them to the sides of each compartment. begin filling in the blank spots with smaller balloons. play around with size and color. lastly, set the shell upright and fill in any other missing pieces. add a white balloon for a pearl if desired. play around with balloon colors to fit your mermaid party decor. by the way, you can purchase lilly’s design templates in her shop, which in all honesty i had no idea existed until after i made this! ha! more mermaid party ideas diy mermaid party ideas the little mermaid party ideas diy little mermaid card or invitation the little mermaid party favors leave a comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « fancy nancy party ideas next post: wine of the month gift basket idea » reader interactions leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more