project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure home decor diy wall sconces share pin easy wooden diy wall sconces with tea lights hey guys! today i’m going to show you how i made these easy diy wall sconces. my name is laci from lacijane.com and a huge thanks to dinah from diy inspired for partnering with me today. these diy wall sconces are so easy to make, and they are very affordable to make as well. i could not believe how easy they were to make, especially considering how much they cost at the store. both were made for less than $20 and that includes the tea light sconces from hobby lobby. watch the diy wall sconces video for this project, you will need: time: about an hour materials this materials list contains amazon affiliate links to recommended products. 1×6 and 6′ long-select pine 1/8 drill bit wood clamps drill gun 10 screws 1 1/4 long drywall screws wood stain-ebony titebond wood glue speed square instructions cut pine to 20″ long (or however long you’d like yours to be). cut your shelf to 5 1/2″ (or whatever size you want it to be). measure and mark where you want your shelf (i went to 6 3/8 from the bottom) wood glue your shelf down using your clamps to secure it and let it dry using your 1/8 drill bit, create holes in the back. drill your screws into the holes to secure the shelf sand your wood to make sure you have all the glue off stain and let dry measure and mark where you want to hang the eyelet / hanging tea light candles. hand-screw the eyelet into the ledge. affix to your wall (i did this by using a drill bit to create a hole on the top and bottom of the 20” board and then screwing it into the wall). cut list: cut 1×6 down to 20″ with remaining wood, cut 5 1/2 inches wide for shelf how to affix to wall drill a pilot hole in center (2 3/4 in.) attach to the wall with drywall screws use anchors if needed i found these gorgeous geometric tealight holders at hobby lobby and i bought two of them. i knew they would look so gorgeous hanging on these sconces. all that i did was hand-screw the eyelet hooks into the wood and then i hung the geometric tea light candles onto it. i would not recommend using real tea light candles for this, but it was all i had on hand. battery operated tea light candles would be perfect in this. this project is really easy and it ended up costing me less than $20 for both. what do you guys think? more of laci’s diy tutorials repurposed jewelry holder easy diy shoe storage idea dollar tree mirror diy leave a comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « diy accordion photo card next post: repurposed flower frog ideas » reader interactions leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more