project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure kids craft ideas diy doll starbucks drinks share pin diy doll starbucks drinks recycled craft for kids my daughter and i were playing school with her wellie wisher dolls the other day. we realized our dolls had everything except drinks. so, we whipped up these diy doll starbucks drinks made from old prescription bottles. for our school, we had already printed and made: diy doll cell phones and laptops doll sized tablet, calculator, rulers diy doll school lunch doll folders and worksheets watch the video here is a quick video tutorial we made featuring my 9-year-old daughter, mia. making your doll starbucks drinks time: 5-20 minutes materials this list contains amazon affiliate links for recommended products i used. as an amazon associate, i earn from qualifying purchases. prescription bottle drill and drill bits cardboard starbucks labels 1” fiskars circle punch glue stick bendable straw hot glue and glue gun scissors instructions note: although this is a simple kid’s craft, be sure to have adult supervision when using an electric drill and hot glue gun. drill a hole in the center of the prescription bottle cap. it is easiest to drill with the cap still on so that you have something to hold on to. cut a bendable straw to size. use the bottle to help guide you. insert it into the hole. cut a piece of cardboard to fit around the bottle. old food boxes are great for this. we used a paper cutter, but that is optional. it should be a little over 1 inch wide. print out these free starbucks labels. please note that i did not design these logos. i simply resized them or your convenience and use. use a glue stick to glue them onto the center of your cardboard strip. wrap the strip around the bottle to get a natural curve in the cardboard. remove it and apply hot glue. glue it to the center of the bottle, holding it closed for a few seconds while the glue dries. there you have it! so simple, and practically a free craft! be sure to check out all my doll crafts. i have a whole section! you may also like before you go, check out my youtube channel and video of 10 easy diy doll school supplies. i’d love it if you subscribed! like it? pin it! leave a comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « candy and non candy sayings for party favors next post: 4 fun creative things to do with the kids » reader interactions leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more