skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more dmca policy digital millenium copyright act notice takedown policy and procedures flynndustries, llc dba smartpassiveincome.com respects the intellectual property rights of others just as it expects third parties to respect its rights. pursuant to digital millennium copyright act, title 17, united states code, section 512(c), a copyright owner or their agent may submit a takedown notice to us via our dmca agent listed below. as an internet service provider, we are entitled to claim immunity from said infringement claims pursuant to the “safe harbor” provisions of the dmca. to submit a good faith infringement claim to us, you must submit notice to us that sets forth the following information: notice of infringement – claim a physical or electronic signature of the copyright owner (or someone authorized to act on behalf of the owner); identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed; identification of the infringing material to be removed, and information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to locate the material. [please submit the url of the page in question to assist us in identifying the allegedly offending work]; information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to contact the complaining party including your name, physical address, email address, phone number and fax number; a statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that the use of the material is unauthorized by the copyright agent; and a statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and, under penalty of perjury, that the complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the copyright owner. title 17 usc §512(f) provides civil damage penalties, including costs and attorney fees, against any person who knowingly and materially misrepresents certain information in a notification of infringement under 17 usc §512(c)(3). send all takedown notices to the following. please send by email for prompt attention. dmca agent richard a. chapo law office of richard a. chapo po box 373 pine valley, ca 91962 phone: 800-966-1679 email: [email protected] counter-notification – restoration of material if you have received a notice of material being takedown because of a copyright infringement claim, you may provide us with a counter-notification in an effort to have the material in question restored to the site. said notification must be given in writing to our dmca agent and must contain substantially the following elements pursuant to 17 usc section 512(g)(3): your physical or electronic signature. a description of the material that has been taken down and the original location of the material before it was taken down. a statement under penalty of perjury that you have a good faith belief that the material was removed or disabled as a result of mistake or misidentification of the material to be removed or disabled. your name, address, and telephone number, and a statement that you consent to the jurisdiction of the federal district court for the judicial district in which the address is located (or if you are outside of the united states, that you consent to jurisdiction of any judicial district in which the service provider may be found), and that you will accept service of process from the person or company who provided the original infringement notification. email your counter notice to our dmca agent: richard a. chapo, esq. at [email protected] for prompt action or send to: richard a. chapo, po box 373, pine valley, ca 91962 – phone: 800-966-1679 – email: [email protected] again, email is encouraged for quick action. repeat infringer policy flynndustries, llc takes copyright infringement very seriously. pursuant to the repeat infringer policy requirements of the digital millennium copyright act, flynndustries llc maintains a list of dmca notices from its copyright holders with its registered dmca agent. the company makes a good faith effort to identify any repeat infringers on this list pursuant to the safe harbor requirements of the dmca. modifications flynndustries, llc reserves the right to modify the contents of this page and its policy for handling dmca claims at any time for any reason. you are encouraged to check back to review this policy frequently for any changes. want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less