hecklerspray grown up gossip & internet villainy dmca notice and policy if you believe that material available on our website infringes on your copyright(s), please notify us by providing a dmca notice. upon receipt of a valid and complete notice, we will respond expeditiously to remove the material. click here to send us an email. before submitting a dmca notice, it’s important to consider if the manner in which the material is used falls under fair use. if you are not sure whether material located on hecklerspray.com infringes your copyright, or if it is subject to fair use protections, you should first consider seeking legal advice. please be advised that you may be liable for damages (including costs and attorneys’ fees) if you materially misrepresent that material or activity is infringing. to submit a valid notice of claimed copyright infringement, you will need to provide us with the following information: a physical or electronic signature (typing your full name will suffice) of the copyright owner or a person authorized to act on their behalf; identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed (e.g., a link to your original work or clear description of the materials allegedly being infringed upon); a description of the nature and exact location of the material that you claim to infringe your copyright, in sufficient detail to permit us to find and positively identify that material. for example we require a link to the specific url that contains the material and a description of which specific portion of the page – an image, a link, the text, etc. your complaint refers to; your contact information, including your address, telephone number, and an email address; a statement that you have a good faith belief that the use of the material in the manner asserted is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and a statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and, under penalty of perjury, that you are authorized to act on behalf of the copyright owner. please allow 1-3 business days for an email response. note that emailing your complaint to other parties such as our web host will not expedite your request and may result in a delayed response due the complaint not properly being filed. a mediocre rundown of the 2019 oscars so the jodyn and tristan thing is probably true tristan thompson allegedly cheats on khloe kardashian with jordyn woods lil xan is having a kid and i can't deal with that katy perry and orlando bloom are engaged blogroll rumorfix hecklerspray.com copyright © 2019 · · terms · privacy · dmca · contact