login cheezburger search latest posts shop the cheezburger store cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation home shop the cheezburger store login submit copyright infringement notice to file a copyright infringement notification with cheezburger, inc, you will need to send a written communication that includes substantially the following (please consult your legal counsel or see section 512(c)(3) of the copyright act to confirm these requirements). full info after the jump: the following notice applies to this website, and any other website operated by cheezburger, inc. (such as icanhas.cheezburger.com website, failblog.cheezburger.com website, memebase.cheezburger.com website, thedailywhat.cheezburger.com website, and knowyourmeme.com website). to file a copyright infringement notification with cheezburger, inc, you will need to send a written communication that includes substantially the following (please consult your legal counsel or see section 512(c)(3) of the copyright act to confirm these requirements): a physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed. identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed, or, if multiple copyrighted works at a single online site are covered by a single notification, a representative list of such works at that site. identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled, and information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to locate the material. providing urls in the body of an email is the best way to help us locate content quickly. information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to contact the complaining party, such as an address, telephone number, and, if available, an electronic mail address at which the complaining party may be contacted. a statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law. a statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that the complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed. such written notice should be sent to our designated agent as follows: literally media ltd 146 n canal street seattle, wa 98103 you may also send it to us via email at info@literally.media please also note that under section 512(f) any person who knowingly materially misrepresents that material or activity is infringing may be subject to liability. counter-notification if you believe that the material that was removed or to which access was disabled was not infringing, you may submit a counter-notification. you may do so by sending us a written communication that includes substantially the following: 1. identification of the specific urls of material that has been removed or to which we have disabled access. 2. your full name, address, telephone number, and email address. 3. the statement: “i consent to the jurisdiction of the federal district court for the district in which my address is located, or if my address is outside of the united states, the judicial district in which cheezburger, inc. is located, and will accept service of process from the claimant.” (cheezburger, inc. is located in the western district of washington) 4. the statement: “i swear, under penalty of perjury, that i have a good faith belief that the material was removed or disabled as a result of a mistake or misidentification of the material to be removed or disabled.” 5. a physical signature or electronic signature. the counter-notice may be sent by regular mail to: literally media ltd 146 n canal street seattle, wa 98103 you may also send it to us via email at info@literally.media the information provided in your counter-notification will be forwarded to the person who submitted the original claim of copyright infringement. after we forward your counter-notification, the claimant must then notify us within 10 business days that the claimant has filed an action seeking a court order to restrain you from engaging in infringing activity relating to the material on our website. if we receive such notification we will be unable to restore the material. if we do not receive such notification, we will typically reinstate the material. please note that under section 512(f) of the copyright act, any person who knowingly materially misrepresents that material or activity was removed or disabled by mistake or misidentification may be subject to liability. please be advised that we may terminate the accounts of repeat copyright infringers. have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter back to top