skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search do not sell my personal information this page was last changed on nov 27, 2019, last checked on feb 1, 2020 and applies to citizens of the united states. 1. introduction our website, https://crankyflier.com (hereinafter: “the website”) uses cookies and other related technologies (for convenience all technologies are referred to as “cookies”). cookies are also placed by third parties we have engaged. in the document below we inform you about the use of cookies on our website. 2. what are cookies? a cookie is a small simple file that is sent along with pages of this website and stored by your browser on the hard drive of your computer or another device. the information stored therein may be returned to our servers or to the servers of the relevant third parties during a subsequent visit. 3. what are scripts? a script is a piece of program code that is used to make our website function properly and interactively. this code is executed on our server or on your device. 4. what is a web beacon? a web beacon (or a pixel tag) is a small, invisible piece of text or image on a website that is used to monitor traffic on a website. in order to do this, various data about you is stored using web beacons. 5. consent when you visit our website for the first time, we will show you a pop-up with an explanation about cookies. you do have the right to opt-out and to object against the further use of non-functional cookies. revoke cookie consent current status: acceptedcurrent status: denied you can also disable the use of cookies via your browser, but please note that our website may no longer work properly. 6. cookies 6.1 technical or functional cookies some cookies ensure that certain parts of the website work properly and that your user preferences remain known. by placing functional cookies, we make it easier for you to visit our website. this way, you do not need to repeatedly enter the same information when visiting our website and, for example, the items remain in your shopping cart until you have paid. we may place these cookies without your consent. 6.2 advertising cookies on this website we use advertising cookies, enabling us to personalize the advertisements for you, and we (and third parties) gain insights into the campaign results. this happens based on a profile we create based on your click and surfing on and outside https://crankyflier.com. with these cookies you, as website visitor are linked to a unique id, so you do not see the same ad more than once for example. you can object to the tracking by these cookies by clicking the “revoke cookie consent” button. 6.3 social media buttons on our website we have included buttons for facebook and twitter to promote webpages (e.g. “like”, “pin”) or share (e.g. “tweet”) on social networks like facebook and twitter. these buttons work using pieces of code coming from facebook and twitter themselves. this code places cookies. these social media buttons also can store and process certain information, so a personalized advertisement can be shown to you. please read the privacy statement of these social networks (which can change regularly) to read what they do with your (personal) data which they process using these cookies. the data that is retrieved is anonymized as much as possible. facebook and twitter are located in the united states. 7. placed cookies jetpack we use jetpack for advertizing. name retention function purpose pending investigation tk_tc statistics tk_ai session store a unique user id sharing for more information, please read the jetpack privacy policy. google ads optimization we use google ads optimization for showing advertizements. name retention function marketing/tracking google_experiment_mod* 3 months track visits across websites sharing for more information, please read the google ads optimization privacy policy. twitter we use twitter for display of recent social posts and/or social share buttons. name retention function purpose pending investigation metrics_token sharing for more information, please read the twitter privacy policy. complianz we use complianz for cookie consent management. name retention function functional cmplz_all 365 days store cookie consent preferences complianz_policy_id 365 days register accepted cookie policy id complianz_consent_status 365 days store cookie consent preferences sharing for more information, please read the complianz privacy policy. google analytics we use google analytics for website statistics. name retention function statistics (anonymous) _ga 2 years store a unique user id _gid 1 day count and track pageviews _gat 1 minute sharing for more information, please read the google analytics privacy policy. google analytics dashboard for wp we use google analytics dashboard for wp for website statistics. name retention function statistics gadwp_wg_default_metric 1 month count and track pageviews purpose pending investigation gadwp_wg_default_dimension gadwp_wg_default_swmetric sharing this data is not shared with third parties. advanced ads we use advanced ads for showing advertizements. name retention function purpose pending investigation advads_hide_deactivate_feedback sharing this data is not shared with third parties. google doubleclick we use google doubleclick for cross-channel advertizing. name retention function marketing/tracking __gads persistent ad delivery purpose pending investigation 1p_jar __ar_v4 ide _drt_ ___gads id ar_v4 dsid idide sharing for more information, please read the google doubleclick privacy policy. google ads name retention function purpose pending investigation google_pem_mod persistent sharing for more information, please read the google ads privacy policy. google adsense we use google adsense for showing advertizements. name retention function purpose pending investigation google_adsense_settings sharing for more information, please read the google adsense privacy policy. facebook we use facebook for display of recent social posts and/or social share buttons. name retention function marketing/tracking actppresence 1 year manage ad display frequency fbm_ 1 year store account details _fbc track audience reach fbm_* 1 year store account details xs 3 months fr 3 months ad delivery _fbp 3 months track visits across websites datr 2 years store browser details csm 2 years sb 2 years *_fbm_ 1 year store account details functional wd 1 week determine screen resolution act 90 days keep users logged in c_user 90 days store a unique user id presence session store the user’s usage history sharing for more information, please read the facebook privacy policy. miscellaneous name retention function purpose pending investigation opensnippets complianz_config 365 days tk_qs jetpackstate wp-api-schema-modelhttps://crankyflier.com/wp-json/wp/v2/ wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23704 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23720 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23706 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23758 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23336 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23821 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23861 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23867 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-20264 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23883 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23901 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23872 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23895 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23924 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23892 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23935 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23955 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23942 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23952 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23989 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24012 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-23825 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24004 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24281 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24333 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24358 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24344 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24295 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24445 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24415 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24382 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24464 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24536 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24521 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24559 wp-autosave-block-editor-post-24546 sharing this data is not shared with third parties. 8. your rights with respect to personal data you have the following rights with respect to your personal data: you may submit a request for access to the data we process about you; you may object to the processing; you may request an overview, in a commonly used format, of the data we process about you; you may request correction or deletion of the data if it is incorrect or not or no longer relevant, or to ask to restrict the processing of the data. to exercise these rights, please contact us. please refer to the contact details at the bottom of this cookie statement. if you have a complaint about how we handle your data, we would like to hear from you. 9. enabling/disabling and deleting cookies you can use your internet browser to automatically or manually delete cookies. you can also specify that certain cookies may not be placed. another option is to change the settings of your internet browser so that you receive a message each time a cookie is placed. for more information about these options, please refer to the instructions in the help section of your browser. 10. selling data to third parties we do not sell data to third parties 11. contact details for questions and/or comments about our cookie policy and this statement, please contact us by using the following contact details: cranky flier llc 3711 long beach blvd, ste 5061, long beach, ca 90807 united states website: https://crankyflier.com email: cf@crankyflier.com phone number: +1 707 797 7474 this cookie policy was synchronized with cookiedatabase.org on nov 27, 2019 share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site! send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.