start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events search start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events join our facebook community start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events search start here welcome to problogger – the home for those wanting to start a blog, create great content and grow their blogs and then go professional to make money blogging. subscribe to probloggerplus do you dream of making money from your blog? ﻿if you dream of making a living from blogging then you’re in the right place! problogger is all about inspiring, teaching and supporting bloggers from around the world to create blogs that not only serve their readers and make the world a better place – but which build income streams for the bloggers behind them. my journey: from hobby to full time blogger my name is darren rowse and i started blogging in 2002 on an impulse one afternoon having seen a blog written by a guy on the other side of the world and witnessing how he used it to amplify his voice and grow a community around his ideas. i liked what i saw and decided i wanted to give blogging a go – not knowing that that decision would change the direction of my life in many ways. my first personal blog grew in readership in the coming years to several thousand readers a month and gave me confidence to start numerous other niche-focused blogs which in the hope of paying for my server expenses i started to teach myself to make money from. the income from those blogs was small at first – just a few dollars a week at first – but gradually grew to become a part time job and then in late 2004 to be a full-time income. problogger was born around the time i achieved a full-time income from blogging i started problogger as a simple blog to share what i was learning about monetizing blogs and in the hope of meeting others on the same journey. while a blog about blogging may seem a little sad – it turns out that many others shared my dream of making a living by writing on topics that they are passionate about and problogger quickly grew to be a center for learning for hundreds of thousands of bloggers from around the world. problogger is now so much more than a blog. the blog itself has almost 8000 articles and tutorials but on this site you’ll also find my podcast, a job board for bloggers looking to find work, a series of problogger ebooks and the problogger book – plus much more. what do you need help with? most new readers to problogger come with the dream of building an income from blogging but also with one of a few common needs or challenges. as a result, we’ve organised the site into 8 portals to help you find the content that best suits your need. these are: start a blog create content find readers build community make money be productive understand technology get work you’ll find these highlighted under the heading ‘i need help to…’ on our front page and the sidebars on this site (as pictured right). also a popular page on problogger is our recommended blogging resources page which contains all our recommended blogging tools, services and apps to help you keep your blog running smoothly. subscribe to probloggerplus – it’s free the best way for you to stay in touch with problogger is to subscribe to our free weekly newsletter. we call it probloggerplus and it is filled with all our latest tutorials, podcast episodes and other news from the problogger community. it’s completely free and we promise to keep your details private. i trust that you’ll find problogger to be a useful resource for you in your blogging. please feel free to join in on the many conversations happening around the site in our comments section and drop me a note any time on our social media pages – i’m particularly active on twitter and facebook and look forward to connecting. recommended blogging resources a list of recommended blogging resources that i’ve either personally used (in most cases) or which have come highly recommended to me by people i trust. blog platforms hosting blog design/themes tools for graphic design tools and services for email marketing tools for social media management tools for productivity and team management blog monetization and more see detailed list i need help to... start a blog create content find readers build community make money blogging be productive understand technology get work every week we'll send you blogging advice, tips and in-depth tutorials join our community of 300,000+ bloggers! name name website subscribe recently at the job board email marketer - reach a big audience and make a positive impact expert tech blog writer finance or seo specialist writer wanted fitness & lifestyle bloggers wanted! [european] content writer for adult toy website problogger top articles how to start a blog how to create great blog content how to find readers for your blog 7 strategies to build community on your blog how to make money blogging 5 ways to make your blogging life easier top resources 31 days to build a better blog problogger’s guide to your first week of blogging problogger’s guide to blogging for your business blog wise: how to do more with less the blogger’s guide to online marketing recommended blogging resources about blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses speaking privacy terms contact copyright © 2020 problogger.com · all rights reserved