home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog my christmas week recap – live life active fitness blog december 30, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment heyyooo!! happy monday after christmas everyone! i hope you had a fabulous holiday week. i sure did! i spent most of my time in chicago with my family. i've been off work since the 20th..it feels like a while ago but at the same time it also feels like it flew by. why does it always seem like vacation is never long enough? last friday we went out and got some … [read more...] nike free shield shoes review october 10, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment as you guys all know, i like to see a new bright orange nike box over a tiffany's blue box any day. yeah i may not be a normal girl, but i just love nike shoes that much! i am lucky enough to be partnered with finish line and they sent me a new pair of nikes to review. oh the anticipation of opening that beautiful orange box!!! i had no idea what they sent … [read more...] country concert, cravings and a crazy doberman september 24, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment this past weekend was supposed to be a total relaxation...get $*!t done type of weekend. friday night was a success. i hit the gym after work and was productive all friday night. saturday came around and somehow i got convinced to go to the jason aldean concert. i love country concerts so it was pretty hard to pass up. he played in noblesville, in and it was a … [read more...] patience is key september 13, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment happy friday!!! i haven't posted a personal blog post this week yet, so i thought i was due for one. i took tuesday and thursday off as rest days this week but have hit the gym hard every other day. (hint: hover over any of my images to post to pinterest!) in the past 6 months i've been really focusing on building my upper body. since i was a soccer player my … [read more...] puma punisher workout september 3, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i hope everyone had a fabulous labor day weekend! it was nice to have a long weekend where we weren't traveling the whole time. it was a nice change. on saturday morning, i got to try out my new puma shoes that they sent me to try. they are called puma formlite which are reasonably priced at about $60! the coolest part of these shoes is their weight. they are by far the … [read more...] a weekend on the water, pull ups & my vma review august 26, 2013 by erin weiss 4 comments a weekend on the water, pull ups & my vma review happy monday!! i hope you had a great weekend. my weekend was spent mostly outside having some fun in the sun! we spent friday doing some real estate stuff and getting into a bidding war on an investment property that i'm trying to purchase. we should find out today if i got it or not. gotta love real estate...always … [read more...] my california trip meal plan & jacked in a box august 5, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments this past friday we went to ruth's chris steakhouse. that place is soooo good but will empty your pockets for sure! i ended up getting the salmon and it was really good. i don't normally order fish at restaurants but i thought i'd give it a try and so glad i did! when i got home friday i had a couple items waiting on me! i love when my supplements get delivered!!! i … [read more...] photoshoot in september? august 17, 2012 by erin weiss 2 comments a lot of exciting things are going on in my life right now! i'm a very happy girl! not only am i super busy training, i'm also probably going to do my first photo shoot with a local magazine! i'm so exciteddddd!! i'll fill you guys in with more details when i know more :) i also have my first posing appointment today! i need to start learning how to walk and pose in my … [read more...] tight shorts and torn shoes july 12, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment i had another successful clean eating day yesterday, however i found myself craving more junk yesterday than i did the previous 2 days. i am 3/7ths of the way through my weekly goal of eating 100% clean for 7 days straight :) here's a peek at my food for the day... here is my actual food log. i get so many comments from people who want to see my actual food log...so … [read more...] protein coffee & 4th of july july 5, 2012 by erin weiss 2 comments i hope everyone had a great 4th of july!! i had a nice and relaxing one. we stayed at home and worked on our "man barn" renovation (okay..maybe the bf worked and i just watched). he spent the day building the upstairs to the man barn. we plan on having an upstairs area that we can use as storage space since the whole downstairs will be a living/workshop … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in