doctors for america about us mission leaders supporters and friends past campaigns join dfa become a sustaining member faq internships job opportunities issues dfa issue workgroups 2020 gun violence prevention drug affordability substance use disorder news blog posts press releases learn learn from the experts state leader resources dfa podcast dfa physician advocacy story portal white coats boot camp contribute join 18,000 doctors and medical students in our movement! previous slide next slide take action become a sustaining member coverage is good medicine volunteer on our campaigns blog facebook twitter recent posts biweekly rounds 3-22-20 dfa’s weekly action item: as the covid-19 pandemic continues to unfold and impact so many of you deeply, we ask that you take a few minutes to share with the dfa community and the world your stories. tell us your frontline experiences so that we can amplify them to educate the world about what you are facing in order to ca… read more tell your story on social media today share your experience and thoughts as a doctor on the frontlines: as the covid-19 pandemic unfolds there just is not enough reliable information. it is critical that the public and policymakers understand the real story of what is going on from a frontline caregiver perspective across our nation as this crisis evolves!! please sh… read more on covid-19 it is hard to put into words the magnitude of the challenge facing the world and our nation today. but you know, the thousands of doctors for america members across all 50 states are on the front lines. you are caring for patients who are worried for themselves, for people they love, and for their livelihoods. you are working to d… read more facebook twitter tweets by @drsforamerica join connect doctors for america is a national movement of physicians and medical students working together to improve the health of the nation and to ensure that everyone has access to affordable, high quality health care. contact us about us issues news learn contribute contact us privacy policy home non-profit website design by new media campaigns — hifi content management system join doctors for america or skip signup