video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map crisis management does sheryl crow really use one square of toilet paper at a time? knowing the answer may actually help your cash flow. next article --shares add to queue grow your business, not your inbox stay informed and join our daily newsletter now! email will be used in accordance with our privacy policy image credit: flashgun | getty images gene marks contributor president of the marks group march 26, 2020 4 min read opinions expressed by entrepreneur contributors are their own. toilet paper is certainly a hot item nowadays. but it doesn't have to be. in fact, accordin to some people — like musician sheryl crow — we use way too much of it. "now, i don’t want to rob any law-abiding american of his or her god-given rights, but i think we are an industrious enough people that we can make it work with only one square per restroom visit," she wrote in a huffington post piece a few years back. "except, of course, on those pesky occasions where two to three could be required." no, crow wasn't talking about the latest shortage caused by the coronavirus pandemic. she was offering various ideas on how to save the environment, and limiting the use of toilet paper was just one of them. but one square? is this even possible? oh, it most certainly is. in fact, many in the military are trained how to use just one square of toilet paper when they're out on patrol. environmentalist jonathan levy did some research after crow's comments and confirms this. according to a post he made on zero waste guy, the process isn't that tough. all you need to do is puncture the one square of toilet paper in the middle with your index finger, wipe your bottom clean with that finger and then use the same piece (double-ply, mind you) to clean off your finger. then of course, wash your hands thoroughly. "yes, this sounds gross and disgusting" he says. "but consider that 70 to 75 percent of the world does not use toilet paper at all!" i have a decent supply of toilet paper, not that it matters. but i have to admit, in the midst of all the toilet paper-buying panic that's been going on recently, i've been using...well...less. why? because i can. because, and i don't want to gross you out, i was using too much. in fact, when i look around at my business, i find we're all just using too much of everything. we over-order office supplies. we have the heat turned on too high. we buy 87 different kinds of coffee for the keurig. we purchase too many packaging supplies, extra inventory, machine parts, paper towels, raw materials and, yes, even toilet paper for our bathrooms. we lease cars that are unnecessarily expensive, take our clients out to overrated restaurants and spend too much money on travel, trade shows, holiday parties and those silly sweatshirts with our company logos. you can argue that this is for morale. or that it's a "perk" for running a business. or that it's giving business to other businesses. i get it. but in the end, we're still spending too much money. we're still using too much toilet paper. and whether there's a slowdown in the economy or not, keeping a close eye on our expenses — even cutting back certain things by just 1 or 2 percent — has a big impact on an organization’s cash flow, be it a small business or a fortune 100 company. let’s not forget that. so i don't know if sheryl crow is really only using one sheet of toilet paper when she goes to the bathroom, and frankly i don't want to know. but i think her attitude is right. cutting back on the materials we use in our businesses, even by just a little, would help sustain the environment. just as importantly, it would help to sustain our livelihoods, too. more from entrepreneur get heaping discounts to books you love delivered straight to your inbox. we’ll feature a different book each week and share exclusive deals you won’t find anywhere else. sign up now jumpstart your business. entrepreneur insider is your all-access pass to the skills, experts, and network you need to get your business off the ground—or take it to the next level. join now are you paying too much for business insurance? do you have critical gaps in your coverage? trust entrepreneur to help you find out. get your quote now related books the naming book buy from the naming book buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read the unstoppable journal buy from the unstoppable journal buy from amazon entrepreneur books ultimate guide to link building buy from ultimate guide to link building buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read career rehab buy from career rehab buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read entrepreneur voices on elevator pitches buy from entrepreneur voices on elevator pitches buy from amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read no b.s. marketing to the affluent buy from no b.s. marketing to the affluent buy from amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read latest on entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account crisis management a healthy and productive guide to virtual meetings crisis management 10 tips for entrepreneurs to actually get work done while homeschooling kids crisis management senate passes $2 trillion coronavirus relief bill crisis management how to deal with the economic impact of the coronavirus crisis management covid-19 will fuel the next wave of innovation