home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library holidays latest articles travel prevnext does your personality affect the way you plan your holiday? leyla preston fri 1st jun 2018 0shares share tweet pin when you’re a family getting ready to head on a journey, either in the car, on the plane or by foot, you’ll learn pretty quickly that planning what you need to take with you will save you hours of stress and nightmare, especially when you are taking babies and young children with you. you must factor in food, a spare set of clothes, drink and, if you’re in the uk, a jacket, sunscreen and an umbrella – all at the same time! but, did you know that your personality or the personality of the chief packer, will affect the way you plan your holiday? for example, i’m organised, but i’m also quite an in-the-moment kind of packer, which means i don’t make long lists to tick off while i pack. i mentally visualise the beginning to the end of the journey and try to factor in what could possibly go wrong on the way. then i pack for that situation. of course, this means i naturally overpack. but, ‘just-in-case’ works a lot better for me than not having it when it’s needed. my husband, on the other hand, packs like a swiss clock – with precision. due to his well-travelled childhood, he knows exactly what to pack. he never overpacks – but his clockwork manner means that sometimes he forgets to pack the anomalies which my non-clockwork manner picks up. you see? personality can mean a lot! so, how does your personality affect the way you plan your holiday? let’s find out! table of contents you’re a planner in life you hate planning you love new experiences you don’t love new experiences you penny-pinch you’re laid back you’re a planner in life you’re the kind of person that has a constant to-do list running through your head, on your desk and probably in your bag as well. your whole life is made up of to-do lists because if you don’t have one you’re scared that you’ll forget what it is that you need to remember. you get as much fun out of planning the journey as being on the journey itself. being a good planner makes you a conscientious person and someone who pays attention to detail. this is a great skill, but you may end up being the one who takes control of the planning and either you will feel resentful of this, or your partner will. are you letting others plan the holiday for you? let me rephrase that question. are you afraid of letting others plan for you? what do you think will go wrong if someone like me plans your journey, for example? remember to take a step back sometimes and allow someone the reins for a bit. if they mess it up, take the reins back. but at least let them try. you hate planning you’re the one who steps back and lets the planners plan. you like to experience life at the moment and, like me, you plan for emergencies, but for anything else, you wing it. however, you may suffer from continuous planning errors and end up in certain disastrous consequences. either learn how to plan for the most basic things that you need on your journey or carry on letting the planners plan for you. remember, however, if you’re going on a journey by yourself, you must learn how to plan for the least number of things that you need. you don’t have to spend all day on it, but it may be worth planning two days in advance and committing the list to memory, so you don’t feel you’re planning. you love new experiences you’re an innovator, you’re open to new experiences and you seek places you’ve never been before. you feel you get the most out of your journey because you plan to try and do as much as possible to expand your mind on holiday. you’ll pick the most elaborate places. however, remember that not everyone wants to try novel places all the time. some people like the same-old-same-old holiday, so compromise with the family and see if you can get them to agree to take a few days doing something new to you all and then go back to the comfort zone. you may broaden the minds of those who don’t like to experience new things and they may end up agreeing to pick up the pace with you next time. this means that planning can become difficult. plan for the new experiences and let the comfort planner take control of the rest. you don’t love new experiences vice versa, as above. you like to go to the same place every holiday and you pack the same items as you always do. you’re happy to just do the things you love and know the places you go to without having to learn anything new. you will chill and relax, grab some respite from your busy reality, rather than attempting to try something new and wasting conserved energy. as above, some members of the family may want to try new things so it’s important to take into account that not everyone plans for a journey to stay in the same familiar destination. broaden your mind and allow yourself to experience something new, even if it’s just for a few days. you’ll never know, you may like it and start enjoying the new experiences! you penny-pinch you don’t like to part with too much cash on holiday, so you’d probably scour the net, undertaking hours upon hours of research to find the best all-inclusive deals that you can find. you interview your friends and family to find out what worked on the holiday and what didn’t. you’re probably neurotic about the value and want to pay for the absolute minimum, from choosing the right tyres for your car to picking the right seats on the plane. if you can bring your own sandwiches on holiday, then that’s perfect for you – no one wants to pay £15 for chicken nuggets and chips! be honest with yourself, however. are you worried because you don’t have the cash to spare? if so, is it the right time to plan a journey? or are you worried about being swindled? maybe it’s time to just roll with the punches, so to speak, and if you find a place that requires money, but it will make a great memory for the family, then just allow yourself to let go once in a while. your family will be happy, and you don’t have to spend too much money on holiday, as you’ve already planned for the cheapest journey and destination. you’re laid back holidays are a time to let go, not to worry about what will happen. you are a mix of someone who likes to try new experiences or can stay in the same place for two weeks – you don’t care, as long as you are on holiday. you’re highly agreeable and you don’t get too bothered when you encounter problems on holiday, like travel delays, unhelpful staff or when someone gets sick. you plan for experience and fun, not the kitchen sink and if you forget something then, what the hey, “we’ll pick it up on the way!” it’s a fun way to be and you make a great companion on holiday. however, those who are too agreeable may get taken advantage of, and you may not know of some dangers of travel. however, if this situation happens, you’ll fix it and you’ll move on. sometimes we just can’t control everything, can we? just make sure you’re taking your family’s worries seriously and that you don’t shoo them away for the sake of having a relaxed holiday experience. interestingly enough, i am a little bit of all of the above, so it’s hard for me to plan sometimes when my mood is in penny pinching mode, or in laid back mode. a tyre company called tyreplus sent me an infographic, which posed the question about what people think about before they head on their journey and the road trips they enjoy, which can be heavily influenced by their personality. this infographic is what inspired me to write this post, so i’d like to share it with you below: so, whichever personality you fit into, it’s important to take other family member’s personalities into account, and make sure you’re planning for that journey. as long as you have the basics in mind, and you’ve found yourself a good deal before you set off, then you should be good to go with no further worry or arguments along the way. *collaborative feature post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:experiencesholidaysjourneypersonalityplanningtraveltyreplus related posts the best holiday destinations for new pa... 21 travel hacks you need to know this su... tips for travelling with children avoid holiday disasters – a guide ... ghostly cork how to enjoy a proper sit-down family me... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sard... benefits of using public transport over ... 10 reasons why you should rent an rv thi... how to prepare for a baby – the first-ye... summer car trips with the kids go camping with the family this summer w... have you visited the winter wonderland y... how to rv in the winter sharm el-sheikh – a top class thomson ho... keeping the kids entertained during trav... top seasonal family friendly holidays wh... 6 reasons why you should take your baby ... top 3 great things i want to do with the... my top ten tips for travelling with tiri... 7 reasons why you should take the family... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok