login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit i can has cheezburger? favorite dog was so happy his owner is home now that he sprained his tail from too much wagging rolo is a 7-year-old dachshund from the united kingdom. when this good boy realized his owner, emma smith, is staying home due to the coronavirus pandemic, he couldn't contain his excitement and started wagging his tail so much that he, unfortunately, sprained it. his owner twitted the story which was shared by more than 140,000 times and liked by more than 1 million people, including "the morning show" and "friends" star jennifer aniston. smith continued on updating about her happy pooch in the following days and even set up rolo with his own instagram account — rolo.thehotdog — so that interested pup lovers can "follow my journey getting my wag back." posted by elinorsalo share tweet stumble pin it email 1 pin it via /emmasmith77xx 2 didn’t expect this happen😂, for those asking, he is currently on pain relief and the vet said he should be healed within a week, this is him on the 2nd day. he is super happy and there is now movement from side to side but he is struggling to lift it up in the air. pic.twitter.com/dy0o96hopj — emma smith (@emmasmith77xx) march 21, 2020 pin it via /emmasmith77xx 3 pin it via emmasmith77xx 4 thanks for everyone’s concern, im sure he will be back wagging like this in no time 😊 pic.twitter.com/xyt3qr9kji — emma smith (@emmasmith77xx) march 21, 2020 pin it via emmasmith77xx 5 pin it via emmasmith77xx 6 pin it via shooksta 7 pin it via jllfood_ken repost - vote - recaption share tweet stumble pin it email dogs tail wagging funny dogs quarantine next on i can has cheezburger? top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 comments - click to show - click to hide upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter