wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » what’s the difference between domain name and web hosting (explained) what’s the difference between domain name and web hosting (explained) last updated on february 14th, 2019 by editorial staff 417 shares share tweet share pin we are often asked by our readers to explain what is the difference between a domain name and web hosting? many beginners don’t know that these are two separate things. in this beginner’s guide, we will explain the difference between a domain name and web hosting. what is a domain name? domain name is the address of your website that people type in the browser’s url bar to visit your website. in other words, if your website was a house, then your domain name will be its address. now let’s get into the detailed explanation. internet is basically a giant network of computers connected to each other through cables. to easily identify them, each computer is assigned a series of numbers called ip address. this ip address is a combination of numbers separated with dots. typically, ip addresses look like this: 66.249.66.1 computers have no problem identifying and remembering these numbers. however, it is impossible for humans to remember and use these numbers to connect to websites on the internet. to solve this problem, domain names were invented. a domain name can have words which makes it easy to remember website addresses. now if you wanted to visit a website on the internet, you don’t need to type a string of numbers. instead, you can type in an easy to remember domain name, for example, wpbeginner.com. to learn more about domain names, take a look at our beginner’s guide on domain names and how do they work. what is web hosting? web hosting is the place where all the files of your website live. it is like the home of your website where it actually lives. a good way to think about this is if the domain name was the address of your house, then web hosting is the actual house that address points to. all websites on the internet, need web hosting. when someone enters your domain name in a browser, the domain name is translated into the ip address of your web hosting company’s computer. this computer contains your website’s files, and it sends those files back to the users’ browsers. web hosting companies specialize in storing and serving websites. they offer different types of hosting plans to their customers. see our article on wordpress hosting to learn more about choosing the right hosting for your website. how domain names and web hosting are related? domain names and web hosting are two different services. however, they work together to make websites possible. basically a domain name system is like a massive address book that is constantly updated. behind each domain name, there is an address of the web hosting service storing the website’s files. without domain names, it will not be possible for people to find your website and without web hosting you cannot build a website. what do i need to build a website? domain name or web hosting? to build a website you will need both a domain name and web hosting account. buying a domain name alone only gives you right to use that particular domain name for a specific period (usually 1 year). you need web hosting to store your website’s files. after you get hosting, you need to update your domain name settings and point it to your web hosting service provider. you can also buy both the domain and hosting from the same company. typically a domain name costs $14.99 / year, and web hosting normally costs $7.99 / month. if you are starting your first website, then this may sound like a lot. thankfully, bluehost, an official wordpress recommended hosting provider, has agreed to offer our users a free domain name and over 60% off on web hosting. → click here to start with bluehost ← once you have purchased hosting and registered your domain name, you can start building your website. for complete step by step instructions, see our guide on how to make a website. do i have to buy them together? or can i buy them separately? you can buy domain name and web hosting from two different companies. however, in that case you will have to point your domain name to your web hosting company by editing its dns settings. on the other hand, if you purchase your domain name and web hosting from the same company, then you will not have to change domain name settings. it is also much easier to manage and renew both services under the same dashboard. if you want to buy domain names separately, then you can do so from top providers like: godaddy and namecheap. can i move my domain name to a different company? yes, you can. normally when you register the domain name, you own the right to use it and transfer it anywhere you want. for example, let’s say you purchased your domain name from godaddy and bought your hosting from bluehost. now you want to move your domain name to bluehost, so that it is easier to manage and renew. you can easily do that. both companies have detailed step by step instructions that you can follow to transfer your domain name. note: we recommend you to wait at least 45 days after the registration or renewal to initiate the transfer. icann, the international organization that oversees domain names, requires one year renewal whenever a transfer is initiated. by transferring your domain name before that period you could lose that year’s renewal fee. can i move my website to another web hosting company without changing domain? yes, you can do that as well. you own the domain name and can change its settings to point it to any web hosting company. for example, you purchased your domain name and hosting from godaddy, and now you want to move your web hosting to bluehost. you can move your site from one host to another by simply transferring files and data. after that you need to edit your domain name settings and point them to your new web hosting provider. another example, you purchased your domain name from wordpress.com (see our guide on the difference between wordpress.com vs wordpress.org). later you want to move to self hosted wordpress.org website. first, you will need to sign up for a wordpress hosting account. after that you can move your site from wordpress.com to wordpress.org. lastly, you will just edit your domain name settings on wordpress.com and point them to your new wordpress hosting provider. we hope this article helped you learn the difference between a domain name and web hosting. you may also want to see our comparison of popular website builders for beginners with pros and cons. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 417 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to start your own podcast (step by step) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 53 commentsleave a reply ogohi says: jan 29, 2020 at 10:50 am thanks for the elaborate explanation. pls may i know if it’s possible to link an extra domain name to a website? for example, i hosted my site with example.com and now i just bought another domain, example.com.ng. so, is possible to link the new domain to the same site? your response will be greatly appreciated. thank you reply wpbeginner support says: jan 30, 2020 at 10:16 am you would want to check with your hosting provider as some hosts have a method for setting up that redirect for you reply digitalumesh says: dec 24, 2019 at 4:01 am excellent post! it’s really helpful for all those who are confused by the domain name and web hosting. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 26, 2019 at 10:32 am thank you, glad our guide could be helpful reply mike says: oct 1, 2019 at 1:35 pm hi, thank you for this detailed article. i bought my domain name on godaddy though want to work on my domain name website on siteground. is it safe to move the domain name i bought 2 days ago if though you stated “we recommend you to wait at least 45 days after the registration or renewal to imitate the transfer?” reply wpbeginner support says: oct 2, 2019 at 10:08 am we would still recommend waiting the day limitation and changing your domain’s nameservers to point toward siteground so you can use your site while waiting to transfer your domain. reply nitesh says: aug 13, 2019 at 6:20 am loved your post reply wpbeginner support says: aug 13, 2019 at 10:06 am thank you, glad you enjoyed our post reply anu says: aug 11, 2019 at 11:24 pm hi… i have doubts.. can i buy the web hosting, if it comes with domain names? can i change the domain name or web hosting, if i am not satisfied? why can i buy domain name with web hosting? please reply. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 12, 2019 at 10:48 am yes, you can purchase hosting that has a domain with the purchase. you can change domains or your hosting provider later should you want. as sites need domains to be findable, some hosting providers have bundled domains with their hosting reply anu says: aug 12, 2019 at 11:00 am can u tell the list who gives bundles of domains with web hosting? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 13, 2019 at 9:48 am for that, you would want to take a look at our list here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wordpress-hosting/ jessica igwe says: jul 19, 2019 at 9:17 am hello my question is, is it better to buy domain from a hosting company, or buy domain from a domain that specializes in domains? vice versa, should i buy hosting from a hosting company and not from a domain company? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jul 22, 2019 at 11:57 am for purchasing domains, it is personal preference as most providers have improved their ability to handle domains. for hosting, we recommend purchasing from a hosting provider. reply destiny felinah says: jul 13, 2019 at 3:53 am again, please does every website have a blog section? and can i use my website domain name for my blog? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 15, 2019 at 11:17 am no, a blog section is not required. yes, you can use your domain name for your blog. reply destiny felinah says: jul 13, 2019 at 3:51 am you can’t imagine how much help you’ve given me. only from the first paragraph the confusion in my head was cleared. you explained it so well and detailed. that’s a while lot lot. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 15, 2019 at 11:16 am glad our guide could help clear things up reply marleydsouza says: jun 26, 2019 at 5:55 am yes, this is really important to know the difference between a domain and web hosting, it will helpful for everyone. every beginner can get information from this post despite of any other sites. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 26, 2019 at 11:08 am thank you, we were hoping this content would remove some user confusion reply jessica says: may 29, 2019 at 8:56 am this is a really informative post! quick question – so my domain name and web hosting are both with bluehost but i’m going to go elsewhere. when looking at other websites, i can choose the option for web hosting or wordpress hosting…is it the wordpress hosting option i choose? i have a wordpress.org website. also do you know how it works when you have a domain name up for renewal and choose to move it i.e. do you move this then renew it with the new provider or will the date of moving it be the start of the renewal? reply wpbeginner support says: may 29, 2019 at 10:43 am if you take a closer look, some of the wordpress hostings are managed hosting: https://www.wpbeginner.com/managed-wordpress-hosting/ your renewal date, even if you change registrars should be the same as with your first host reply nick says: apr 24, 2019 at 12:54 am if you have a domain name and your own server that you built with a hdd that has all the files on it then why would you need web hosting to store your files it just don’t make no sense reply wpbeginner support says: apr 24, 2019 at 11:52 am purchasing hosting means a user does not need to know how to set up a hosting environment that is able to be connected to on the internet. reply adamu maigari says: mar 31, 2019 at 2:21 pm fantastic, i really love this blog 100%, may god bless you all. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 1, 2019 at 1:28 pm glad you like our content reply sam says: mar 18, 2019 at 1:42 pm thank you for the information. can i switch the names around? i bought both domain name and web hosting but i liked the web hosting name better. can i use the names interchangeably? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 1:43 pm if you reach out to your hosting provider they can help you use one domain while pointing the other domain to your primary domain. reply vugh johnson says: mar 8, 2019 at 10:10 pm i have a web hosting account with godaddy but i don’t want to buy a domain name right now. what address would i have to type to view my web files in my hosting account if i don’t have a domain name? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 11, 2019 at 11:24 am you would want to reach out to godaddy for their current methods available to do this. reply cheri says: feb 26, 2019 at 11:37 am i thank you for your article. it has been informative. but i guess what i would like to know is the cost, bottom line. i mean after all the “first year” offers. i keep a budget for my business and i would just like to know what the final cost will be two years from now so i’m not surprised. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 27, 2019 at 10:12 am that would depend on your hosting provider, on their pricing pages they should state the cost for renewal or you can reach out to the host and they should let you know. reply paul says: jan 31, 2019 at 9:31 pm yes this was an important step. when i initially started my website back in 2012 the instructions for a beginner self taught like me was very confusing. i started hosting from bluehost but has a registered domain name through wp. so basically i’m paying hosting fees separately on top of the fees of $18 on wp. if i did miss it back then bluehost didn’t have its own domain name registration just hosting. since i was using wp theme i used wordpress.com for this to point to my website files in bluehost. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 1, 2019 at 10:12 am thanks for sharing, should anyone run into this issue now, once you wait 60 days you would be able to transfer your domain to bluehost reply mia says: dec 15, 2018 at 1:52 pm hello, so your post is helpful but i have a similar yet different question. so i opened a blog on simplest today and bought my domain name, however i ‘tried’ to insert ads to my dashboard and now my simple site editor won’t load. nevermind that, my question is, if i transfer my domain name to wordpress, will i be charged an extra fee on top of the one i paid for simple site and for my domain, or is wordpress free to use their platform as long as you have a domain name? thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: dec 17, 2018 at 4:31 pm hi mia, please see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. reply vijayanathan says: nov 24, 2018 at 5:53 am if i want to host my own website buying only the domainname is enough right? reply wpbeginner support says: nov 27, 2018 at 9:45 am hi vijaynathan, you will still need web hosting to store your files on a server. reply ayesha says: nov 20, 2018 at 3:49 am its really great article!!! if i bought domain from godaddy and host from hostgator, later i decided to change my host to bluehost, is that easy ? please guide me. reply emily bernstein says: sep 13, 2018 at 3:29 am thank you for explaining the domain vs hosting…very helpful info…. reply jannat1234 says: aug 11, 2018 at 2:27 pm i have learn about domain and hosting from this post.this is a great article.thanks for sharing this article. reply jackie says: jul 28, 2018 at 5:21 pm wow! the light came on and now i see. i have subscribed and am eager to learn more. thank you! reply misheal ilonze says: jul 25, 2018 at 11:04 am pls i have 2 questions 1. if i signup for bluehost blog will it be seen on the browser as mydomainname.bluehost.com or will it appear mydomainname.com 2. can i buy my domain name first from bluehost and later host with bluehost reply wpbeginner support says: jul 27, 2018 at 12:33 am hi misheal, it will be yourdomainname.com. yes you can, however if you signup for hosting then you will get a domain name for free. reply misheal ilonze says: aug 13, 2018 at 8:11 am thanks for the reply, i just started a blog with blogger. example.blogspot.com now how can i switch it to example.com?? pls reply reply wpbeginner support says: aug 14, 2018 at 9:22 pm hi misheal, please see our guide on how to move from blogger to wordpress. jerry says: jun 12, 2018 at 8:23 am hi – just to check so if i have a domain name with wix i can use that same name/ site to another web hosing? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 12, 2018 at 11:47 am hi jerry, yes, you can use the same domain name with another web hosting. reply jerry peres says: feb 16, 2018 at 4:49 am great post. thank you for covering up such topic in your article. it’s really helpful for all those who are confused by the domain name and web hosting. reply abdallah hemedi says: jan 3, 2018 at 2:05 pm awesome and analytical post, i have understood the relationship domain and hosting. reply cassie says: jan 2, 2018 at 3:07 pm another great topic, and the analogy you use, to address and actual home was inspired. and helpful. please go on to a great new year! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 2, 2018 at 7:02 pm hi cassie, thanks for the feedback reply sabih says: jan 2, 2018 at 1:34 pm that’s a major misconception of people with domain and a hosting service. both are different, reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) aweber coupon get 100% off for your first month with aweber. start your first month for free. designevo coupon get 25% off on designevo premium logo making service. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.