bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr professional email with microsoft office 365 powerful tools to power your business custom email for your domain simple yet powerful business email office applications, tools, and more see pricing additional terms apply professional domain name email for your business. all the apps you know and love, available in the cloud. collaborate with your users via microsoft teams. requires hosting plan* email essentials first yr. ca$4.01 per license/mo.* renews at ca$6.69 per license/mo. select emails and calendars 15 gb email storage outlook web access business plus first yr. ca$8.03 per license/mo.* renews at ca$13.40 per license/mo. select emails and calendars 50 gb email storage outlook web access 1 tb onedrive microsoft teams microsoft office online business pro first yr. ca$13.40 per license/mo.* renews at ca$20.11 per license/mo. select emails and calendars 50 gb email storage outlook web access 1 tb onedrive microsoft teams microsoft office online microsoft office for desktop access + publisher for desktop bookings and invoicing tools outlook customer manager all plans include microsoft outlook web access manage your email from anywhere, at any time, on any device with microsoft web access via the cloud. automatic microsoft updates worrying about software or application updates is no longer necessary thanks to automatic updates from microsoft. security and disaster recovery microsoft office 365 ensures your data remains safe and secure with industry-leading security and recovery protocols. microsoft 99.9% uptime guarantee your tools and email will always be there when you need them. our 99.9% uptime guarantee is a cornerstone of our service. intuitive management dashboard your microsoft office 365 account is managed from a single, user-friendly dashboard; no multiple logins. 24/7 expert support we're here to help when you need us, 24/7/365 to assist with anything related to your office 365 or hosting account. professional email at your fingertips not only does a professional domain name email address drive awareness to your brand or business by displaying the domain to your customers with each email you send, but it also adds credibility simply by virtue of being connected to your domain. all the apps you need; anytime, anywhere word, excel, powerpoint, outlook, and more, are all available in the business plus and business pro plans; access these tools anywhere you have a internet connection. with business pro, you can also download these applications directly to your device to keep working, even offline. teamwork = success collaboration across your team is a huge factor in creating a successful business. with integrated video meetings and shared working documents, microsoft office 365 takes teamwork to a new level of transparency and ease. no more lost data or miscommunication between teams or team members. stay on the same page, and moving towards the same goal, with microsoft office 365. start with microsoft office 365 today choose plan subscriptions & pricing email essentials first yr. ca$4.01 per license/mo.* select business plus first yr. ca$8.03 per license/mo.* select business pro first yr. ca$13.40 per license/mo.* select one business class email and calendar (exchange online) 15gb 50gb 50gb email set up with your business domain name outlook web access 24/7 technical support world-class security and disaster recovery protection cloud storage and file sharing: onedrive for business 1tb 1tb microsoft office (online only) microsoft teams sharepoint full microsoft office (online and desktop) access, publisher (desktop version) multiple device access per user bookings, invoicing outlook customer manager, mileiq email essentials first yr. ca$4.01 per license/mo.* select one business class email and calendar (exchange online) 15gb email set up with your business domain name outlook web access 24/7 technical support world-class security and disaster recovery protection cloud storage and file sharing: onedrive for business microsoft office (online only) microsoft teams sharepoint full microsoft office (online and desktop) access, publisher (desktop version) multiple device access per user bookings, invoicing outlook customer manager, mileiq business plus first yr. ca$8.03 per license/mo.* select one business class email and calendar (exchange online) 50gb email set up with your business domain name outlook web access 24/7 technical support world-class security and disaster recovery protection cloud storage and file sharing: onedrive for business 1tb microsoft office (online only) microsoft teams sharepoint full microsoft office (online and desktop) access, publisher (desktop version) multiple device access per user bookings, invoicing outlook customer manager, mileiq business pro first yr. ca$13.40 per license/mo.* select one business class email and calendar (exchange online) 50gb email set up with your business domain name outlook web access 24/7 technical support world-class security and disaster recovery protection cloud storage and file sharing: onedrive for business 1tb microsoft office (online only) microsoft teams sharepoint full microsoft office (online and desktop) access, publisher (desktop version) multiple device access per user bookings, invoicing outlook customer manager, mileiq need a customized solution? bluehost supports millions of customers worldwide. let our experts help you get started with microsoft office 365 today. 888-401-4678 chat faqs what is office 365? how is it different from microsoft office? office 365 allows users to make use of microsoft office applications like word, powerpoint, and excel from any location online as well as ensures that the application is always up-to-date; you'll never have to worry about downloading the latest version or hassle with any licenses. on certain plans, users can access those applications from their desktop as well as applications like publisher and access. office 365 brings the best of microsoft's productivity suite and combines it with the accessibility of the cloud. traditionally, microsoft office has only been offered as a desktop application suite and not available online to be used remotely. office 365 breaks that limitation by offering the same functionality of familiar applications anywhere. add your domain to office 365 and start reaping the benefits immediately. what are the benefits of having a business email domain? a domain name email address, like info@yourdomain.com, helps your business or brand look more professional and foster improved trust with prospects, customers, and visitors. ultimately it helps promote your website and company. each time you send an email from a domain-based email address, you are reinforcing the name of your business, blog, or website to your visitors, which helps your visitors remember where to go when they need your services. what if i already own a domain? you can easily add your domain to your office 365 subscription through the office 365 management dashboard located in your control panel. can i switch to other office 365 plans? yes. if you need to upgrade, you can transition your account to a different plan. for example, you can upgrade from an office 365 business essentials plan to an office 365 business premium plan. simply locate the office 365 section of your customer control panel and select the plan you wish to upgrade to. follow the on screen instructions to complete check out. when you upgrade your account, your domain name is transferred to your new account, whether you brought your own domain name to the office 365 account or you set up a new domain name with office 365. i will need extra help setting up office 365. who can help? our support teams are here to help and available 24/7. if you need extra assistance, do not hesitate to start a chat or call our support teams directly. our office 365 experts will walk you through the setup of your account and help answer any additional questions you may have. which desktop applications come with the business essentials and business premium plans? desktop versions of microsoft word, excel, powerpoint, access, and publisher are all available on business premium only. however, business essentials does allow for online access to sharepoint, microsoft word, excel, and powerpoint. will the excel, powerpoint and word programs i already have installed on my computer work with my cloud storage and office online? onedrive cloud storage is a feature of business essentials and business premium and works best with the latest version of microsoft office, office 2013, office 2010, and office 2011 and 2016 for mac. with these versions of office, you can select files stored in the cloud and edit them using your desktop applications instead of office online. simply open the file you wish to edit, click 'edit in word/excel/powerpoint' and when you click 'save' within those applications, your document will sync back to your storage. what happens to my data if i cancel my subscription? your data is yours. if you decide to cancel your office 365 subscription, you can download your data—for example, your email and documents on team sites—and save it to another location. you should save your data before you cancel. after you cancel your subscription, data associated with your office 365 account will be available to your administrator(s) in a limited function account for 30 days. can i cancel my subscription at any time? you can cancel your subscription at any time. you can set your subscription to expire within your customer dashboard and you will not be rebilled at the end of your billing cycle for the microsoft office 365 service. there are also no cancellation fees. call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 intro price ca$4.01 per license/mo.* get started * the promotional price is for the first term only and renews at the regular rate. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.