wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » deals » hosting » domain.com coupon domain.com coupon domain.com is a popular domain registrar and web hosting service. their website makes it really easy to use to search for and register domain names. they also offer domain protection, ssl certificates, vps hosting, web designing, whois lookup tool, and more. they value your security, and that’s why domain privacy is recommended with each domain. the best part is that wpbeginner users can get 25% off on domains (and on extras like domain privacy) by using our exclusive domain.com coupon code. coupon code nameboy (click to copy & open site) last used 8 hours ago reviewed by: syed balkhi rating: how to use the domain.com coupon code? wpbeginner’s exclusive domain.com coupon code lets you get 25% off on all their domains, including .com and .net domains. using this discount, you can get a .com domain name for just $7.49. all you have to do is follow our instructions below to properly redeem the domain.com coupon code, so you can get the best discount on domain.com. first, go to the domain.com website using our link. type the domain name that you want into the search box. if your domain name is available, then it will be automatically added to your cart. you can also select other domain extensions here. for instance, you could register mywebsitename.com and mywebsitename.net. when you’re ready, click the ‘continue’ button. you’ll see some addons that you can buy if you want to. if you don’t want any of them, simply click the ‘proceed to billing’ button. this will take you to the payment page, which looks like this: note that domain.com will have added your chosen domain to your cart for a 2 year term. you can change this to 1 year if you want. you can also remove the domain protection, though this isn’t recommended. you’ll see a warning prompting you to confirm that you really want to remove it: before you pay, you need to enter the coupon code nameboy in the coupon code box. click ‘apply’ and you should see a message confirming that your discount has been applied. if you’ve chosen a .com domain name for a year, it should now cost you $7.49 instead of $9.99. your 25% discount applies to the domain privacy and protection, too, which will cost you $6.74 for the year instead of $8.99. on the left side, you can enter your billing information and choose whether to pay by credit card or paypal. we hope you found our domain.com coupon code to be helpful. at wpbeginner, we work hard to negotiate exclusive discounts for our users. please check out our other wordpress coupons and deals. other amazing deals wp manage ninja coupon get 15% off on wp manage ninja wordpress themes and plugins. view this deal » fulltext search coupon get 15% off on fulltext search wordpress search plugin. view this deal » monsterinsights coupon get 50% off monsterinsights, the best google analytics plugin for wordpress. view this deal » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.