moz products blog about search resources resources moz pro moz local free seo tools log in menu icon-close seo learning center broaden your seo knowledge with resources for all skill levels. the beginner's guide to seo if you're brand new to seo, start here. seo q&a get answers from the moz community. free downloads and more quick access to whitepapers, reports, guides, webinars, and case studies. help hub learn how to use moz products. community & events connect with over 600k online marketers. seo training instructor-led classes and seminars an all-in-one seo toolset to boost your search engine rankings. learn about moz pro get started free link explorer the ultimate link analysis tool, complete with competitor insights. keyword explorer discover and prioritize the best keywords for your site. mozbar get live page metrics right in your chrome browser. moz pro home campaigns monitor your seo performance and get insights to increase organic traffic. local market analytics beta spot opportunity in target markets with local metrics and top serp competitors. research tools keyword explorer link explorer fresh web explorer on-page grader on-demand crawl rank checker local data management solution to help customers find your business online. learn about moz local get started free moz local enterprise local data management that is simple and cost effective for hundreds or thousands of locations. check my online presence see how complete and consistent your business’s location appears across the web. manage location dashboard check online presence search products blog about resources seo learning center the beginner's guide to seo seo q&a free downloads and more help hub community & events seo training moz pro learn about moz pro moz pro home link explorer keyword explorer mozbar moz local learn about moz local moz local enterprise check my online presence free seo tools log in fundamentals what is seo? what is a serp feature? domain authority page authority related resources ranking & visibility on-site seo links & link building local seo keywords & keyword research mobile seo international seo crawling & site audits analytics & reporting beginner's guide to seo free seo tools google algorithm change history workshops & training seo learning center ranking and visibility domain authority domain authority what is domain authority? domain authority (da) is a search engine ranking score developed by moz that predicts how well a website will rank on search engine result pages (serps). a domain authority score ranges from one to 100, with higher scores corresponding to a greater ability to rank. domain authority is calculated by evaluating multiple factors, including linking root domains and the number of total links, into a single da score. this score can then be used when comparing websites or tracking the "ranking strength" of a website over time. domain authority is not a metric used by google in determining search rankings and has no effect on the serps. how can you check domain authority? you can check domain authority using moz's link explorer, the mozbar (moz's free seo toolbar), or in the serp analysis section of keyword explorer. domain authority metrics are also incorporated into all moz pro campaigns, as well as the moz api. domain authority metrics are incorporated into dozens of seo and online marketing platforms across the web. check your domain authority free: how is domain authority scored? we score domain authority on a 100-point logarithmic scale. thus, it's significantly easier to grow your score from 20 to 30 than it is to grow from 70 to 80. what is a "good" domain authority? generally speaking, sites with a very large number of high-quality external links (such as wikipedia or google.com) are at the top end of the domain authority scale, whereas small businesses and websites with fewer inbound links may have a much lower da score. brand-new websites will always start with a domain authority score of one. because domain authority is meant to be a predictor of a site's ranking ability, having a very high da score shouldn't be your only goal. look at the da scores for the sites you're directly competing with in the serps and aim to have a higher score than your competitors. it's best used as a comparative metric (rather than an absolute, concrete score) when doing research in the search results and determining which sites may have more powerful/important link profiles than others. because it's a comparative tool, there isn't necessarily a "good" or "bad" domain authority score. how to use domain authority correctly domain authority vs. page authority whereas domain authority measures the predictive ranking strength of entire domains or subdomains, page authority measures the strength of individual pages. technical definition of domain authority domain authority is based on data from our link explorer web index and uses dozens of factors in its calculations. the actual domain authority calculation itself uses a machine learning model to predictively find a "best fit" algorithm that most closely correlates our link data with rankings across thousands of actual search results that we use as standards to scale against. since authority is based on machine learning calculations, your site's score will often fluctuate as more, less, or different data points are used in the calculation — for instance, if facebook were to acquire a billion new links, everyone's pa and da would drop relative to facebook. for this reason, keep in mind that you should always use domain authority as a relative metric to compare against the link profiles of other sites, as opposed to an absolute value scoring the efficacy of your internal seo efforts. how do i influence domain authority? domain authority is difficult to influence directly. it is made up of an aggregate of metrics and link data that have an impact on the authority score. this was done intentionally; this metric is meant to approximate how competitive a given site is in google search results. since google takes a lot of factors into account, a metric that tries to calculate it must incorporate a lot of factors as well. the best way to influence the domain authority metric is to improve your overall seo. in particular, you should focus on your link profile by getting more links from other well-linked-to pages. why did my authority change? because domain authority (and, for that matter, page authority) is comprised of multiple metrics and calculations, pinpointing the exact cause of a change can be a challenge. if your score has gone up or down, there are many potential influencing factors including things like: your link profile growth hasn't yet been captured in our web index. the highest-authority sites experienced substantial link growth, skewing the scaling process. you earned links from places that don't contribute to google ranking. we crawled (and included in our index) more or fewer of your linking domains than we had previously. your domain authority is on the lower end of the scoring spectrum and is thus more impacted by scaling fluctuation. you can read more about how to interpret these (and other) fluctuations in authority scores here. the key to understanding page and domain authority fluctuations is that these metrics don't exist in a vacuum — they depend on many positive and negative factors so that even if a given site improves its seo, its authority score(s) may not always reflect it. a good metaphor to help understand why is how "best of" rankings work. let's look at an example: if singapore has the best air quality in 2015, and improves it even further in 2016, are they guaranteed to remain at #1? what if denmark also improves its air quality, or new zealand (which, say, had been left out of the rankings in 2015) joins the rating system? maybe countries 2–10 all improved dramatically and singapore has now fallen to #11, even though they technically got better, not worse. because there are many other factors at play, singapore's ranking could change in spite of any action (or inaction) whatsoever on their part. domain authority (and page authority) work in a similar fashion. since they're scaled on a 100-point system, after each update, the recalculations mean that authority score of a given page/site could go down even if that page/site has improved their link quantity and quality. such is the nature of a relative, scaled system. as such — and this is important enough that we'll emphasize it once more — authority scores are best viewed as comparative rather than absolute metrics. keep learning page authority external links when and how to use domain authority, page authority, and link count metrics how to rank: 25-step master blueprint put your skills to work gauge a site's influence with link explorer link explorer is a link popularity and backlink analysis tool that lets you research and compare any site on the web. link explorer analyze links moz contact products api free trial terms & privacy jobs help news & press copyright 2020 © moz, inc. all rights reserved. back to top seo tools keyword research seo audit & crawl backlink research rank tracking seo toolbar domain analysis local marketing business listings audit citation cleanup local ranking factors local for enterprise marketing resources moz blog beginner’s guide to seo community q&a workshops & training recommended seo companies moz solutions agency enterprise small & mid-sized businesses get the moz top 10 the 10 most valuable pieces of content we can find for seos. every 2 weeks. subscribe today