flash sale 30-days money-back guarantee free domain 24/7 customer supportview offer up to 90 % off flash sale web hosting plans + free domain when you complete your order in ... 02 days 11 hours 17 minutes 07 seconds get my 90 off! up to 90 % off flash sale 1-click installer php 7.4 support optimized for wordpressview offer up to 90 % off flash sale: web hostingfrom $0.99 /month!get started × transfer your domain enter the domain that you would like to transfer to hostinger sorry, this top-level domain cannot be transferred to hostinger at the moment. seems like this domain is available for registry. would you like to register it?sorry, this domain is already hosted somewhere and it cannot be transferred.to transfer your 000webhost website you need to upgrade. if you already upgraded use live chat in your new hpanel so customer success staff could help you transfer your data. or upgrade now.an unexpected error occurred. please try again later. 100% control on your web projects this refers to everyone, no matter what hosting or domain provider you choose. everything in one place simply makes it more efficient - complete control on all your services without missing a renewal date, ease of use with no multiple accounts and passwords and professional customer support with the answers you need. in any case, it is worth transferring your domain name to your hostinger account. before transferring your domain name, make sure of the following: it's been more than 60 days since the domain registration or last transfer. domain is not in pending delete or redemption status. you know domain's epp code - the authorization code that proves your ownership of the domain. you can get the epp code from the current domain provider. whois privacy protection is disabled. get started - transfer now once you have everything you need, perform these 4 simple steps: 1enter the domain name you want to transfer. 2proceed with the purchase. 3enter the epp code. 4confirm your transfer. afterwards check your email. you will receive a confirmation letter from your domain registry. once confirmed, we will initiate the domain transfer immediately. the time it takes to complete the transfer varies depending on the domain extension. usually, it takes no longer than 5 days. we hope you've found useful piece of information here and domain transfer process is clearer to you now! start saving now! all-in-one web hosting & domain name from $ 0 99 /mo get started now hosting web hosting vps hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting email hosting cms hosting ecommerce hosting free website hosting website builder cheap web hosting buy hosting windows vps minecraft server hosting web design services domains domain checker domain transfer free domain xyz domain cheap ssl certificate buy domain name whois checker domain name search 99 cent domains free ssl certificate information server status affiliate program payment methods wall of love reviews student discount pricing youtube creators our mission is to make life easier for website developers and their customers. we do it by offering easy to use, fast and reliable web hosting services. and more help report abuse knowledge base tutorials blog company about hostinger contact us our technology career legal privacy policy terms of service © 2004-2020 hostinger.com - premium web hosting, cloud, vps & domain registration services. prices are listed without vat