contact us logo our mission shipping carbon offsets product donations flexport.org fund donate contact us fund covid-19 aid shipments there is a significant shortage of covid-19 related relief items. currently, the flexport.org fund exclusively focuses on supporting the sourcing and transport of supplies related to the coronavirus pandemic. by helping to cover the logistics costs, you’re enabling supplies worth thousands of dollars to reach people in need. responding to covid-19 ready to multiply your impact? flexport.org launched a gofundme campaign to ship relief to frontline responders. all donations to the flexport.org fund are managed by caf america, our selected partner and global grantmaking organization. donate now donate by check: for checks, this gift form must be filled out & emailed or mailed to caf america (info@cafamerica.org), the grantmaking organization that administers the flexport.org fund. write a check payable to: caf america mail the check and gift form to: caf america 225 reinekers lane, suite 375, alexandria, va 22314, usa donate by wire transfer: for wire transfer instructions, please contact relief@flexport.com. providing aid related to the coronavirus (covid-19) pandemic on march 11th 2020, the world health organization declared the coronavirus outbreak a pandemic. flexport.org works with nonprofits, government agencies and companies around the world to get urgently needed supplies such as personal protective equipment and hygiene items to communities in need. for example, we work with distribute aid, a nonprofit connecting refugee aid groups. the emergencies in europe are intensifying and many refugees don’t have access to running water or soap. distribute aid needs funding for multiple trucking shipments of essential products like hygiene and cleaning supplies as well as clothes that will be sent to greece, serbia and italy. donate to the frontline responders fund on gofundme to support projects like this & other initiatives $4,900 could support 1 trucking shipment for this cause every dollar counts even if you aren’t able to fund a full cargo move but want to contribute in some way, we will direct your funds towards a shipment targeted for good. donate what you can; any dollar amount helps to 1) empower organizations to respond as quickly as possible and 2) provide sustained support after the disaster to enable successful recovery. donate to the flexport.org fund, managed by caf america rebuilding the bahamas after hurricane dorian our bahamas recovery efforts will continue to assist the long-term reconstruction of homes and hospitals for communities and families in need. our nonprofit partners good360 and medshare need funding to ship 3 containers of supplies from the us to the bahamas. good360 will be sending furniture to support home rebuilding efforts and medshare will be providing medical supplies worth ~$100k which provides healthcare to over 12,500 people. donate to the flexport.org fund, managed by caf america to support projects like this & other initiatives $5,500 could support 1 container for this cause quality health care for some of the poorest people in the world sierra leone is one of the poorest countries in the world. it is estimated that 60% of its population live below the national poverty line. our nonprofit partner works hand-in-hand with the ministry of health and sanitation in sierra leone, helping to bring health care to some of the poorest communities. through their work, supplies and training are provided to government-run health centers and the public koidu government hospital. partners in health needs funding to ship 1 container of medical and office equipment (such as lab drawing and infusion chairs) sent from the u.s. to sierra leone. donate to the flexport.org fund, managed by caf america to support projects like this & other initiatives $5,000 could support 1 container for this cause * flexport.org is directly involved in humanitarian aid responses with a dedicated team. once we collect enough donations to cover the costs of transportation for a humanitarian aid project (e.g. one container or one trucking shipment), we will work with our nonprofit partners to schedule the shipment. please be advised that the context of responses might change and the described projects might be modified or cancelled. in that case, your donation will be used for other aid related shipments that 1) empower organizations to respond to crises as quickly as possible or 2) provide sustained support after the disaster to enable successful recovery. all donations to the flexport.org fund are managed by caf america. legal customs brokerage services are provided by flexport’s wholly-owned subsidiary, flexport customs llc, a licensed customs brokerage with a national permit. international ocean freight forwarding services are provided by flexport international llc, a licensed ocean transportation intermediary fmc# 025219nf. u.s. trucking services are provided by flexport international, llc, a fmcsa licensed property broker usdot #2594279 and mc #906604-b. all transactions are subject to flexport’s standard terms and conditions, available at www.flexport.com/terms 沪icp备16041494号 © copyright 2020, flexport inc. terms of use privacy policy