australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 04:31 edt | updated 7 hours ago donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad the president's son posted the clip even as the u.s. became the country with the highest number of confirmed cases in the world. by lee moran, huffpost us donald trump jr. shared this “karate kid”-themed meme of his father beating the coronavirus on instagram with the offensive caption: “hahahahaha ‘the kung-flu kid.’” view this post on instagram a post shared by donald trump jr. (@donaldjtrumpjr) on mar 26, 2020 at 5:15am pdt president donald trump’s eldest son posted the clip thursday, even as the u.s. became the country with the highest number of confirmed cases in the world. nationwide, the virus has sickened around 85,000 people and killed at least 1,300. there have been 530,000 cases and 24,000 deaths worldwide. the term “kung flu” gained traction last week after cbs reporter weijia jiang alleged that a white house staffer had used it to describe the coronavirus. meanwhile, the president himself has garnered widespread criticism for repeatedly calling it the “chinese virus,” against the world health organization’s advice to avoid using geographic descriptors to prevent stigmatization. potus has since said he won’t use the term in the future. trump jr. has previously shared strange memes of his father with a man bun, as baby yoda from “the mandalorian” and as a thumbnail on pornhub’s website: related... disaster chief slams trump’s ‘preposterous’ coronavirus claim cnn airs long list of trump’s most troubling coronavirus claims jim carrey hits trump with nsfw coronavirus cartoon suggest a correction lee moran reporter, huffpost more: donald trump politics coronavirus donald trump jr karate kid trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.