u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost politics. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition donald trump fox news sean hannity ivanka trump barack obama george conway navy hospital ship rushing to new york, repairs unfinished, for covid-19 crisis trump is planning a trip to norfolk saturday as the usns comfort puts to sea, giving him a photo op as the hospital situation in new york becomes a crisis. by s.v. date dubious coronavirus experts run amok in pro-trump media fox news and other right-wing media outlets have repeatedly offered a platform for misinformation to back the president's narrative. by nick robins-early trump orders gm to produce ventilators, invoking defense production act the memorandum directed at general motors comes as hospitals say they'll need more ventilators to weather the coronavirus pandemic. by lydia o'connor trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad a fluffy 'game of thrones' star has died trump rejects new york’s plea for ventilators: ‘i don’t believe you need’ that many new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight meanwhile, president donald trump has rejected the state's plea for ventilators. by sebastian murdock coronavirus is a defining test and american government is failing it it's not just trump. our politics are unfit for this calamity. by zach carter newsletter sign up politics huffpost's top politics stories, straight to your inbox. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. even donald trump is slamming gop lawmaker delaying coronavirus bill republicans and democrats are condemning rep. thomas massie for insisting legislators vote in person instead of holding a "voice vote." by david moye 10 of trump's most damaging coronavirus lies amid a crisis that demands trustworthy leadership, the president has instead sowed chaos, confusion and misinformation. by ryan grenoble coronavirus shows why trump's big medicaid idea is dangerous the administration wants states to accept caps on federal medicaid funding. in times like this, that would mean fewer people being able to access medical care. by jeffrey young seth meyers challenges trump to risky game to prove coronavirus conspiracy theory the "late night" host went on a feverish takedown of the president's covid-19 incompetence. by ron dicker democrats’ ad blitz aims to counteract trump’s monopoly on coronavirus response the president's approval rating has ticked up during the crisis, but the eventual results will be immune to spin. by kevin robillard i'm a combat veteran. trump's inability to tell the truth is costing american lives. "i believe it’s every citizen’s responsibility to demand that our president be tactically proficient and set an example of courage, frankness and honesty." by scott w. patton, guest writer a potential treatment for covid-19 leads to hoarding, shortages in europe in the rush to find a treatment for the coronavirus, shortages of chloroquine mean people with various health conditions are missing out on medicine they need. by sasha belenky trump campaign threatens to sue tv stations over ad donald trump’s reelection campaign is threatening to take legal action against tv stations airing an ad critical of the president’s response to the coronavirus crisis. by huffpost video 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue president donald trump said he wants businesses open by easter. medical professionals say otherwise. by sebastian murdock ridley scott rips 'nutcase' trump's coronavirus response the legendary director said there are “very few worthwhile” politicians. by lee moran president donald trump feuds with state leaders over coronavirus response president donald trump attacked michigan’s governor for wanting a disaster declaration for coronavirus. by huffpost video cdc expert sees new york coronavirus crisis as preview as trump aims to ease restrictions new york's mounting toll is a "warning to other areas about what may happen or what may already be starting to happen," said the cdc's anne schuchat. by mary papenfuss npr station stops airing trump coronavirus briefings for 'false information' seattle's kuow said fact-checking the president's falsehoods and exaggeration became a challenge during the live broadcast. by ron dicker joe biden says trump 'hasn't done what's rational to do' the democratic presidential front-runner blasted the president's coronavirus response on a home version of "jimmy kimmel live." by ron dicker jim carrey casts trump in the movie of his nightmares “he has fully become the mayor from jaws,” the actor-artist said of his latest coronavirus-themed cartoon featuring the president. by lee moran newsletter sign up politics huffpost's top politics stories, straight to your inbox. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost politics. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.