authority seo 2.0 blog about tools contact done for you affiliate websites: should you buy or build? an eternal dilemma by andrej ilisin 13 comments last updated on: july 23, 2019 over the past week, we went through the biggest challenges behind building affiliate sites, examples of successful (amazon) affiliate businesses, and a tutorial on how to build one for yourself. building an affiliate site yourself was the longest guide out of the three. there’s a lot that goes into it. for people just starting out, it may have been a little daunting, especially the statement that doing your niche and keyword research wrong could result in months of wasted time working on things that simply won’t move the needle. today, i want to share another option with you – done for you affiliate websites / turnkey websites. you may already know what these are. you may have even purchased one yourself in the past. dfy sites are a specialty of mine. it’s something i’m heavily involved in with my other company, alpha investors. in this post, i want to share what dfy sites are, and some of the advantages of getting a dfy site versus building it yourself. — note: i’ll give you a list of the best done-for-you affiliate site providers at the bottom of this post. — what are turnkey affiliate websites? here’s an example of a (poorly redacted) pre-made website we’re currently working on at ai essentially, turnkey affiliate sites are pre-made sites that you can buy. instead of building a site out from scratch (or buying an already profitable website), doing all the research yourself, and finding profitable keywords yourself, you’re getting a site that has been built for you with all the research done for you. are dfy sites for everybody? no. some people prefer to do everything on their own. experts who have a lot of experience may have their own preferences for how to build out their sites. for beginners, though, it can be a huge advantage to let someone else with a lot of experience building and growing amazon affiliate sites build one out for you. the niche and keyword research phases are critical for any site. experienced affiliate marketers are able to gauge things like how competitive a niche is, what the potential size of the niche is, what the revenue cap of a niche could be (if grown to its maximum size), and what the potential sale price of the site can be if grown properly over a period of time. these are things that come with experience. when you’re a beginner, it can all seem a little daunting and your research may feel like you’re shooting in the dark. with a dfy site, all the research is done for you. there’s no need to guess if your research/planning is correct. getting a behind the scenes look at successful ready made affiliate sites here’s how it looks from the back-end perhaps the biggest advantage of getting a dfy site is that you get something that others don’t get to experience or realize until years down the road. and that is… being able to see what a well-constructed site looks like, and how it operates behind the scenes. when the affiliate site is handed over to you, it’s like getting a template that you can use from there on out for your next sites. you get to see how the site was made, what wordpress theme is used, how it was customized, how the on-page seo has been set up. you get to see what essential wordpress plugins were used, and how they’re set up. for example, configuring seo plugins is probably one of the things that takes the longest time for beginners to set up properly. with a dfy site, you get to just go into the settings yourself and see how it has already been configured. no need to change anything. just make note of what’s been done, and copy it for your future sites. learn perfect site structure and organization in addition to the basic setup, one of the major advantages of getting a dfy site is that it comes set up with perfect site structure and content organization for best seo results. this may not seem important when you’re just starting out and have only a few published pages on your site. but when you have 100+ blog posts, clean navigation and organization is extremely important. this is especially true for affiliate sites. with affiliate sites, you usually have two different types of posts. money pages (read buying guides, best x for x) that are monetized via affiliate deals, and informational content pages (tutorials, how to’s, pillar posts, etc.) that are monetized via display ads. the bulk of your revenue will come from your money pages, so it’s important to structure your site so that these pages are viewed as much as possible. not only that, but the site is built from the ground up with seo in mind. search traffic is the main traffic strategy, so everything that goes into building the site is done to maximize the future seo results. here’s how we do keyword and opportunity research learning what high-quality content looks like, and how to write/format them. next, content. dfy sites come pre-packaged with content. that means, they’re already targeting the initial set of keywords that the expert who built your site deemed the best opportunity for a newer site to target. aside from being able to know what keywords to target first, though, what’s even more important is getting to see how the article was written/structure/formatted. this is something that takes a long time to learn to do right, especially for money pages – things like “best x” type of keywords. you want to create content that provides value and also pitch affiliate links within it. dfy site publishers know how to format these posts properly so that they don’t end up looking like spammy sales pages, and provide value while maximizing conversion rates. being able to go into your site dashboard, open up the post, and see exactly how it was written, how the affiliate links are placed, and how it was formatted is a huge advantage that most people don’t get to see. what this lets you do is just copy the structure and writing style of that content exactly. you can also just outsource the post to writers, giving them the exact template, and tell them that that’s the style you’re looking for. support, sop’s, and processes/systems one of the biggest reasons why people buy dfy sites is the support and systems they get access to after they receive the site. not every provider offers this, but with the ones that do, you’re able to get help, answers to your questions, and make sure you’re headed in the right direction. on top of that, some providers even offer sop’s and access to their processes and systems. basically, these tell you how to operate the site efficiently, making sure you spend time on doing things that actually move the needle. this is critical. far too many people spend weeks or even months working on things that just don’t matter, or is the wrong thing to focus on at that stage of a site’s life. by following guidelines and procedures that have already been tested, you can basically just follow a formula in a way. it saves time getting dfy sites isn’t just for beginners. experts that grow a lot of sites prefer to get dfy sites so that they don’t have to spend a bunch of time researching niches/keywords, and getting the site up and running. they already know how to do all this themselves. it’s just a matter of saving time and working on other, more important things. they simply purchase a dfy site or two and start working on them once they’re wrapped up. or sometimes, they even just let them sit until they’re ready to dive into them. conclusion: are dfy sites for you? hopefully, this post has shed some light on what dfy sites are, and how they can benefit you. like i said earlier, it’s not the right option for everybody. but it can be a huge advantage for some. what are your options? i tested out all these providers because that was necessary in order to provide the best possible service myself. i had to dig into their systems and find the good stuff, the bad stuff, and everything in between in order to create the best possible service for my clients. that said, here a list of the done-for-you affiliate website providers (in no particular order): humanproofdesigns brandbuilders serpseeds leadsfox alpha investors we at alpha investors also offer ready-made amazon affiliate websites that are launched once every 40-ish days. those differ from the custom sites mentioned above because they’re already set up at the time of the sale and you’ll get access to the site you purchase within a couple of hours. i personally prefer custom sites because of the individual approach, but you might not… if you’d like to join the early bird list and be notified before we launch the next batch, simply send a blank e-mail by clicking here. what about you? have you ever purchased a dfy site? how has the experience been for you? if you have any questions about dfy sites, let me know in the comments. i’m in the trenches every day with alpha investors so i can give you a lot of first-hand insight and behind the scenes info about this option for affiliate marketers. facebook twitter pinterest you might also like... google adsense account approval: how to make the adsense team like your website how to effectively plan your blog growth using micro & macro goals how my blog made money in all the wrong ways and sold for 125x monthly revenue 13 comments reply troy may 9, 2019 at 11:39 am i had no idea this kind of service existed outside of flippa. pretty cool though. i’d love to see a case study of someone who took a dfy site and had success with it. reply davo may 9, 2019 at 1:30 pm that is definitely where the value is. it’s great to have everything laid out, but the value is in the pudding, ie the results. a case study of a few clients who have bought dfy and some results they’ve achieved over the course of say 12-24 months would be great. reply andrej may 9, 2019 at 1:54 pm yes, that’s definitely in the works 😉 reply cash tribe may 9, 2019 at 12:40 pm i rather struggle and build my website from scratch that way i can learn a lot of things by experience, it will be a skill especially in the future. reply gregory may 10, 2019 at 12:57 am to be honest i have purchased and sold websites for a long time. the easiest option early on was to buy on flippa. for projects i have ready investment for, i prefer buying them off others. helps save a lot of time as a busy professional. reply andrej may 10, 2019 at 1:23 am hi gregory. yes, i do agree that the best option (for me personally, at least) is to buy an established site, but that does require some working capital and knowledge. in the end, it depends on your personal preferences. some people like to build, some like to grow, and some are just looking for the next ‘shiny thing’. reply lisa mina memea may 12, 2019 at 1:08 am learning about websites is building one. it has been the best experience i have done. the next step is learning about seos. reply josh may 15, 2019 at 12:12 am hey andrej – congrats on the acquisition! i am enjoying your content. with sites built on expired domains, would you redirect all the old pages that had links to the home page or recreate the page that had the link? thanks! reply andrej may 15, 2019 at 2:52 am thanks, josh! no. i’d re-create those urls (with incoming links) and do a page to page redirect. that’s my general rule, but there are always exceptions (quality of the link, topical relevancy, etc.). if you redirect everything to the homepage that’s usually treated as a soft 404 and the link juice will probably be lost. reply al may 19, 2019 at 8:13 am hey andrej! i didn’t think i’d be enjoying your content as much as chris’s previous posts! congrats on the acquisition! 🙂 i quite like the featured image graphic, how did you design it? reply andrej may 19, 2019 at 12:27 pm thanks, al. it was a random find. reply petar may 27, 2019 at 10:02 am hey andrej, great post! i enjoyed your last few posts, checked your other site and eventually realized we’re coming from the same small country! let me know if you’ll be visiting zagreb anytime soon, would be great to exchange some ideas over a beer! 🙂 keep up the great work! reply andrej ilisin may 27, 2019 at 11:20 am hi petar, thanks for hitting the reply section. will do that, thanks. leave a reply cancel reply zero to 100k with seo a free 5-part seo email course that will show you step-by-step how to grow traffic from zero to 100,000 visitors per month (with search). sign up for free zero to 100k with seo a free 5-part seo email course that will show you step-by-step how to grow traffic from zero to 100,000 visitors per month (with search). sign me up © 2019 rankxl. all rights reserved. | contact | twitter zero to 100k with seo free 5-part mini-course. enter your email to get lesson #1. email* send me the first lesson enter your email below to get the zero to 100k mini-course email* send me the first lesson