book posts daily style daily reads daily chuck mastheads daily photo nubbin podcast archives shop community about press contact faq the smell of my desperation has become a stench book posts podcast shop about book posts podcast shop about the smell of my desperation has become a stench 163 come on eileen daily my covid-19 experience (with video) the first thing i’m going to say is that what i am going to describe to you today has nothing to do with any of the news i talked about or teased yesterday while talking to those of you who joined me for quarantine book… by heather b. armstrong march 19, 2020 “but i know how rapunzel felt in the tower, when she wanted to feel the rain shower…” let me start by saying that this is going to be all over the place, a fair warning to those who like to diagnose me. you’re going to have a field day with this one. a party without your pants on. i’ve got four kids… by heather b. armstrong march 16, 2020 “this goes beyond me, beyond you” hi. hello. let’s begin with: i am one of very few people you probably know who at my age have not lost someone very close to me. i have never lost a friend or a relative unexpectedly. i have been spared that trauma for 44… by heather b. armstrong february 24, 2020 read all posts > // featured reads about the author hi. i’m heather b. armstrong. when i first wrote a bio for this site i called myself a sahm—a stay at home mom, or, shit ass ho motherfucker. more than a decade later i am now what’s referred to as a ftswm—a full-time single working mom, or, fuck that shit where’s marijuana. this used to be called mommy blogging. but then they started calling it influencer marketing: hashtag ad, hashtag sponsored, hashtag you know you want me to slap your product on my kid and exploit her for millions and millions of dollars. that’s how this shit works. now? well… sit back, buckle up, and enjoy the ride. dooce is back. and she’s talking about herself in the third person, so you know you better have a barf bag at the ready. // join the mailing list email* this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. // join the mailing list email* follow a note (pun intended) and very important info foll one, yes. there is a video of yesterday’s call. to join the video meeting, click this link: https: popular this week my covid-19 experience (with video) “but i know how rapunzel felt in the tower, when she wanted to feel the rain shower…” “this goes beyond me, beyond you” a winged victory for the sullen pics no sheep will ever go missing on this street read more // manic rambling spiral podcast you can also listen at: manicramblings.com 163 come on eileen listen now 162 mrs turns 4 listen now 161 in memory of coco listen now 160 out with the old listen now 159 change is afoot listen now shibari mini halo $27.95 anker usb-c 60w charger $54.99 luxe bidet neo 120 $59.95 soviet space graphics: cosmic visions from the ussr $39.33 about press faq contact terms of service privacy policy site by cooperhouse latest pin latest instagram a note (pun intended) and very important info foll copyright © hba media, inc. all rights reserved. dooce® is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com, and is also a rewardstyle, shopsense, and stitch fix affiliate.