book posts daily style daily reads daily chuck mastheads daily photo nubbin podcast archives shop community about press contact faq the smell of my desperation has become a stench book posts podcast shop about book posts podcast shop about the smell of my desperation has become a stench privacy policy armstrong media, llc websites, including dooce.com, and others (“dooce”) are governed by the following privacy policy. introduction dooce respects your privacy and is committed to protecting it. this privacy policy is intended to inform you of our privacy policy and of the choices you can make about the way your information is collected online and how that information is utilized by us. certain pages on our website have been structured so that you can access the dooce website without identifying yourself or revealing any personal information. however, should you wish to make full use of the dooce website you will be required to register and provide us with personal information and accordingly we have made this notice readily available on our home page and at the bottom of every page that collects personal information. applicability this privacy policy applies to the dooce websites only. this statement is not applicable to other related websites not specifically included. the dooce websites may contain links to or from other sites (“linked sites”), including sites maintained by dooce but which are not governed by this privacy policy. accordingly, dooce is in no way responsible for the content or the privacy and security policies employed by linked sites. types of information collected when you register on the dooce.com website we need to collect certain information about you in order to provide you with the services you have requested. this information may include, but is not limited to: name email address other biographic information you choose to share, such as twitter handle, flickr handle or linking your facebook account with your dooce account. once you choose to register with dooce and provide us with personal information, it will be used for the purposes of providing you with the requested service. we respect your privacy and undertake not to sell, rent or lease your personal information to others. certain non-personal information may be collected while you are using the website. this will comprise of data about usage and service operation that is not associated with a specific personal identity. dooce may collect and use this non-personal information to evaluate how the dooce websites are being used. most non-personal data is collected via cookies or other analysis technologies. the dooce website pages use anonymous cookies and other technologies for data analysis and potential personalization of the website and services offered. these technologies may vary, but in many cases may involve a small file stored locally on the computer used to access the dooce websites, and may be used to store and collect information relating to your viewing and use of the websites. information collected through cookies is used to create a profile of our users. a profile is stored information we keep on individual users that details their preferences, their use and request history and behavioral activity, and can minimize the need for you to re-enter information. most cookies expire after a defined period of time, or you can delete your cookie file at any time. most web browser software is initially set up to accept cookies. you can reset your web browser software to refuse cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. however, some parts of our site will not function properly or may be considerably slower if you refuse cookies. for example, without cookies, you will not be able to set personalized preferences, and/or may have difficulty completing transactions. dooce may collect your computer’s ip (internet protocol) address and domain name address, the identity of your internet service or access provider, the type of web browsing software you use, your computers operating system, the url of the web page from which you came to visit our site and the language you selected for your web browsing software (collectively referred to herein as clickstream data). we use these technologies to identify our users, to help diagnose problems with our server, and to administer the dooce websites and the services offered thereon. dooce needs and uses your personal information to provide you with the services you request and to help us better understand your needs and interests in the future. specifically, dooce uses your information to help you complete and process the transactions you have requested. sensitive personal information if collected will only be used if you choose to allow us to do this in terms of your personal preferences options and will be shared only with your express permission. personal data given to dooce may be transferred across state and country borders for the purposes of data consolidation, storage and simplified customer information management. how dooce will share your information and with whom? dooce will not share your personal information with third parties except in responding to your requests for products or services. your permission will be requested when you submit your information. dooce and partners, who may provide you with the services requested through the dooce websites, are required to keep confidential the information received on behalf of dooce and may not use it for any purpose other than to carry out the services they are performing for your experience on dooce. dooce will not share personal information with any other third parties without your permission, unless required by law enforcement action, subpoena, or local law. the dooce or its other websites could merge with or be acquired by another business entity or organization. in that event dooce will make every reasonable effort to notify you in the event we share with the merging or acquiring entity some or all of your personal information. however, you are requested to continually check this privacy policy for any updates or changes. privacy preferences dooce will not use your personal information for a different purpose than the one stated when you provided your data. examples of unrelated uses include sending communications about updated information, new services and marketing messages. you can, however, choose to receive these types of non-subscription communications by ticking the box when you register. data access, accuracy, amendments, retention and opting out dooce will try to keep your personal information accurate. we will provide you with access to your information, including making reasonable efforts to provide you with online access and the opportunity to change your information, if possible. to protect your privacy and security, when doing so we will also take reasonable steps to verify your identity, such as a password and user id, before granting access to your data. upon request, dooce will: correct personal information that you state is incorrect; or permit you to opt out of further contact (excepting notification of major changes to the service), either on the original site of registration or at any time subsequently, while still allowing basic access to the site; remove you and your personal information provided electronically from our database, thereby canceling your registration. to request a correction or cancellation, send an e-mail to the address provided to you at registration for this purpose. security dooce undertakes to take all reasonable measures to protect the information you provide us. these measures include, but are not limited to preventing unauthorized access or disclosure, maintaining data accuracy, and ensuring the appropriate use of the information. dooce has in place appropriate physical and managerial procedures to safeguard the information we collect. changes to this statement please note that these guidelines are subject to change at any time. any such changes will be posted on this page. you are encouraged to review this privacy policy at the inception of each session. acceptance of policy by using the dooce websites, or otherwise providing your personal information to armstrong media, llc, you signify your acceptance of our privacy policy. if you do not agree to this policy, please do not use the websites or provide any personal information to armstrong media, llc. shibari mini halo $27.95 anker usb-c 60w charger $54.99 luxe bidet neo 120 $59.95 soviet space graphics: cosmic visions from the ussr $39.33 about press faq contact terms of service privacy policy site by cooperhouse latest pin latest instagram a note (pun intended) and very important info foll copyright © hba media, inc. all rights reserved. dooce® is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com, and is also a rewardstyle, shopsense, and stitch fix affiliate.