book posts daily style daily reads daily chuck mastheads daily photo nubbin podcast archives shop community about press contact faq the smell of my desperation has become a stench book posts podcast shop about book posts podcast shop about the smell of my desperation has become a stench daily style using summer as an inspiration board by heather b. armstrong october 2, 2014 i was sitting at my desk yesterday when i suddenly realized i had not moved or stood up for almost three hours. apparently sitting is the new “most horrible thing you can do to your body,” worse even than driving while listening to imagine dragons. so i got up and walked a few laps around my living room and kitchen. on about lap three i noticed an empty planter sitting in a corner that i bought three years ago from west elm, one i thought i’d put to use immediately but, um, life sort of got in the way if you know what i’m saying. maybe walking is good for you because i got the idea to visit a local garden store called paradise palm this weekend and grab something to fill it, plus a few others to fill several other corners of the room. it’s quickly getting colder outside, and maybe what i need is to bring more of the outside in to help me fight my grumpiness when i wake up and the ground is covered with snow. maybe i need more texture, more wood, perhaps a trip to los angeles where i accidentally get stranded. 1. edison string lights $39.95 2. snail candleholder $4.97 3. safavieh castle garden stool $79.76 4. the drunken botanist: the plants that create the world’s great drinks $15.32 5. yellow leaf lanta hammock $149 6. 6 foot fiddle leaf fig tree $119 7. makers kit home herb garden $26 8. woodsy candleholder centerpiece $49.95 9. fly-by bird feeder $14.99 10. garden greetings tape $10 11. paper birch straws $8.95 12. matthew taylor wilson print $24 13. kiwi bird figurine $29.95 daily style email articletwitterfacebookpin it accessories,amazon,cb2,crate and barrel,garden,nordstrom,planter,west elm prev october 2014 next investing in her future no comments sorry, the comment form is closed at this time. heather b. armstrong hi. i’m heather b. armstrong, and this used to be called mommy blogging. but then they started calling it influencer marketing: hashtag ad, hashtag sponsored, hashtag you know you want me to slap your product on my kid and exploit her for millions and millions of dollars. that’s how this shit works. now? well… sit back, buckle up, and enjoy the ride. read more savesave related // small changes feeling fall “much as water can be taken for granted by a fish” maximum effect // related reads allergic to costume season summer is happily not yet over tis the season is your man feeling artistic? shibari mini halo $27.95 anker usb-c 60w charger $54.99 luxe bidet neo 120 $59.95 soviet space graphics: cosmic visions from the ussr $39.33 about press faq contact terms of service privacy policy site by cooperhouse latest pin latest instagram a note (pun intended) and very important info foll copyright © hba media, inc. all rights reserved. dooce® is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com, and is also a rewardstyle, shopsense, and stitch fix affiliate.