book posts daily style daily reads daily chuck mastheads daily photo nubbin podcast archives shop community about press contact faq the smell of my desperation has become a stench book posts podcast shop about book posts podcast shop about the smell of my desperation has become a stench for publicity inquiries contact: jill siegel simon & schuster jill.siegel at simonandschuster.com to arrange a speaking engagement: christie hinrichs authors unbound agency christie at authorsunbound.com (541) 797-2217 you can visit my speaking profile here. press people magazine writer vividly describes ‘dying’ 10 times in desperate experimental treatment to end her depression new york post mommy blogger heather armstrong details how she ‘died 10 times’ to cure depression salt lake tribune utah’s celebrity blogger ‘dooce’ went from superstar influencer to a hospital gurney. her new book explains the experiment that tackled her depression. yahoo! news ‘mom blogger’s’ book describes journey back from ‘death’ — and new hope for treating depression radiowest we’re talking to pioneering blogger heather armstrong about the ten times her doctors made her brain dead. it was a clinical trial to flatline the brain as a treatment for severe depression. wisconsin public radio the ‘dooce’ blogger on the lengths she went to cure depression the valedictorian of being dead available now: simon & schuster | amazon | barnes & noble | books a million | indie bound | googleplay | ibooks | amazon kindle | nook audiobook available here: praise for the book: kirkus: “in a narrative that is part cathartic confessional, part apology to those who stood by her through years of anguish and recovery, and part accessible explanation of a highly scientific procedure, the author takes readers on a room-by-room tour of events leading to the treatment that finally helped her overcome her depression.” (link) forbes: armstrong’s book offers hope not just because she willingly participated in an extreme experimental therapy and it worked, but because her story of wrestling with intense depression is many peoples’ story. she’s written a worthwhile contribution to better understanding and confronting a disorder that’s affecting more people every year. (link) bookpage: she chronicles her journey in fascinating detail, from her eerie experiences after emerging from “the abyss” and also includes her parents’ and siblings’ perspectives, as well as the profound experience of the treatment itself. as on her blog, her writing feels off the cuff, by turns moving and irreverent, always conveying gratitude for the help she received from her family and the medical team. (link) personalized and signed bookplates for pre-orders email me a copy (screenshot or photo) of the receipt for your pre-order—whether it is the hardback or kindle or audiobook—plus your mailing address and what you’d like me to write on the bookplate. email dooce at dooce dot com with the subject line tvobd pre-order. fine print: in us only, while supplies last, allow 4 weeks for delivery. yes, canadians. i know. i’m so sorry. very sorry. so sorry. they told me they can’t ship internationally even though i told them you’d be upset about this. politely upset, but rightfully so. let me brainstorm and see if there is something special i can do for you. sign up to receive all the news about my upcoming book leave this field empty if you're human: perks include a contest about what city i should add to my book tour, subscriber-only access to “deleted scenes”, and an invite to a very special q&a with my mother who watched me die ten times. i’ll be running my own giveaways as well, and you’ll be invited to add to collaborative playlists of songs you need to cry to and songs you need to help you stop crying. and much, much more to come. stay tuned. confirmed book tour dates and events barnes & noble/nyc (tribeca) april 23, 2019 indigo bay & bloor/toronto, on, canada april 25 2019 the kings english/salt lake city april 27, 2019 – in conversation with the lead anesthesiologist of my treatment, dr. scott tadler book people/austin april 30, 2019 tattered cover/denver (colfax) may 2, 2019 third place books/seattle (lake forest park) may 6, 2019 powell’s/portland (cedar hills crossing) may 9, 2019 the kennedy forum’s annual convention/chicago june11, 2019 early reviews: “breathtakingly honest, this story is a bridge to empathy and a bright beacon of hope. i’m telling everyone to read this book.” –lisa genova, new york times bestselling author of still alice “in the valedictorian of being dead, heather armstrong carries the reader along her fascinating journey out of the abyss of depression, intricately weaving the threads of family, suffering, and scientific breakthrough. this touching memoir, full of scenes both silly and profound, manages to shock, educate, and inspire.” –alex korb phd, author of the upward spiral: using neuroscience to reverse the course of depression, one small change at a time. “i was moved by this real, raw, hilarious and deeply personal story of one woman’s epic battle with major depression and found myself cheering for heather and her entire family by the end of book.” –wendy a. suzuki, phd, author of healthy brain, happy life “a story of courage, hope, love, and science overcoming the despair of depression. it is a must read for mental health professionals and those touched by depression—their own or that of a loved one.” –barbara arrowsmith-young, internationally bestselling author of the woman who changed her brain “i read the valedictorian of being dead cover to cover in four hours. i cried and cried; it was so beautiful and honest and scary and real. i think this book will be so helpful for a lot of people living with depression, especially parents.” –grace bonney, creator of design*sponge and new york times bestselling author of in the company of women “as the lead anesthesiologist on the study, it was emotional for me to hear of heather’s experience. she helped me to gain some understanding about what folks go through when they are sick, what the experience of treatment was for her and her loved ones, and what the treatment now means to her.” –scott c. tadler, md, university of utah school of medicine shibari mini halo $27.95 anker usb-c 60w charger $54.99 luxe bidet neo 120 $59.95 soviet space graphics: cosmic visions from the ussr $39.33 about press faq contact terms of service privacy policy site by cooperhouse latest pin latest instagram a note (pun intended) and very important info foll copyright © hba media, inc. all rights reserved. dooce® is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com, and is also a rewardstyle, shopsense, and stitch fix affiliate.