book posts daily style daily reads daily chuck mastheads daily photo nubbin podcast archives shop community about press contact faq the smell of my desperation has become a stench book posts podcast shop about book posts podcast shop about the smell of my desperation has become a stench recent posts my covid-19 experience (with video) the first thing i’m going to say is that what i am going to describe to you today has nothing to do with any of the news i talked about or teased yesterday while talking to those of you who joined me for quarantine book… by heather b. armstrong march 19, 2020 “but i know how rapunzel felt in the tower, when she wanted to feel the rain shower…” let me start by saying that this is going to be all over the place, a fair warning to those who like to diagnose me. you’re going to have a field day with this one. a party without your pants on. i’ve got four kids… by heather b. armstrong march 16, 2020 “this goes beyond me, beyond you” hi. hello. let’s begin with: i am one of very few people you probably know who at my age have not lost someone very close to me. i have never lost a friend or a relative unexpectedly. i have been spared that trauma for 44… by heather b. armstrong february 24, 2020 a winged victory for the sullen i have to remind everyone before i say anything about this thing that is happening to me all caps that i left the lds church and all religion period because a linguistics professor at byu made me deconstruct an essay about ebonics. if you don’t… by heather b. armstrong february 20, 2020 “he. is. married. still. and it’s not to you.” valentine’s edition! now, who would publish a valentine’s gift guide not only this close to (squints eyes very narrowly, ten minutes shy of it?) valentine’s day but also with: parents can we please not raise another brett kavanaugh. that would be me. hi, have you met me?… by heather b. armstrong february 13, 2020 “so many things i want to say to you, so many sleepless nights i prayed for you” april 16, 2019. i drove leta to school because i had a very early appointment near that part of town. giving her a break from having to get up so early for the bus is a luxury in life i can gift to her. she’d… by heather b. armstrong february 3, 2020 “who is left, that writes these days? you and me, we’ll be different.” what follows was dictated me to on the evening of january 19, 2020, as i sat on a plane flying home to utah from new york city. i opened a blank text document on pete’s computer and had no idea what was going to happen…. by heather b. armstrong january 21, 2020 i wish you could have held on for another day, part two of two i thought i was going to be able to write the rest of this story the way i wanted to, the way i had intended and coco would have wanted. although, now? i don’t know. things have suddenly changed in the most profoundly sad and… by heather b. armstrong january 15, 2020 i wish you could have held on for another day, part one of two on january 10, 2018 i walked back into a concert venue from the lobby where i was waiting for a ride. the concert was not over, but my friend wanted to leave. i walked back in because i needed to give him something, i just… by heather b. armstrong january 13, 2020 i said i was going to burn shit down today, and i am nothing if not dependable. wink. happy new year, my lovely, fellow loonies. i use that term affectionately, so it means you are beloved to me. you and you and you. i have so much to tell you. so much has happened, so many good things. a few sad and formidable… by heather b. armstrong january 7, 2020 i never thought i would try to crowdsource a gratitude journal, but here we are bonjour, kind people! that means you, and you, and you, and you! i am not oprah and do not have cars to give away, but if you were here i’d pour you some dry white wine (my drink of choice now that bourbon gives me… by heather b. armstrong december 9, 2019 you need ideas for gifts? i might have a few hundred. i have not attempted a gift guide since marlo pronounced “breakfast” as “bref-disk” and ever since someone corrected her my heart has been trying to reassemble itself. maybe that’s contributing to my gut issues, although i think my gut issues have a lot more to… by heather b. armstrong november 29, 2019 1 2 3 4 5 6 shibari mini halo $27.95 anker usb-c 60w charger $54.99 luxe bidet neo 120 $59.95 soviet space graphics: cosmic visions from the ussr $39.33 about press faq contact terms of service privacy policy site by cooperhouse latest pin latest instagram a note (pun intended) and very important info foll copyright © hba media, inc. all rights reserved. dooce® is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com, and is also a rewardstyle, shopsense, and stitch fix affiliate.