book posts daily style daily reads daily chuck mastheads daily photo nubbin podcast archives shop community about press contact faq the smell of my desperation has become a stench book posts podcast shop about book posts podcast shop about the smell of my desperation has become a stench podcast come on eileen by ryan kummer march 18, 2020 we didn’t plan for this to be about covid-19, but most of the world didn’t plan for anything that’s happening right now. as everyone scrambles to understand social distancing and isolation while grappling with the unknown, heather and john talk about school closure and the state of the country before spiraling into a more serious conversation related to teenage emotions. https://media.acast.com/manicramblingspiral/163-comeoneileen/media.mp3 email articletwitterfacebookpin it prev mrs turns 4 no comments sorry, the comment form is closed at this time. heather b. armstrong hi. i’m heather b. armstrong, and this used to be called mommy blogging. but then they started calling it influencer marketing: hashtag ad, hashtag sponsored, hashtag you know you want me to slap your product on my kid and exploit her for millions and millions of dollars. that’s how this shit works. now? well… sit back, buckle up, and enjoy the ride. read more savesave related // come on eileen mrs turns 4 in memory of coco out with the old // related reads come on eileen mrs turns 4 in memory of coco out with the old shibari mini halo $27.95 anker usb-c 60w charger $54.99 luxe bidet neo 120 $59.95 soviet space graphics: cosmic visions from the ussr $39.33 about press faq contact terms of service privacy policy site by cooperhouse latest pin latest instagram a note (pun intended) and very important info foll copyright © hba media, inc. all rights reserved. dooce® is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com, and is also a rewardstyle, shopsense, and stitch fix affiliate.