skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register notifications skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress get wordpress use the software that powers over 35% of the web. hooray! you’re on your way with the latest wordpress! for help getting started, check out our documentation and support forums. meet other wordpress enthusiasts and share your knowledge at a wordpress meetup group or a wordcamp. to support education about wordpress and open source software, please donate to the wordpress foundation. priceless, and also free download wordpress and use it on your site. download wordpress 5.3.2 download .tar.gz installation with our famous 5-minute installation, setting up wordpress for the first time is simple. we’ve created a handy guide to see you through the installation process. release notifications want to get notified about wordpress releases? join the wordpress announcements mailing list and we will send a friendly message whenever there is a new stable release. requirements we recommend servers running version 7.3 or greater of php and mysql version 5.6 or mariadb version 10.1 or greater. we also recommend either apache or nginx as the most robust options for running wordpress, but neither is required. more resources all releases beta/nightly versions download counter source code wordpress hosting choosing a hosting provider can be difficult, so we have selected a few of the best to get you started. bluehost has turned passion for wordpress into the fastest, simplest managed platform for your websites. recommended by wordpress since 2005, each wordpress package offers a free domain, free ssl, and 24/7 support. visit bluehost privacy-focused and dedicated to the open web, dreamhost provides some of the most powerful and secure managed wordpress environments in the world. visit dreamhost see all of our recommended hosts inspiration strikes anywhere, anytime create or update content on the go with our mobile apps. learn more about our mobile apps about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.