home | forum | articles | recipes | gallery | about us | sign in welcome to downsizer welcome to downsizer, a repository for some stuff that we know about things. there's quite an archive of articles and you may also like to join the forum if you've got specific questions about the sort of stuff that we cover. if you do use anything that you find on here elsewhere then a link or credit would be appreciated. community spotlight on downsizer.net member pilsbury. find out how downsizer has touched the life of our members. each month will bring a fresh interview with members new and old. the downsizer forum sign up here to become involved in our free, informative and welcoming forum. from community matters to growing and making your own. you will find a hive of information and encouragement. what's on why not celebrate the autumn's harvest at one of our own member's cider and juicing events? alternatively, if music is your dish you could pop along to a local gig try blowzabella for example. you can find many interesting reviews of all manner of things on our reviews and what's on page. marketplace want to keep it ethical? have a look at our downsizer traders section and forum based trading pages to find ethical, hand made and locally produced, food, gifts and other essentials. know how using up leftover scraps. little knitted pumpkins give your crafting a seasonal halloween edge with sally_in_wales little knitted pumpkins fairycake bath fizzies add some fizz to your stocking with sally_in_wales delicious fairycake bath fizzies. sewing for knitting keep all your knitting essentials organised and tidy with cathryn's knitting needle roll. you will never need to search the back of the sofa for that errant needle again. a darn too far: quilts made from old jeans don't throw those care worn jeans away. give them a new lease of life with cathryn's patchwork quilt. how to rebatch soap take a bland soap and experiment with texture, scent and colour with this easy to follow method from sally_in_wales. recipes peach jam preserve the taste of summer for the winter months with green rosie's scrumptious peach jam cooking a pig's head no need to be daunted by using up everything but the oink with this great article by colour it green: cooking a pig's head winter spiced jelly use up the autumn cooking apple windfall with gardening-girl's delicious winter spiced jelly mixed rice with chickpeas, raisins & herbs give simple rice the wow factor with jamanda's mixed rice with chickpeas, raisins & herbs what to do with an egg glut what to do with an egg glut emergency. solve your conundrum with nell merionwen's article. 2012 downsizer: for a sustainable & ethical future