watch live: trump speaks at coronavirus task force briefing election 2020 tv politics trump entertainment sports opinion newsletter store election 2020 tv politics trump entertainment sports opinion newsletter store trump hits governors criticizing federal gov’t coronavirus response: ‘if they don’t treat you right, i don’t call’ trump delivers rare, glowing praise for rachel maddow, shares coronavirus clip from her show chris wallace shoots down ed henry’s comparison of pelosi to gop rep. trying to force in-person coronavirus relief vote democratic rep. haley stevens absolutely explodes on house floor, refuses to yield ahead of coronavirus vote trump shares john kerry’s tweet calling rep. massie an ‘a**hole’: never knew he had ‘good sense of humor’ dr. fauci throws cold water on trump’s target of easter to reopen the country: ‘an aspirational projection to give people some hope’ by joe depaolomar 26th, 2020, 9:00 pm dr. anthony fauci, a member of the white house coronavirus task force, threw some cold water on president donald trump’s target date of easter, which falls on april 12, to relax social distancing guidelines and reopen the country. appearing on a cnn virtual town hall with anderson cooper and dr. sanjay gupta, fauci was confronted by gupta on why trump suggested that restrictions could soon be eased when the number of coronavirus cases per day continues to dramatically escalate across the country. “why raise the idea that a pullback is even close?” gupta asked. “i think what the president was trying to do, he was making an aspirational projection to give people some hope,” fauci replied. still, fauci claimed that trump is receptive to guidance from public health experts like himself and dr. deborah birx — another member of the task force. “he’s listening to us when we say we’ve really got to reevaluate it in real-time,” fauci said. “and any decision we make has to be based on the data.” watch above, via cnn. have a tip we should know? [email protected] filed under: anthony faucicnncoronavirusdonald trump follow mediaite: « previous postnext post » « previous postnext post » joe depaolo - senior editor joe depaolo is a senior editor at mediaite. email him here: [email protected] follow him on twitter: @joe_depaolo more stories by joe depaolo tips have a tip or story idea? email us. or to keep it anonymous, click here. most popular fox’s martha maccallum calls out kellyanne conway after she blasts nyc mayor for stalled coronavirus response: what about trump’s? trump ripped over ‘congratulations america!’ tweet amid coronavirus pandemic: ‘people are dying’ trump goes off on the press at coronavirus briefing: ‘people in your profession write fake news, you do, she does…’ steven mnuchin calls record unemployment claims ‘not relevant’ on cnbc ‘oh my god, the universe is collapsing!’: bernie snark bombs gop sens. holding up stimulus over extra unemployment benefits you may also like: trump hits governors criticizing federal gov’t coronavirus response: ‘if they don’t treat you right, i don’t call’ by josh feldmanmar 27th, 2020, 6:56 pm fox’s gutfeld rips hillary coronavirus tweet: ‘i’d say she should rot in hell but i think she’s already there’ by zachary petrizzomar 27th, 2020, 6:34 pm good news: u.s. animal shelters report rise in applications amid coronavirus outbreak by leia idlibymar 27th, 2020, 6:23 pm watch live: trump and coronavirus task force hold press briefing by zachary petrizzomar 27th, 2020, 5:19 pm breaking: trish regan out at fox business network by josh feldmanmar 27th, 2020, 5:02 pm trump invokes defense production act to require gm to produce ventilators by josh feldmanmar 27th, 2020, 4:34 pm © 2020 mediaite, llc about us advertise newsletter privacy user agreement ethics & diversity policy contact rss dan abrams, founder