skip to content 3× annual “best of” apple podcasts 400+ million episodes downloaded 8,000+ 5-star reviews the blog of author tim ferriss tim ferriss's 4-hour workweek and lifestyle design blog. tim is an author of 5 #1 nyt/wsj bestsellers, investor (fb, uber, twitter, 50+ more), and host of the tim ferriss show podcast (400m+ downloads) latest episode: dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more (#417) https://rss.art19.com/episodes/206cd7fc-e344-4897-b31b-d038e19f5330.mp3download menu home podcast all episodes and guests sponsorship and advertising newsletter books tim’s books the tim ferriss book club about tim ferriss bio causes media kit and samples terms of service disclosure – the full monty privacy policy contact media kit and samples contact corrections? please fill out this form. jobs search for: search posted on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 by tim ferriss dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more (#417) 3 comments topics: categoriesthe tim ferriss show share this: facebook twitter email reddit print join 1.5m+ subscribers and receive exclusive tools, tips, and resources sent directly by tim: type your email address yes, sign me up for tim's free email newsletter. i agree to the privacy policy. get access “all of us, regardless of what stage of life we’re at, we’ve got three basic needs: we all want to know that we matter, we want to be seen for who we are, and we want to know that we’re loved.” — dr. vivek murthy dr. vivek h. murthy (@vivek_murthy, vivekmurthy.com) served as the 19th surgeon general of the united states between 2014 and 2017. as the vice admiral of the us public health service commissioned corps, he commanded a uniformed service of 6,600 public health officers globally. during his tenure, dr. murthy launched the turn the tide campaign, catalyzing a movement among health professionals to address the nation’s opioid crisis. he also issued the first surgeon general’s report on alcohol, drugs, and health, calling for expanded access to prevention and treatment and for addiction to be recognized as a chronic illness, not a character flaw. in 2017, dr. murthy focused his attention on chronic stress and loneliness as prevalent problems that have profound implications for health, productivity, and happiness. he has co-founded a number of organizations: visions, an hiv/aids education program in india; swasthya, a community health partnership in rural india training women as health providers and educators; software company trialnetworks; and the grassroots physicians organization doctors for america. since leaving government service, dr. murthy has continued to focus on loneliness and social connection. his book together: the healing power of human connection in a sometimes lonely world will be published this spring by harper collins. please enjoy! listen to the episode on apple podcasts, spotify, overcast, stitcher, castbox, google podcasts, or on your favorite podcast platform. this podcast is brought to you by nutribullet and trello. more on both below. listen onapple podcasts listen onspotify listen onovercast #417: dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more https://rss.art19.com/episodes/206cd7fc-e344-4897-b31b-d038e19f5330.mp3download this episode is brought to you by nutribullet. nutribullet is the affordable, easy-to-use, easy-to-clean blender that was first recommended to me by entrepreneur noah kagan when i interviewed him for the podcast. its signature blending process transforms high-fiber veggies, nuts, seeds, and fruits into silky, nutrient-dense smoothies (or protein shakes, savory soups, and dips) that are easy to digest and absorb. now, the engineers at nutribullet have created an incredibly convenient upgrade named the nutribullet blender combo. this device is their most versatile yet, allowing you to effortlessly switch between single-serve and full-size blending—everything you know and love about the classic device, plus all the performance and capacity you expect from a full-size blender. don’t settle for blenders that leave your smoothies filled with chunks. get the nutribullet blender combo and introduce your veggies and fruits to 1,200 watts. it easily gets the job done. and for you, my dear listeners, nutribullet is offering 20% off of all products on its website. to get your 20% off, just go to nutribullet.com/tim! this episode is also brought to you by trello. during tough times like these, one thing that brings us all together is our common humanity. another is technology. now, more than ever, teams must come together and work together virtually to handle challenges, opportunities, and everything in between. trello, part of atlassian’s collaborative suite, is an app with an easy-to-understand visual format and tons of features that make working with your team more functional and more fun. teams of all shapes and sizes—and companies like google, fender, and even costco—use trello to collaborate and get work done. it’s one of the few tools that has made the cut with my team. with trello, you can work with your team wherever you are, whether it’s at home or in an office. and no matter what device you’re using—computer, tablet, or phone—trello syncs across all of them so you can stay up to date on all the things your team cares about. keep your workflow going from wherever you are with trello. try trello for free and learn more at trello.com/tfs! what was your favorite quote or lesson from this episode? please let me know in the comments. scroll below for links and show notes… want to hear an episode with someone else who knows a thing or two about loneliness? — listen to my recent conversation with adam grant, in which we discussed challenge networks, failure resumes, inbox infinity, blind spots vs. bright spots, and much more. (stream below or right-click here to download): #399: adam grant — the man who does everything https://rss.art19.com/episodes/3a024b72-91de-4662-9f21-f98671be23ed.mp3download selected links from the episode connect with dr. vivek h. murthy: website | twitter | facebook | instagram together: the healing power of human connection in a sometimes lonely world by dr. vivek h. murthy doctors for america coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19), cdc the tail end by tim urban, wait but why office of the surgeon general (osg), hhs centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) food and drug administration (fda) national institutes of health (nih) department of health and human services (hhs) bureau of prisons (bop) national park service department of the interior september 11 attacks: facts, background, and impact, history the obama administration’s response to ebola, the white house the hope multipliers: the us public health service in monrovia, public health reports nyc preparing javits center for sharp increase in covid-19 cases, nbc zika virus, cdc andrew cuomo should follow the path of winston churchill, not rudy giuliani by john philp, cnn opinion south korea’s coronavirus response is the opposite of china and italy — and it’s working, this week in asia, scmp research can california keep 9 million people at home? the new york times pearl harbor: attack, casualties, and facts, history coronavirus: how emotional contagion exacts a toll with sigal barsade, knowledge@wharton connecting at work by vivek murthy, harvard business review the more you energize your coworkers, the better everyone performs by wayne baker, harvard business review givitas why we need best friends at work, gallup workplace ucla loneliness scale (version 3) vivek murthy: how to solve the work loneliness epidemic by dan schawbel, forbes what is the us opioid epidemic? hhs.gov this former surgeon general says there’s a ‘loneliness epidemic’ and work is partly to blame, the washington post show notes how vivek trains people to pronounce his name. did vivek write a book on loneliness purely to address a widescale public health issue, or was it prompted by something more personal? how has loneliness played out in vivek’s adult life? as an internal medicine specialist who wasn’t formally trained to help his patients cope with loneliness, vivek encountered it often, nonetheless. what did he do to comfort these patients? how does vivek relate to mortality? what does the job of surgeon general entail, and how did vivek find his way to the office? who answers to the office, and where might they be found? after battling the ebola virus during the obama administration, what are the similarities and differences vivek has observed about our current covid-19 crisis? what are we getting right, and what are we getting wrong? if vivek were the benevolent dictator of the united states at this point in time, how would he direct his team for maximum effect against covid-19, and what three principles would guide him? what interventions — whether statewide or nationwide — would he consider implementing? is the united states too culturally different and too politically divided to follow the stricter virus containment measures of countries like china and south korea? how can we agree on a course of decisive action as a nation when we’re so polarized? could covid-19 become a catalyzing call for unity? what tools or advice would vivek suggest to a ceo or company leader for counterbalancing the effects of loneliness among his or her staff during this time of intense isolation? how did vivek determine there was a chronic loneliness problem in the workplace, and in what way does his inside scoop exercise help workmates form a closer, more familial connection with one another? polls and questions that can help check the pulse of your team members at work and their level of connection. what does vivek mean when he says “remember your anchors,” and what does he consider his own anchors? during what period of time did vivek feel especially lost, lonely, and “probably depressed?” what made vivek’s transition out of his role as surgeon general so traumatic, what did the aftermath look like, and what has helped him get past it? how many of us look at emotions as a source of weakness versus a source of power? how did the book vivek wound up writing differ from the book he thought he was going to write? parting thoughts. people mentioned vivek’s parents tim urban barack obama andrew cuomo sigal barsade wayne baker adam grant jocko willink cal fussman peter attia serena williams lebron james related and recommended the tim ferriss show is one of the most popular podcasts in the world with over 400 million downloads. it has been selected for "best of apple podcasts" three times, it is often the #1 interview podcast across all of apple podcasts, and it's been ranked #1 out of 400,000+ podcasts on many occasions. to listen to any of the past episodes for free, check out this page. topics: categoriesthe tim ferriss showtags: tagscovid-19, depression, loneliness, self-care leave a reply cancel reply comment rules: remember what fonzie was like? cool. that’s how we’re gonna be — cool. critical is fine, but if you’re rude, we’ll delete your stuff. please do not put your url in the comment text and please use your personal name or initials and not your business name, as the latter comes off like spam. have fun and thanks for adding to the conversation! (thanks to brian oberkirch for the inspiration) 3 replies to “dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more (#417)” jim says: march 26, 2020 at 11:09 pm and also we will all need psilocybin mushroom to fight depression and fear. seems like it will be everywhere quite soon. reply jmes says: march 27, 2020 at 5:46 am really enjoyed the episode. thoughtful questions and wise responses — grounding in times like these, so thank you both 🙏🏼 the discussion around fostering workplace culture brought to mind know your team. initially made by the team behind basecamp (of dhh and jason fried), it’s a software service that helps not only manage teams, but build the type of connection you talked to in the show. they’ve put a lot of thought into how to build trust and connection amongst a team, providing useful questions and frameworks to guide everything from getting feedback to exercises like vivek’s “inside scoop exercise”. i’d recommend giving it a look: https://knowyourteam.com/m/features just wanted to say, thanks tim, for your amazing response to the pandemic. pragmatic as ever, and most of all inspiring. hope you’re doing well amidst it all 💪🏼 reply biggusriggus says: march 27, 2020 at 6:43 am firstly, this was a great interview; thank you tim and vivek. i couldn’t help but feel that this was a very personal discussion, that captured not only the challenges that are before us as a society, but also how we each can relate to these challenges as individuals. there is a lot to unpack, however, so please forgive me. covid19 – an excellent introduction to the issues at hand. the information forthcoming has been generally sporadic, with respect to (1) severity, and (2) how one should act. increasingly, i am beginning to see this framed as a choice between health and well-being on the one hand, and performance of the economy on the other. simply put, it is a moral test; are people willing to do the “right” thing, at the cost of their wallet? personal responsibility – the above-mentioned challenges rest firmly on us as individuals. our systems have been developed to value liberty of the individual (i.e. a free society) above all else. the longevity of such a system relies on us to get together (as individuals) and work towards a solution. this means that each person has a responsibility for his own actions, and to his common man. if we fail here, does the experiment fail? (australia is not doing a good job at this point). taking a hard look at ourselves – i think the result of events such as this will involve looking at how we behave, and taking some account of whether this stacks up in the long run. i’d take a punt and suggest there is a lot that doesn’t. this includes but is not limited to; (1) the fragility of an economy built on debt, (2) inability to delay gratification, (3) not prioritizing the things that are “true” in life, (4) the role of the state in liberal democracies (often mislabeled as social democracies). there will be many lessons to learn, and we probably won’t enjoy those lessons as they go against conventional wisdom of the day. science – or rephrased, the limitations of scientific knowledge. most people go about their lives and do not give a flying f about “science”. while we certainly rely on scientific knowledge to understand the universe a little better, science cannot show you how to live a good life. ask a man to “take one” for society, and science offers him nothing. this answer lives in a realm outside of what science can capture. and not only that, there are severe limitations on what science can capture. (see: all the folks out there trying to [incorrectly/randomly] model virus performance – they are effectively poking around in the dark. to be loved and be lovely – in the theory of moral sentiments, adam smith suggests that man naturally desires, not only to be loved, but to be lovely. fewer true words have been written. we all wish to be respected and valued for our contribution and have our conscious satisfied that we are perusing our highest ideal. i think that it is fair to say that there are a few blokes out there scratching their heads as how to accomplish this. if things head south economically, this is going to be a priority (hint: the answers lie in the past, not the future). climate change – i want to knock this right on the head. there is no link between a virus pandemic and climate change. in fact, contrary to common belief, climate change is a complex issue. consider this. is there climate change? can we measure it? ok. is there human contribution to climate change? can we measure it? can we influence the human impact on climate change? have we considered the consequences of making sudden changes to factors which contribute to human induced climate change? if yes to all these things, then; (1) what is the cost, (2) is it affordable (by you the individual, as well as “society”), (3) what steps have you as an individual made to reduce your impact to climate change [if nothing, reconsider your ability to reorganize society to align with your cloud-in-the-sky ideology]. now you’re this far, are you prepared to wear: (1) the deaths/misfortunes that arise from pricing that participants in the market cannot maintain? e.g. little old ladies with no aircon in summer/poor people in society, (2) the reduction in wealth that cannot be generated by developing regions which rely on cheap, reliable (however polluted), power sources that western nations have had access to for generations. long story short, this is a complex issue; and not appropriate for dropping into your next podcast appearance because it sounds cool. “we” and its use with respect to corporate entities – the company or organisation you work for is not your family. this is important so i am going to repeat it: your workplace is not your family. if, as in this podcast, there are suggestions that your workplace should become an extension of your family this is a red flag that you should run. organisations, for-profit/non-profit/government or otherwise exist for one reason; to benefit its “shareholders”. if you work for tim’s company, the beneficiary is tim. if it’s the government, the beneficiary is the people (controlled by a bureaucrat). neither “shareholder” has your interests at heart – as all people are self-interested (unchanged throughout time). of course, they want “productivity” – i.e. machines. i do not wish to be misunderstood on this point. yes, we should be useful to each other and expect fair payment for our services. yes, it is better to work a job that you like over one that you don’t. yes, it is better to have respected relationships over ones that are not respected. but even jesus, the perfect man as such, was shafted by his peers. no, the organisation you work for is not your family. ladies, take note. values – it would seem to me that the most successful societies have shared values. to be honest, i haven’t been involved in enough to confirm this with certainty, but i can confidently state this: “all successful teams share common values”. i am aware that there is fragmentation among our societies, and they are becoming polarised. i’ll give you’re a quick story. my grandparents immigrated to australia from germany in search of work, after having a rough time. they took pride in fitting in with the rest, working hard, getting paid, and looking after their family. nowadays, work isn’t just the means, it’s the ends. and that corporation you’re working for doesn’t just serve its shareholders, it has an opinion on everything and is the idol you must obey if you wish to go to heaven. is multiculturalism really a thing, or is it just a facade for being multi-raced but thinking the same? kindness and compassion – this is it. the secret sauce of humanity. leaders should aim to strike a balance between performance and compassion. it takes a special type to do this. unfortunately, anyone with a heart is likely to be corrupted by bureaucratic systems by the time they make it (if in fact they last that long). small is better, it preserves the personal touch in relationships. it’s not where things are headed, but this may change given current developments. the funny thing about all the “scientific” talk at the start of the podcast, that the conversation spends most of its time in areas where science is really no use. how to spend a life? what’s important? does a job title define you? if it did, do you want it to? how does one become a man/woman? (hint: steal the key from your mothers pillow and find a new king). how does one build themselves to becoming robust to the challenges of life. do you take responsibility for your own circumstances, or do you rely on some abstract concept of “government”? personally, i’ve never met “the government”. wouldn’t even know their name of phone number. emotion – it was interesting to hear vivek speak about emotion. no doubt emotion has its place in life. however, i would suggest that emotion plays too much a part in current discourse. a man (in particular) should be rational in thought, but not so much as to discount emotion, which is there to guide his decision making not command it. and of course, many (but not all) women are somewhat more emotional than the common man. is there a synergy here? how interesting. one should of course strive to love your neighbour as yourself, but not be misguides by the ebbs and flows of pathos, over and above logos. reply post navigation previous postprevious how to support healthcare workers now — plus urgent suggestions for uber eats, hilton, amazon, and more (#416) join 1.5m+ subscribers and receive exclusive tools, tips, and resources directly from tim: type your email address yes, sign me up for tim's free email newsletter. i agree to the privacy policy. get access twitter instagram facebook youtube linkedin click to subscribe apple podcasts spotify overcast popular podcasts brené brown — striving versus self-acceptance, saving marriages, and more (#409) how to support healthcare workers now — plus urgent suggestions for uber eats, hilton, amazon, and more (#416) jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos (#414) the top 25 episodes of the tim ferriss show from 2019 topics 30-day challenges (2) 4-hour case studies (50) automation (7) comfort challenges (4) dance (3) e-mail detox (23) entrepreneurship (60) fearless (2) filling the void (93) gadgets (15) geoarbitrage (8) interviews (29) investing (18) language (16) low-information diet (42) marketing (54) mental performance (42) mini-retirements (24) muse examples (9) nonsense (5) opening the kimono – otk (4) outsourcing life (17) physical performance (51) practical philosophy (39) presentations (3) protecting time (14) psychedelics (14) quarterly shipments (3) random (29) remote offices (7) rockstar living in… (5) rust and iron (2) science (5) the 4-hour body – 4hb (48) the 4-hour chef – 4hc (39) the 4-hour chef recipes (1) the book – 4hww (44) the slow-carb diet (4) the tim ferriss experiment – tfx (11) the tim ferriss show (394) the tim ferriss show transcripts (256) tim ferriss book club (6) tools of titans (8) travel (67) tribe of mentors (10) writing and blogging (35) books by tim ferriss the 4-hour workweek the 4-hour body the 4-hour chef tools of titans tribe of mentors we use cookies and similar technologies to run this website and help us understand how you use it. see our cookie policy here. sitemap site terms of service privacy policy copyright © 2007–2020 tim ferriss. the 4-hour® is a registered trademark of tim ferriss. all rights reserved. privacy policy proudly powered by wordpress | hosted by pressable send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.