dragon season a guild wars 2 fan site menu skip to content home discord activities staff about search for: living world season 5: “the icebrood saga” begins sept 17th september 5, 2019newsnortherner “you do not fear death, you fear something far worse… you fear outliving the ones you swore to protect… you fear the day your children no longer feel the chill of the frost… or the warmth of the flame. it is this fear that is your enemy. not i.” so begins the chilling speech of jormag in the trailer for the new living world season, as the elder dragon yet again has awoke from its slumber, most probably disturbed by the death of kralkatorrik. read more leave a comment why i return to tyria and gw2 april 12, 2019editorialsnortherner thevalliant’s interesting article on parting ways with guild wars 2 for now made me consider my own choices in the past months and years. i will be the first to admit i have taken several breaks from guild wars 2, but to be honest i actually feel the developer themselves legitimised it in past years more or less stating the casual nature meant you were free to play as you wanted, when you wanted. read more one comment so far how i stopped playing gw2 (and learned to love teso) november 30, 2018editorialsthevalliant my friends tell me that i haven’t logged in for 3 weeks, give or take. i remember full well when that was, because i remember the last thing i did: one final climb up the mad king’s tower. the day halloween left tyria, i felt unmotivated to visit it again. does this suggest i stopped loving gw2 maybe? read more one comment so far the cats of tyria august 29, 2018editorialsthevalliant as was wrapping up my next article, i got hit by a brilliant idea: i would write a teaser article, like an appetiser for it. so now this will be my next article and the next one will be the one after that. or something. let’s start with a statement we can all agree with: our home instance is poor. read more leave a comment hungry cats scavenger hunt – a guide august 22, 2018guidesthevalliant following up from my previous article, the cats of tyria, i am going to guide you through a long but hopefully fun journey on this one. much like a safari, only our aim is to capture our prey alive – better even, politely persuade it to follow us home ^^ shamelessly enough, i started out to write the definitive guide to the hungry cats scavenger hunt. read more view all 3 comments username password remember me register popular articles how i stopped playing gw2 (and learned to love teso) by thevalliant how to: easily collect 30 points in hall of monuments by tilion a scrub’s guide to wvw(vw) land by thevalliant our friends posts navigation ← older posts links © 2003-2015 arenanet, inc. all rights reserved. guild wars 2 is a trademark of ncsoft corporation. copyright © ncsoft corporation.all rights reserved. arenanet, arena.net and the arenanet logo, as well as guild wars, are trademarks or registered trademarks of ncsoft corporation.all other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok