skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search drag & drop home » drag & drop top 28 free wpbakery page builder (visual composer) addons & extensions for wordpress 2020 march 26, 2020 alex ivanovs plugins 15 comments wpbakery page builder was the first-ever wordpress plugin for building pages that support addons/plugins. wpbakery page builder has been growing in popularity since early 2011. although more than 1m websites are using wpbakery page builder today, the fact that the… read more→ top 21 free & paid drag & drop page builder wordpress plugins 2020 march 26, 2020 alex ivanovs plugins 17 comments why do people go for wordpress? why is it the most popular blogging platform there is? certainly, every blogger will have a different answer to these questions, but what will remain is a simple foundation, the fact that wordpress makes… read more→ 12 best wordpress theme frameworks 2020 march 22, 2020 aigars frameworks, theme collections 20 comments wordpress theme frameworks present webmasters with the fundamental functionality and enable them to make modifications to their appearance and functionality. if you’ve been using wordpress for some time now, you probably already know that customizing a theme wasn’t as easy… read more→ 19 professional wordpress themes for programmers to showcase resume and portfolio 2020 march 14, 2020 aigars theme collections 33 comments need a wordpress theme for developers? we have got you covered with this huge set of wordpress themes for devs. in the internet age, programming can be a very lucrative business. however, there is a line that must be drawn… read more→ top 20 free website builders for web designers & developers 2020 march 8, 2020 aigars silkalns website builders 8 comments here you will find the best free website builder for your first website! these pages builders are easy to use, fast to set up and affordable to run. investing in an agency to build you a new website can turn… read more→ top 38 wordpress webshop themes to build a professional ecommerce website 2020 march 2, 2020 aigars theme collections 1 comment the internet is the world’s greatest, largest, and perhaps, its last true frontier, a vast and ripe land full of possibilities, uncharted territories, opportunities, dangers, chance, and fortune. it’s where most of this decade’s new billionaires have made their money,… read more→ 30+ simple wordpress dentist themes for dentistry practice or clinic 2020 january 21, 2020 aigars theme collections 6 comments looking for the best dentist wordpress themes for your dental clinic? we have got you covered! here you will find the best wp themes for dental clinics, dentists, odontologists, and orthodontists. one might think that dentistry and web development are… read more→ 29 best responsive wordpress themes with slider for corporate, startup and other professional websites 2020 january 16, 2020 aigars theme collections 4 comments are you looking for a wordpress theme with a slider? we have showcased the best wp themes for any category and all of them include multiple slider options. if you own a business that is just starting out, you will… read more→ 30 professional wordpress technology theme for apps, landing pages and tech startups 2020 january 16, 2020 aigars theme collections 2 comments starting a tech startup and need a wordpress technology theme to make your app, business or saas stand out? thes wp themes exactly what you need! this modern age is definitely difficult to pin down and categorize. traditional forms of… read more→ 30 neat & popular websites using visual composer wordpress plugin 2019 june 19, 2019 vishnu inspiration 2 comments a page builder is an indispensable tool for a website developer (especially newbies). it helps in figuring out the layout of a website and determine which component goes into which slot. it is also useful in preparing what can be… read more→ 30 websites using best selling wordpress theme – avada – 2019 june 12, 2019 vishnu inspiration 32 comments avada - responsive multi-purpose theme avada is an extremely popular theme, well-known for its versatility. it is one of the top selling wordpress themes with over 170,000 purchases. it has also garnered a five-star rating from a good majority of… read more→ 30 websites using salient theme – stunning salient theme examples 2019 june 10, 2019 vishnu inspiration 2 comments salient is wordpress theme from themenectar. it has been purchased over 40,000 times and has an active community of users. an updated version has recently been released and it promises improved performance coupled with bug fixes. visual composer is now… read more→ 30 beautiful websites built with brooklyn wordpress theme june 8, 2019 vishnu inspiration 0 comments brooklyn is the most popular one-page theme on themeforest for three years on the trot - 2013, 2014 and 2015. it counts over 11,000 users. brooklyn is a one-page parallax wordpress theme that can easily convert into your personal website.… read more→ composer theme review – high quality multipurpose wordpress theme november 14, 2017 aigars silkalns reviews 0 comments composer is a relatively new wordpress theme that’s been created to help you unlock the potential of the world’s leading online publishing platform. that’s right. if you have a wordpress website or you’re thinking of launching one, composer could be… read more→ pearl theme review: a brand new multi-purpose wordpress theme september 5, 2017 joe fylan reviews 1 comment pearl is a brand new multi-purpose wordpress theme from the stylemixthemes team. so far the pre-built website demos cover a range of different project types, making this a theme that should be of interest to a wide audience. however, additional… read more→ thesis 2.0 – diy theme framework october 11, 2013 aigars frameworks 0 comments thesis 2.0 is diy theme framework for faster website and theme development. it is not just for faster development but is also fastest to load in comparison to other theme frameworks. thesis is designed mainly to be used for blog and magazine themes, however, you can push it forward if you really want to. it is not as customizable and complex as canvas theme framework but no everyone needs fancy features that no one will use. thesis is one of the most popular theme frameworks and is used for thousands of top bloggers. it has this special aura that makes bloggers to choose this framework and then stick with it along the way. read more→ page 1 page 2 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×