got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos drake featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... home › drake post malone worries fans with troubling behavior! drag race drama! justin bieber in crisis! and… 03/08/20 5:18pm pdt click for details two nights in a row! kylie jenner & drake reunite with nights out months after sparking relationship rumors! 03/06/20 9:46am pdt click for details back at it again... kylie jenner & travis scott reunite for weekend lunch date, once again sparking relationship rumors! 03/02/20 9:42am pdt click for details amanda bynes shares love for drake 7 years after her 'murder my vagina' tweet and she's celebrating 14 months of sobriety! 03/02/20 7:03am pdt click for details love in the air? travis scott is 'very protective' of kylie jenner & not 'thrilled' with other guys! 02/11/20 1:17pm pdt click for details 'ugh that is so f**king creepy!' billie eilish talks drake, fans, & having a britney spears 'breakdown' in first vogue cover! 02/04/20 7:45am pdt click for details should travis be worried?! kylie jenner spotted clubbing with new man by her side... 01/05/20 8:14am pdt click for details who bought kylie this ring?!? kylie jenner shows off massive diamond the day after christmas! 12/27/19 11:17am pdt click for details drake spills all! rapper talks kanye west & pusha-t beefs, working with chris brown, & more! 12/26/19 12:04pm pdt click for details spilling the karjenner tea! kylie jenner's grandma gets shady about travis scott breakup! 12/03/19 11:16am pdt click for details click for more news hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy