dreamhost.com contact support english (us) español dreamhost getting started panel overview facebook twitter linkedin dreamhost control panel overview overview this article is an overview of the control panel as a whole. while it won’t necessarily cover all of the specifics of every single page, it provides you with the resources to navigate the panel and locate any information needed. the location of 'one-click installs' has moved. you can now manage your one-click installation on the one-click installs page. logging into the dreamhost panel to log into your dreamhost panel, visit the following url: https://panel.dreamhost.com/ enter your primary email address linked to your account and its password, or use google's single sign on method using your gmail address. click the sign in button. if you forgot your password, click reset password and follow the instructions. only the primary email set up on your account can reset your password using this link. if you require other people to access your account you must set up account privileges for each new user. if you’ve enabled multi-factor authentication (mfa), your login screen looks like this: enter the mfa code and then click sign in. view the enabling multi-factor authentication article for details on this service. vertical menus the following describes the menus from top to bottom that appears on the left side of your panel. main menu the main menu is the primary list for all the pages in your panel. each section has a description of the various actions you are able to perform once they’re selected. each of the items is described in the following table: menu item description link to more information home the only option available is 'get started' which is the main dashboard page of the panel where you see news regarding dreamhost services. domains where you manage domain services such as hosting, dns, registration, transfers, ssl/tls certificates, and one-click installs. a webftp service is also available for you to log into your server. domains menu wordpress links to view your dreampress site info and add additional resources to enhance the website. wordpress menu mail allows you to manage email services such as filters, discussion/announcement lists, mx records, and more. mail menu ftp & ssh users provides options to manage your website users. ftp & ssh user's menu billing & account provides links to manage your account, make payments, and more. billing & account menu support provides links to the knowledge base, panel help links, data centers, and the contact support page. support menu vps provides the links to to configure a virtual private server (vps) and manage its users. vps menu dedicated servers similar to the vps category, but instead specifically refers to managing a dedicated server rather than a vps. dedicated servers menu remixer use dreamhost's click-to-edit site builder remixer, which requires no coding experience. remixer cloud services provides access to dreamobjects and dreamcompute services. cloud services menu more lists additional services to further manage your sites. for example, you can create cron jobs, manage mysql databases, set up an .htaccess file to password protect your site, and much more. more menu search field box while you could navigate the panel using the main menu described above, you can also use the search box in the upper right of your panel. support dropdown menu the top right of the panel lists options that are described below: menu item where it links description knowledge base https://help.dreamhost.com/ dreamhost's knowledge base that contains articles to help customers find solutions to any issues they may have. toggle knowledge center toggle panel help on and off. when on, you'll see relevant articles linked on the right of the page. data centers data centers page clicking this opens the data centers page where you can view the location of your dreamhost servers. contact support contact support page links you to panel support page where you can submit a ticket. account information click your username on the upper right of the home page to open the following account information box: explanation of account information links account information opens the manage account page, where you can view a list of your active account services such as hosting plans, servers, users created, mailboxes, domains, and databases. profile information opens the contact information page, where you can change your contact information and email address for your account. see the updating contact information article for more information. privacy settings opens the privacy settings page, where you can adjust messaging and privacy preferences for dreamhost's email notices and services. see the privacy settings overview article for more information. refer & earn opens the refer and earn page, where you can configure an account to earn rewards for referring people to dreamhost. see the refer & earn article for more information. payments opens the manage payments page, where you can make a payment, set up autopay, or add a credit card or paypal to your account. see the make a payment article for more information. logout click the 'logout' link to end your current session in the panel. see also list of panel overview articles did this article answer your questions? yes no sending feedback... this form is only for article feedback. if you require assistance, please contact support. how can we improve this page? thank you for your feedback! we'll use it to improve the knowledge base. if you still require assistance, and you're an existing dreamhost customer, please contact support. if you're not a customer yet, please contact our sales team for further assistance. article last updated february 28, 2020 00:24 pst. facebook twitter linkedin related articles where can i find cpanel? wordpress panel what are the different types of dreamhost users? why is my email going to spam? images in remixer still not finding what you're looking for? contact our support team with any additional questions or concerns. contact support get started dreamhost.com sign up log in services domains web hosting vps hosting dedicated servers wordpress hosting cloud storage cloud computing company about blog careers press & news affiliates partners green hosting legal support contact forums report abuse terms of service privacy policy whois