register a .com domain name for just $7.99 hosting flash sale: save over 50% register a .vip domain name for just $1.99 hosting flash sale: save over 60% register a .online domain name for just $1.99 hosting flash sale: save over 50% register a .xyz domain name for just $0.89 hosting flash sale: save over 50% register a .com domain name for just $7.99 hosting flash sale: save over 50% register a .wedding domain name for just $4.99 hosting flash sale: save over 50% affiliates knowledge base blog wordpress hosting websites domains email grow affiliates knowledge base blog company careers news log in web hosting cp dreamcompute cp remixer webmail get started shared website hostingmost popular the classic way to get all the essentials. starts at $2.59/mo vps hosting isolated resources for more performance, control & room to grow. starts at $10.00/mo managed wordpress hosting makes wordpress faster, more secure, & hassle-free. starts at $16.95/mo dedicated server hosting your very own server — the ultimate in performance. starts at $149/mo cloud hosting powerful cloud computing and object storage for your project. starts at $4.50/mo hosting overview quality hosting made easy whatever your website or application needs, we’ve got you covered. enjoy 100% in-house support, guaranteed performance and uptime, 1-click installs, and a super-intuitive control panel to make managing your websites and projects easy. limited-time savings! 30% off unlimited shared hosting save now wordpress basic the classic way to get all the essentials. starts at $2.59/mo dreampressmore power managed wordpress with staging, caching & on-demand backups. starts at $16.95/mo woocommerce hosting everything for your wordpress-powered online store. starts at $16.95/mo vps for wordpress dedicated for wordpress compare all wordpress solutions wordpress done right with 20+ years experience hosting over 1.5 million websites, blogs, and online stores — there’s no better place to power your wordpress site. dreamhost academy articles what is wordpress? get started with wordpress basics managed vs shared wordpress hosting see all 42 wordpress tutorials wp website buildernew the quickest way to build your wordpress site. starts at $2.59/mo website design service hire a pro to build your polished, professional site fast. starts at $249 making websites simple whether you’re learning to build a site for the first time, you prefer to hire a designer to build your site for you, or a seasoned developer building a s site from scratch, we have the perfect solution. best articles on building your site how to install a wordpress theme how to develop a wordpress theme how to hire a custom theme developer your great idea starts with a domain name search .club .io .tech .wedding .xyz .com see all domain extensions limited-time offer $ .com domains with a .com domain name, you can get the most sought-after domain extension! more about domains at dreamhost find your dream domain a great idea starts with a great domain. reserve yours today before someone else snags it! we support all the most popular extensions and provide privacy protection standard. helpful links about domains at dreamhost free domain privacy protection how to transfer a domain to dreamhost move beyond just .com - see all extensions email hosting powerful, simple, reliable email @ your domain. starts at $1.67/mo per mailbox g suitefor current customers work together from anywhere. starts at $6/user per month email hosting @ your domain nothing is more professional than a personalized email address using your very own domain name! our email plan makes it easy to get legit quick. meet dreamhost web hosting with purpose we make sure your website is fast, secure & always up - so your visitors & search engines trust you. guaranteed. get started it's more than a website... the latest deals from dreamhost. save now! wordpress hosting starting @ $2.59/mo → website hosting starting @ $2.59/mo → .com domain names @ $ → pcmag's "editors' choice" winner 5 years in a row dreamhost helps you succeed grow your website faster by using dreamhost as your foundation. super easy to use our custom control panel is simple to use and removes the headache of managing your web hosting. full featured we do more than web hosting. our tool suite includes everything you need to be successful. fast & reliable if your website is slow or down, then you are losing customers, conversion and search engine rankings. 24/7 expert support our award-winning us-based experts are available to help when you get stuck — anytime, day or night. big or small, rookie or professional — we have a hosting solution for you choose a platform below. most popular wordpress hosting get up and running fast with wordpress. optimized for performance and preconfigured for easy maintenance. starting at: $2.59/mo learn more website hosting shared website hosting gives you a free domain name, fast ssd storage and email hosting for your website starting at: $2.59/mo learn more new lower price: $10/month vps hosting virtual private servers with ultra-fast ssds and flexibility with http/2, ubuntu, ipv6, nginx, node.js and more. starting at: $10.00/mo learn more wp website builder no code required! build your site confidently with design tools that simplify wordpress. starting at: $2.59/mo learn more dedicated hosting fast web servers to run your applications with root access and a 100% uptime guarantee. starting at: $149/mo learn more cloud hosting lightning-fast servers with root access, ssd storage and blazing-fast networking powered by open apis through openstack. starting at: $0.0075/hour learn more compare products against each other close comparison table product great for... price range shared hosting small personal sites starting at $2.59/mo learn more vps hosting hosting small-to-medium sized business sites that require more power and speed than shared hosting. $10/mo - $80/mo learn more wordpress hosting hosting your wordpress site and not having to worry about plugin updates, backups, or security threats. starting at $2.59/mo learn more website builder no code required! build your site confidently with design tools that simplify wordpress. starting at $2.59/mo learn more dedicated hosting large websites and for users who need root access. $149/mo - $379/mo learn more cloud hosting creating simple cloud servers or advanced network configurations. $0.0075/hour - $0.08/hour learn more or choose a domain find your domain name search $?? $?? $?? $?? $?? $?? "i've always appreciated how easy it is - how simple it is. compared to other sites, it's 'buy this, upgrade to this'. with dreamhost it's been a clean and honest experience. there's no massive marketing stuff all over the place." peter k | j-cakes.com customer since 2000 "our clients and customers count on us to provide feature-rich ecommerce websites, and with dreamhost dedicated hosting we have confidence that our sites are secure, fast, and reliable. dedicated hosting has been an essential part of our growth and success." laura peters | funnychord.com customer since 2015 "i love that dreamhost has one-click wordpress installs, which make setup a breeze! the interface is the most user-friendly platform i've ever worked with after 10-plus years of trying out many other competitors. i'm a happy, loyal, lifelong customer." jennifer emerling | jennemerlingweddings.com customer since 2008 "i've been a dreamhost customer ever since i first started doing web design. their customer service is outstanding and their hosting is super reliable at an affordable price." jeremiah s | typewolf.com customer since 2011 dreamhost helps you get there. what makes dreamhost so different? with nearly 20 years of hosting experience, we focus on successful sites for web designers, developers, bloggers and online businesses. our community and support helps you create a website fast and easy! employee owned being employee-owned keeps us focused on the unique needs of our users, and we wouldn't have it any other way. we're committed to helping everyone find success online. passion for privacy we believe in everyone's right to privacy, and we back that with a strong anti-spam policy and free whois privacy. commitment to security our many security features include multi factor authentication, auto-enabled sftp and free secure hosting with let's encrypt. embrace open source we strongly believe in providing open source solutions to our customers whenever possible. 24/7 support our in-house team members do their best to provide one-touch resolution, making you feel like a part of our family. 100% uptime guaranteed we guarantee it so you don't have to worry about it. frequently asked questions what is web hosting? web hosting allows businesses, organizations, and individuals to make their websites or apps visible on the internet. whether they're using a dedicated server, or sharing resources, every website is hosted on a server. the only way for a website to be visible on the internet is if it's hosted by a web hosting service provider, also known as a web host. in order to find a website, you type the domain name (or url) into your browser. your computer will then connect to the server where the website is hosted, and the webpage is delivered onto your screen. what are the different types of web hosting products dreamhost offers? dreamhost offers several different types of hosting plans that work for all website hosting needs. shared hosting: shared hosting is the most affordable option, but it does have its limitations. shared hosting customers share the server's resources with other customers. if another website on the same server is receiving large amounts of traffic, or using a lot of the server's limited resources, it's possible that your site may run slower as a result. while dreamhost works hard to make sure all sites on a shared server never disrupt other sites, this is always a possibility due to the nature of the product. that's why we recommend that you look at our more powerful options if you're expecting to experience high traffic levels on your site. what can i host on shared hosting? shared hosting is perfect for blogs, portfolios, personal/business sites, and database-driven sites. learn more about shared hosting wordpress hosting (dreampress) dreampress is dreamhost's managed wordpress hosting. it's a scalable service that allows users to manage their wordpress sites worry-free via automatic updates, caching, daily backups, and a content delivery network (cdn). learn more about dreampress vps dreamhost's virtual private server (vps) hosting is a premium solution that runs faster than our shared hosting. it's available as an add-on to an existing dreamhost plan, but also as a standalone service. dreamhost's vpss use linux-vserver to create a "virtual machine" that protects a user's resources from others on the same physical machine. this allows for a more powerful solution. shared vs. vps hosting on a shared server, resources are shared by other users. on a vps, these resources are more isolated which improves performance and helps to maintain stability. you also have the ability to control how much ram your server uses. what can i host on a vps? a virtual private server is ideal for websites that require more resources than a shared server can provide, but may not need the full power of a dedicated server. vps is ideal for businesses, ecommerce websites, designers, and developers that need unhindered performance. learn more about vps dedicated a dedicated server is a server that only contains your files on it. you also get full root access: a major benefit if you're looking to customize your server to fit your specific needs. please note that dreamhost support cannot assist if any errors occur as a result of a customization. another benefit of a dedicated server is that your mysql server is on the same server, allowing for faster access. with all other hosting plans your mysql database is on a separate database server. what can i host on a dedicated server? dedicated servers are fully-managed, business class servers. they are perfect for resource-heavy apps and giant websites. learn more about dedicated hosting cloud dreamhost offers two different cloud hosting products. object storage dreamobjects is a cost-effective cloud storage service, which you can use to host static data for your websites, store backups, or develop the next big thing. you can access dreamobjects in your panel using the built-in interface, programmatically via standard apis, or with a growing library of applications. dreamobjects is compatible with the amazon s3 api. learn more about compatible applications with dreamobjects learn more about dreamobjects here cloud computing dreamcompute is a highly scalable cloud computing service built to power: web and mobile applications digital media and e-commerce websites big data testing and development environments all instances can be managed through the dreamcompute's dashboard built off of openstack's horizon. how do i buy a domain name? buying a domain name with dreamhost is simple and comes with features that a lot of other hosts don't offer. use our domain search tool to buy your desired domain name; we'll let you know if someone else has already purchased it, and will serve up alternative versions that are available. after buying your domain name with dreamhost, you'll also receive: + free whois privacy protection (which keeps your website registration details private) + auto-renewals (so you don't have to worry about a lapse in ownership) + unlimited subdomains (like blog.yoursite.com, or mexico.yoursite.com, for example) + domain setting controls at your fingertips (like mx records, cname, etc.) how do i migrate over to dreamhost? if you want to move your web hosting to dreamhost, the first step is to create a dreamhost account – you can do that from any of our product pages (shared hosting, vps, dedicated, dreampress) during the signup process, select the option to add your current domain to your new account – don't worry, this does not affect your current live website! next, you'll need to backup your website files and upload them to dreamhost. you can learn more about this here. once you've migrated your website to dreamhost's servers, you'll need to check the site to confirm that it looks and functions just as intended. if everything looks great, you'll need to point your dns to dreamhost so people know where to find you! if this sounds complicated, don't worry. we have some documentation here on how it's done. have some questions before you get started? no worries. get in touch with us and we'll be happy to help. can you help me understand more about wordpress? definitely. we have some awesome wordpress guides that can help answer most of your questions. if you get stuck, we are always here to help as well. does dreamhost offer an “email only” hosting plan? yes! dreamhost offers professional email @yourdomain, with 25gb storage, mobile and desktop sync, ad-free webmail — as well as spam, virus, and phishing filters. promote your site with every message you send! learn more can i talk to support even if i'm not a current customer? of course! visit our support page and select 'sales'. or, if you're on our site between 8-4 pm pst, you can chat with us from any of our product pages (shared hosting, vps, dedicated, dreampress). need some help? whether you’re stuck or just want some tips on where to start, hit up our experts anytime. sales chat: mon-fri 8am-4pm pt through the chat widget. customer support chat: every day 5:30am–9:30pm pt through the panel. products wordpress hosting website builder shared hosting virtual private servers dedicated servers domain names monthly web hosting company about affiliates blog careers community news green hosting partners press releases reviews legal legal information privacy policy report abuse terms of service whois lookup support help us route you to the best support channel available existing customer sales / can't login contact knowledge base forums system status login web hosting dreamcompute website builder webmail copyright © 2020 dreamhost, llc.