home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum posts by tag dua lipa 35 posts she released her album eventually. have a read the briefing the one thing better than dua lipa's physical is… release this song on 12" immediately. have a read the briefing new music friday: dua lipa's got a new song out basically the new dua lipa song is quite good have a read the briefing swan song could become one of dua lipa's cygneture hits not really a song about swans have a read the briefing dua lipa's got a pen and she's not afraid to use it she changed the words to swan song while making it. amazing. have a read the briefing plia lipa's got a new song coming out! it's off a film soundtrack. have a read the briefing new music friday: sugar & spice and other things nice includes an asda shoutout. have a read features the 2017 popjustice readers' poll: the results so we made a mistake when we launched the voting for this year's popjustice readers' poll. at the top of the entry form was a photograph of louis tomlinson with… have a read the briefing interview with the radiator from the new dua lipa single sleeve plus the idgaf video, in case you'd like to give that a watch. have a read features the top 45 singles of 2017 it's not 2018 yet. here are 45 amazing songs, some words, and some playlists. have a read the briefing new music friday: it's a rollover week for the dua lipa remix, with louis tomlinson at the bottom and various songs in between lots of good songs but no great ones. :( welcome to popjustice, a glorified pop blog celebrating 21st century pop, the people who make it, and the people who make the people who make it. more outlook for march 26: you are advised to stay indoors until duageddon passes physical by dua lipa is the biggest song right now for what it's worth apple music's most streamed song is rain (feat. tay keith) - aitch & aj tracey the best popstar is currently dua lipa and that's that 4 years, 1 month, 30 days since the last rihanna album pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits robbie williams interview interview: the internet versus lily allen lady gaga interview: "i looked to my past and my faith to find bravery in myself" further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled