video webinars start a business subscribe books franchise home quiz: find your franchise business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers dunkin' #1 franchise 500| coffee, doughnuts, baked goods my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map dunkin' coffee, doughnuts, baked goods previous | next about founded 1950 franchising since 1955 (65 years) corporate address 130 royall st. canton, ma 02021 ceo david hoffmann parent company dunkin' brands ticker symbol dnkn financial requirements initial investment ⓘ $395,500 - $1,597,200 net-worth requirement ⓘ $250,000 - $500,000 liquid cash requirement ⓘ $125,000 - $250,000 ongoing fees initial franchise fee ⓘ $40,000 - $90,000 ongoing royalty fee 5.9% ad royalty fee 5% financing options dunkin' has relationships with third-party sources which offer financing to cover the following:  franchise fee, startup costs, equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, payroll veteran incentives 20% off franchise fee for first five traditional restaurants support options ongoing support purchasing co-ops newsletter meetings/conventions toll-free line grand opening online support security/safety procedures field operations proprietary software franchisee intranet platform marketing support co-op advertising ad templates national media regional advertising social media seo website development email marketing loyalty program/app on-the-job training: 244-354 hours classroom training: 45-54 hours dunkin' is ranked #1 in the franchise 500! bio in 1946, bill rosenberg founded industrial luncheon services, a company that delivered meals and snacks to workers in the boston area. the success of industrial luncheon services convinced rosenberg to start the open kettle, a doughnut shop in quincy, massachusetts. two years later, the open kettle changed its name to dunkin' donuts. today, dunkin' donuts stores can be found in over 32 countries, and they serve 70 varieties of doughnuts, along with hot and cold coffee drinks, bagels, breakfast sandwiches and other baked goods. dunkin' donuts parent company, dunkin' brands inc., also franchises baskin-robbins, and the two concepts are sometimes co-branded. cost initial investment: low - $395,500 high - $1,597,200 units +2.2%+281 units (1 year) +8.5%+1016 units (3 years) units (locations) where seeking franchisees: franchisor is seeking new franchise units worldwide. franchise financing using 401(k)/ira funds tax penalty-free debt free expert guidance learn more related franchises see more nothing bundt cakes see more cinnabon see more paris baguette see more great american cookies see more shipley do-nuts see more the human bean drive thru see more scooter's coffee see more breadsmith franchise articles the top 20 franchises of 2020 from the entrepreneur franchise 500 these 20 franchises start the new decade atop our franchise 500 list. matthew mccreary | 10 min read #2 on the franchise 500: how dunkin' continues to thrive even with a forward looking rebrand to just dunkin', the #2 company on our franchise 500 list knows its soul. matthew mccreary | 2 min read franchising provides owners with a proven model and opportunities to evolve the system the value of owning a franchise is the operating system. rick bisio | 5 min read how this franchise ceo learned to lead by making mistakes speedpro president and ceo larry oberly is haunted by some of his earliest missteps as a manager. but today, that's made him a better boss. stephanie schomer | 4 min read what franchises should know before hiring a pr firm franchisors and franchisees alike can benefit from a talented pr firm that can get the attention of new customers. here's how to find a match. hayden field | 3 min read disclaimer the franchise 500 is not intended to endorse, advertise, or recommend any particular franchise. it is solely a research tool you can use to compare franchise operations. entrepreneur stresses that you should always conduct your own independent investigation before investing money in a franchise. updated: august 27th, 2019 reprints & licensing update your listing submit new listing franchise financing using 401(k)/ira funds tax penalty-free debt free expert guidance regions/states list company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account