home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library arts and crafts get outdoors! latest articles prevnext early activities that your kids can get involved into leyla preston thu 15th aug 2019 3shares share tweet pin if you think back to your younger years, you may remember taking part in numerous extracurricular activities that your parents signed you up to at an early age. i remember wanting to spend time with my friends instead of partaking in these after school activities, but little did i know how much these activities fostered many areas of physical, mental and academic growth. the benefits of extracurricular activities also create transferrable skills like healthy time management, mental wellness and positive behaviour. so if you’re wondering how you could pass on these benefits to your child, then listen up as i have some ideas of early activities that your kids can get involved into now. table of contents try a sport consider an art class get involved with scouting do something musical foster a love of books try a sport https://pixabay.com/photos/football-youth-league-action-1623096 sport is a fantastic way to encourage kids not only to get outdoors and off the screens, but it can increase the chances of succeeding later in life. starting early means gaining the knowledge and obtaining the skills necessary to excel from an early age, but even if you register your kids for fun, sport can lead to all sorts of benefits for adulthood. according to stanford children’s health, sports help to regulate a healthy weight, develop motor skills, and boost self-confidence, as well as encourage human interaction and team playing skills. you can find sports teams for kids of all ages at schools, local recreation centres and through sporting clubs. cricket, football, rugby, tennis, basketball and polo are all fun ideas that kids love to play. consider an art class photo by rosemary ketchum from pexels creative activities for kids like arts and crafts are a great way to encourage kids to learn through play because arts and crafts spark creativity and promote fine motor development – plus, it is fun! you can find many art classes through your local community centre, at a nursery school or through your religious institution. keep some office stationery supplies and other art items at home so you can be actively involved in creating art with your kids. young artists often do well in other academic pursuits and creativity is a good skill to have for other subjects. get involved with scouting scouting is an invaluable activity for both boys and girls, and they can often start at age 5 and continue until they are 18. the whole scouting group offers valuable outdoor activities for kids, including how to make a fire, camping and other important life skills. it is for this reason why many members often stay involved with scouting into adulthood. the opportunities are endless, including as mentioned camping, artistic pursuits, building character, boosting social skills and much more. scouting is a fantastic organisation that helps kids find out who they are and helps build necessary skills for a lifetime of success. do something musical music is massively beneficial to the mental and physical development of a child, and it is not difficult to find places that offer lessons on an instrument of choice. your child might also be able to take such cultural classes at school or through your church. according to research at the massachusetts institute of technology, music lessons enhance language skills in kids as young as kindergarten. whether your child wants to learn how to play an instrument, star in a play or learn to dance, you’ll never regret getting them involved in music at a young age. foster a love of books children who enjoy reading are often successful in other aspects of their education, and they always have something enjoyable to do. you can start by taking your little ones to the library to find books to read together, and many libraries offer kids to join the summer reading challenge where they read at least six books over the summer and enter into the pot to win a prize at the end. you might also have them join a reading club, such as chatterbooks or create their book club with friends, so they always have access to exciting new reading material, as well as people with whom they can share. whichever you choose for your child, the importance of extracurricular activities is evident. as long as you engage your child in play through fun activities outside of the curriculum, then the act will help develop key skills in their early years. find something they enjoy and encourage them to keep at it for a while to ensure they get the best out of that activity. don’t forget that most kids will resist at the beginning. it may be worth paying for a term and telling them that if they don’t like it after that term, they don’t need to carry on. then try the next activity until you find the one where your child can excel and enjoy. *collaborative feature post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:booksearly activitiesextracurricularextracurricular activitiessport related posts olly the white van book series product r... the lovely book for wonderful women r... how you can encourage your child to be a... children not getting enough reading mate... how to help make primary school educatio... reading chest review and competition to ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 3shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok