millionaire trader preferred broker blog penny stocks 101 (guide) how to find good penny stocks 6 crazy day trading myths versus reality earnings per share guide after hours trading tips pre-market trading: prep techniques for traders operating income guide 37 stock market terms you should know how to short a stock (guide) more blog posts … press about tim sykes earnings claims disclosure none of millionaire media llc, its owners, officers, directors, employees, subsidiaries, affiliates, licensors, service providers, content providers and agents (expressly including but not limited to timothy sykes) all collectively hereinafter referred to as “timothy sykes,” the “company,” “millionaire media,” “our,” “us,” and “we” are financial advisers and nothing contained herein is intended to be or to be construed as financial advice. we are not an investment advisory service, are not an investment adviser, and do not provide personalized financial advice or act as a financial advisor. we exist for educational purposes only, and the materials and information contained herein are for general informational purposes only. none of the information provided in the website is intended as investment, tax, accounting or legal advice, as an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or as an endorsement, recommendation or sponsorship of any company, security, or fund. the information on the website should not be relied upon for purposes of transacting securities or other investments. you hereby understand and agree that we do not offer or provide tax, legal or investment advice and that you are responsible for consulting tax, legal, or financial professionals before acting on any information provided herein. the content provided herein is not intended as a promotion of any particular products or investments and neither the company nor any of its officers, directors, employees or representatives, in any way recommends or endorses any company, product, investment or opportunity which may be discussed herein. the education and information presented herein is intended for a general audience and does not purport to be, nor should it be construed as specific advice tailored to any individual. you are encouraged to discuss any opportunities with your attorney, accountant, financial professional or other advisors. your use of the information contained herein is at your own risk. the content is provided ‘as is’ and without warranties of any kind, either expressed or implied. the company disclaims all warranties, including, but not limited to, any implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title, or non-infringement. the company does not promise or guarantee any income or particular result from your use of the information contained herein.  the company assumes no liability or responsibility for errors or omissions in the information contained herein. the company may derive fees or other compensation as a result of purchases from service providers or vendors referenced in this material. the company will not be liable for any incidental, direct, indirect, punitive, actual, consequential, special, exemplary, or other damages, including, but not limited to, loss of revenue or income, pain and suffering, emotional distress, or similar damages, even if we have been advised of the possibility of such damages. in no event will the collective liability of the group to any party (regardless of the form of action, whether in contract, tort, or otherwise) exceed the greater of $100 or the amount you have paid to the company for the information, product or service out of which liability arose. under no circumstances will the company be liable for any loss or damage caused by your reliance on the information contained herein. it is your responsibility to evaluate the accuracy, completeness or usefulness of any information, opinion, advice or other content contained herein. please seek the advice of professionals, as appropriate, regarding the evaluation of any specific information, opinion, advice or other content. timothy sykes, a spokesperson of the company, communicates content and editorials on this site. statements regarding his, or other contributors’ “commitment” to share their personal investment strategies should not be construed or interpreted to require the disclosure of investments and strategies that are personal in nature, part of their estate or tax planning or immaterial to the scope and nature of the company’s educational philosophy. every effort has been made to accurately represent this product and it’s potential. even though this industry is one of the few where one can write their own check in terms of earnings, there is no guarantee that you will earn any money using the techniques and ideas in these materials. examples in these materials are not to be interpreted as a promise or guarantee of earnings. earning potential is entirely dependent on the person using our product, ideas, and techniques. we do not purport this as a “get rich scheme.” any claims made of actual earnings or examples of actual results can be verified upon request. your level of success in attaining the results claimed in our materials depends on the time you devote to the program, ideas, and techniques mentioned, your finances, knowledge and various skills. since these factors differ according to individuals, we cannot guarantee your success or income level. nor are we responsible for any of your actions. materials in our product and our website may contain information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements give our expectations or forecasts of future events. you can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. they use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a description of potential earnings or financial performance. any and all forward-looking statements here or on any of our sales material are intended to express our opinion of earnings potential. many factors will be important in determining your actual results and no guarantees are made that you will achieve results similar to ours or anybody else’s, in fact, no guarantees are made that you will achieve any results from our ideas and techniques in our material. comments are closed. about timothy sykes i became a self-made millionaire by the age of 21, trading thousands of penny stocks - yep you read that right, penny stocks. you may have heard ... read more tim's important resources penny stocking 101: how to get started with penny stocks which penny stocks to buy how to invest in penny stocks home about affiliates chatroom contact tim ** results may not be typical and may vary from person to person. making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. there are inherent risks involved with investing in the stock market, including the loss of your investment. past performance in the market is not indicative of future results. any investment is at your own risk. see terms of service here.. millionaire media 80 s.w. 8th street suite 2000 miami, florida 33130 united states (203) 980-1361 this is for information purposes only as millionaire media llc nor timothy sykes is registered as a securities broker-dealer or an investment adviser. no information herein is intended as securities brokerage, investment, tax, accounting or legal advice, as an offer or solicitation of an offer to sell or buy, or as an endorsement, recommendation or sponsorship of any company, security or fund. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes cannot and does not assess, verify or guarantee the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information, the suitability or profitability of any particular investment, or the potential value of any investment or informational source. the reader bears responsibility for his/her own investment research and decisions, should seek the advice of a qualified securities professional before making any investment, and investigate and fully understand any and all risks before investing. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes in no way warrants the solvency, financial condition, or investment advisability of any of the securities mentioned in communications or websites. in addition, millionaire media llc and timothy sykes accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this information. this information is not intended to be used as the sole basis of any investment decision, nor should it be construed as advice designed to meet the investment needs of any particular investor. past performance is not necessarily indicative of future returns. ©2007-2020 timothysykes™ all rights reserved. millionaire publishing llc terms of service and user agreement privacy policy (statement) earnings disclosure member agreement code of conduct what people are saying we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.✖