skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more earnings disclaimer hi. pat here. in launching this site, i’ve tried to be as transparent as possible while assuming that you are a reasonable person who uses common sense. to this end, i’ve published monthly income reports to show you the potential of an online business and exactly what i'm earning and from where. i assume you understand that if you launch an online business tomorrow, you will not be making six figures the first month or even four figures. i do not promote get quick rich schemes. building an online business, whether passive or active, takes time and a lot of hard work. i've put in the time and effort, and have been very fortunate. i'm sure you understand as much but, alas, common sense is apparently no longer enough in this world of ours and my lawyer is insisting the following language be published on the site. so here we go: monthly income reports published on smartpassiveincome.com represent the revenue earned by flynndustries, llc during the time and period in question according to each noted source in the report. these figures may be modified slightly to reflect returns, refunds, processed during the previous month, but only slightly. having said this, there is no guarantee that employing the same techniques, ideas, strategies, products or services i discuss will produce the same results for you. examples and strategies provided in articles, videos, podcasts, live broadcasts, and other content i produce are based on my personal experience except where indicated. they may or may not work for your specific business idea and are not to be interpreted as a guarantee or promise of earnings or success. the materials provided on smartpassiveincome.com are not to be interpreted as a “get rich quick” scheme in any way. launching a business online takes a lot of hard work. lots! your earning potential is entirely dependent upon you, and the then current online market. the claims made in the monthly income reports can be verified upon written request made via the contact option on the site. whether you are successful employing these techniques and strategies is dependent upon factors, including but not limited to, your skills, financial resources, marketing knowledge, business model, and time you devote to becoming an online success. because of this, i cannot guarantee your earnings level nor do i. apologies for the legal mumbo jumbo, but there are always a few people with unrealistic expectations. pat flynn want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less