home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog earn money by turning off the tv – ohmconnect review august 14, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment did you know that by turning off the tv for an hour could not only improve your health, make you more productive but also can make you money? i had no idea until recently so i wanted to share my ohmconnect review with you. this is a new program and if you’re in one of the qualifying cities, you’re in luck. let me explain how ohmconnect works. all you have to do is sign up for an ohmconnect account, link to your electric account and you’ll start receiving text messages of when the next ohm hour will take place. ohmconnect review this is probably the easiest way to make money from home i’ve ever found. i signed up on a wednesday and my account was fully activated through my electric company by friday. during my first ohm hour that i participated in, i got a text and email on a sunday at 4:45pm notifying me of the next ohm hour on monday from 6-7. this allowed me to prepare and make sure i’d be home from 6-7 to assure i could turn some appliances off. here is an example of the text i received: the easiest way to save money is by turning off your “big money” appliances. these can be your heat / air conditioning unit / stove / tv / microwave etc. all you have to do is unplug them or turn them off right before the ohm hour begins. we turn off the ac, tv and lights and go outside for a walk during these hours. it’s a great time to get out and get more exercise! (here’s a great workout if you want to try it during your next ohm hour!) as soon as the ohm hour is over, you’ve done all you can do! you can now turn your tv, ac, etc back on. it will take about two days until you can see your results. within those two days, ohmconnect will compare data with your utility company to see how much you actually saved during that hour. in two days, you’ll get an email that your results are ready! my overall thoughts of ohmconnect i have to admit, i totally geek out about this idea. the idea of making money while being able to help save the environment is exciting. i am a new(ish) user to this program so i hope to come back in a few months to update you with how much money we have made and any tips we’ve learned along the way. stay tuned or join me on this challenge! oh, and don’t forget about the ohmconnect bonuses to keep a streak, which are a huge money maker! streak points: you earn 5% more points for every ohmhour that you beat your forecasted use. once you hit a streak of 20, you will be earning double the points! this makes the program almost like a game to not break your streak! ohmconnect review – frequently asked questions how do i sign up? simply go to this page and create an account. you will create a username and password and then you’ll select what utility company you use. you will then connect your utility account by linking to your online utility account (don’t worry, i did it and it’s totally fine and safe!) this is necessary to do because ohm connect partners with our utility companies to determine when the demand for energy is high and they need our help. why would i use ohm connect? aside from making money, we are also allowing our energy companies to save energy at high demand moments instead of having to pay a dirty power plant to produce more power. we make money, everyone gets cleaner energy and the world is happier. i’d say that’s a win win for everyone! what states and electric companies are currently participating? • california utilities pge, sdge, sce • texas users part of smart meter texas • toronto users with toronto hydro if your state or electric company is not listed above, ohmconnect will not be able to read your meter. this company will hopefully be expanding to new areas soon though, so you may be next! how do i cash out and collect my earnings? ohmconnect allows you to be paid via the methods below: • cash out with paypal • amazon or target gift card • ohmconnect store credit (buy new energy efficient plugs, etc) • donate to a charity how much money will i make using ohm connect? this will obviously vary depending on how many ohm hours you participate in and how aggressive you are during your hour. on average, i’ve seen people earn about $150 a year but can be much much more. ohmconnect points to dollars ratio is 100 points=$1 (or basically 1 penny per point). is ohmconnect legit or a scam? it’s totally legit! i’ve been a member for a little while personally and i also did a lot of research before joining any type of programs like this. i’ve even researched the company on the better business bureau and found they are completely reputable. let me know if you have any tips or tricks on how to save more energy and make more money by leaving a comment below. xoxo livelifeactive filed under: other you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in