skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download easy google fonts by titanium themes details reviews installation support development description our new wordpress theme is almost ready! want to know when we launch? awesome! visit our website and enter your details and we will e-mail you as soon as we are ready 🙂 for a quick video demo please view the vimeo screencast. follow us on twitter! if you have found this plugin useful please donate here a simple and easy way to add custom google fonts to any wordpress theme without coding. this plugin integrates with the wordpress customizer so you can preview google fonts on your site in realtime. it’s compatible with any theme. it also allows you to create custom theme specific font controls in the admin settings area to control particular css selectors. once created, these custom font controls are instantly available in the customizer no coding required! what does this plugin do? this plugin allows you to take full control of your theme’s typography in any wordpress theme (no coding required). it allows you to choose from over 600+ google fonts and font variants to insert into your website without coding. allows you to preview font changes on your website in realtime using the wordpress customizer. create unlimited custom font controls: create custom font controls in the admin area that are instantly available in the customizer preview. allows you to preview what your theme will look like with the new google fonts before you save any changes. allows you to create your own font controls and rules in the admin area (no coding required). allows you to easily change the look of your website with the click of a button. automatically enqueues all stylesheets for your chosen google fonts. allows you to add google fonts to your theme without editing the themes main stylesheet which allows you to update your theme without losing your custom google fonts. plugin features live customizer preview: preview google fonts without refreshing the page in real time right in the wordpress customizer. over 600+ google fonts to choose from as well as a list of default system fonts. works with any wordpress theme. no coding required. automatic background updates: updates the google fonts list with the latest fonts automatically once. translation ready: mo and po files are included. seamless wordpress integration: uses the wordpress customizer for the live preview and has a white label admin area that looks like it is a part of wordpress. custom wordpress customizer control: one of a kind control only available with this plugin. who is this plugin ideal for? anyone who is looking for an easy way to use google fonts in their theme without coding. theme authors: you can use this plugin to add custom google webfonts to your theme. great for use on client projects or for use on existing websites. people that are happy with their theme but want an easy way to change the typography. anyone with basic knowledge of css selectors (in order to add custom font rules). developer features please note: we are currently working on producing in-depth documentation for theme developers which will be available shortly. cross browser and backwards browser compatible (tested in all major browsers). already tested and works in wordpress 4.1. uses action hooks and filters: for advanced integration. seamless wordpress integration: live preview is integrated into the wordpress customizer and the settings page follows core wordpress design guidelines. uses the wordpress options api to store and retrieve options. highly secure: checks user permissions, uses nonces and the wordpress security api. uses the screen options api and ajax to allow you to easily show/hide metaboxes on the admin page. rock solid, robust code: handcoded, tested and beautifully formatted in sublime text. uses wp ajax for an enhanced admin experience. fully commented source code. strong usability testing. enhanced performance: will only load a particular google font (using wp_enqueue_script()) once and uses the transients api in the admin area. credits and donation tag-it jquery plugin by alex ehlke. (used in the admin settings page) chip bennet’s oenology theme. alot of inspiration for best practices and wordpress customizer integration taken from this theme. otherwise, this plugin has been entirely written from scratch in sublime text by titanium themes with some code taken solely from wordpress core. if you have found this plugin useful please donate here screenshots plugin overview. before and after. live customizer font control preview - font styles tab. choose from over 600+ google fonts and preview them instantly without refreshing the page. change font color in realtime. create your own font controls for your theme. manage any css selector with your custom font controls. your custom control is instantly available for real time preview in the customizer. no coding required! view and manage all of your custom controls in the admin area. installation this section describes how to install the plugin and get it working. e.g. from your wordpress admin dashboard go to: plugins > add new search for “easy google fonts” locate the “easy google fonts” plugin by titanium themes and click the install now button. activate the plugin labeled “easy google fonts”. you’re done! faq for a quick video demo please view the vimeo screencast. reviews our most recommended font plugin organic themes december 4, 2019 we recommend this plugin constantly to organic themes users. it's an excellent solution for changing the fonts on your website. plus, it's all accomplished within the wordpress customizer, and we love any solution that uses that uses the native customizer! too slow america 1st roofing & builders, inc. november 7, 2019 loads well and convenient to use, but absolutely kills page speed. ended up with omgf. doesn’t work kreatur august 28, 2019 maybe this worked once, but right now changes i make to fonts don't reflect on frontpage. i gave up on it and went the fonts.google.com way. very nice plugin goabilio june 3, 2019 thank you for such a great google fonts plugin. i'm using it all the way. awesome plugin! archimidism (akisthemes.com) october 26, 2018 guys you have done a great job! i would like to integrate the plugin with my themes however is there any developer documentation? cheers! archimidism so helpful and simple plugin! billy miligan october 13, 2018 so helpful and simple plugin! it's really help me out with few websites where i needed custom fonts. this is really nice work! thank you! read all 202 reviews contributors & developers “easy google fonts” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors sunny johal amit kayasth - titanium themes “easy google fonts” has been translated into 7 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “easy google fonts” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.4.4 – wordpress 5.0 compatibility update updated webfonts.json with the latest google fonts. last minor update before major rewrite. 1.4.3 – wordpress 4.8 compatibility update updated webfonts.json with the latest google fonts. updated includes class-egf-frontend.php to only output styles if there is a selector. 1.4.2 – wordpress 4.7 compatibility update fixed issue where the font controls weren’t saving in wordpress 4.7. updated the font list. 1.4.1 – urgent update fixed issue where the plugin wasn’t taking effect for screen sizes under 700px 1.4.0 – plugin update now automatically removes white spaces added to the api key on the settings page. started rewriting part of the code for eventual media query support. 1.3.9 – stylesheet update updated the appearance in the customizer for the new changes in wordpress 3.4 1.3.7 – important update addressed potential security issue on the plugin admin page – hardened security and escaped any attributes passed via the url throughout the plugin. now added support for arabic and telegu and devangari subsets. updated json decode when parsing fonts for servers running an older version of php. 1.3.6 – updated stylesheet enqueue addressed issue on certain servers where a 400 error was being returned when making a http request to google. 1.3.5 – changed stylesheet enqueue removed esc_url_raw() as it was causing a 404 error when fetching the stylesheet from google. 1.3.4 – customizer js api update implemented font search to make it easier to browse google fonts (using the chosen js plugin). implemented border controls. implemented border radius controls. completely rewritten the control javascript to utilise the new customizer js api (using backbone and underscore templates). preview performance enhancement: completely rewritten the preview javascript to utilise the new customizer js api. performance update: each font control now only registers one setting per control. performance update: the functionality for each font control is lazy loaded to increase the customizer load speed. all settings for each font controls are handled by json objects (removed any hidden inputs and json2 library dependancy). 1.3.3 – wordpress 4.1+ update added patch for wordpress 4.1 the code is going to be rewritten in backbone for future releases. 1.3.2 – big update now combining all of the font requests from google fonts in a single http request. introducing panels: a new customizer feature in wordpress 4.0 that makes it easier to manage alot of font controls. our plugin creates a new panel called typography. google fonts are now separated into the following categories to make them easier to navigate: serif, sans serif, display, handwriting, monospace. now the plugin keeps font state when user switches page in customizer. now there is a separate section for default and custom font controls. improved the help tab in the admin area to help people obtain a google api key. synchronised force styles between the manage font controls and the edit font controls screen fixed issue with the font weights not showing up for the customizer control. the plugin now checks and handles occurances where theme developers have removed all default controls. 1.3.1 changed order of style outputs futher ui improvements 1.3 critical update: made the plugin wordpress 3.9 compatible performance tuned the plugin removed recursion during runtime. updated local font list 1.2.5 performance enhancement for older browsers implemented. safe to upgrade. 1.2 big update: complete rewrite of plugin new controls: background color, margin, padding and display. added subset support. introduced a large amount of actions and filters for theme developers. big performance enhancement. the old version used to register 32 settings per control, this is now down to 3. lightning fast customizer loading times, under 1 second. rewrote the plugin into classes and views to make it more managable for future development. rewrote the plugin into classes. mo/po language files now included. = 1.1.1= * 3.8 admin integration 1.1 full google fonts transient integration. 1.0 first plugin release. meta version: 1.4.4 last updated: 8 months ago active installations: 300,000+ wordpress version: 5.2 or higher tested up to: 5.2.5 languages: see all 8 close croatian, english (canada), english (uk), english (us), german, portuguese (portugal), romanian, and spanish (spain). translate into your language tags: google fonts wordpressgoogle webfontstypographywebfonts advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 179 4 stars 6 3 stars 2 2 stars 4 1 star 11 contributors sunny johal amit kayasth - titanium themes support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 2 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.