special easyazon 4 launch pricing let easyazon 4 help you earn more and save you time! easyazon 4 is a powerful wordpress plugin software that can help you make more commissions and save you a lot of time in the process. secure order form developer site use rights use on unlimited personal websites use on unlimited client websites use on unlimited websites to flip bonus 1: the ultimate amazon affiliate guide (completely brand new material) $47 value bonus 2: azontheme amazon wordpress theme with developer rights - $47 value bonus 3: amatheme amazon wordpress theme with developer rights - $47 value regularly $67 30 day money back guarantee secure order form multi site use rights use on unlimited personal websites bonus 1: the ultimate amazon affiliate guide (completely brand new material) $47 value bonus 2: the azontheme amazon affiliate wordpress theme with developer rights - $47 value bonus 3: the amatheme amazon affiliate wordpress theme with developer rights - $47 value regularly $47 30 day money back guarantee easyazon customer testimonials your complete amazon affiliate link tool for wordpress with the easyazon wordpress plugin you'll be able to quickly create high conversion amazon affiliate links faster and easier than ever before. here's a quick look at what it can do... easyazon 4.0 wordpress plugin how to save a lot of time using easyazon 4 control your affiliate links without fussing with code control your affiliate links through site defaults or on an individual link by link basis. complete control without knowing how to code. easily set links to open in a new window when clicked, apply a no follow attribute, cloak for seo purposes, display a product pop up, prompt a user to add an item to their shopping cart and automatically localize affiliate links. how to make more money using easyazon 4 automatically generate amazon commissions from international traffic easyazon 4 has a built in automatic link localizer that will take your amazon affiliate link and display a link for the amazon locale based on who is visiting your website - huge commission booster! you can create affiliate links or enable link localization for any country amazon has an affiliate program in including: united states, canda, china, france, germany, india*, italy, japan, spain and united kingdom. (*must be resident at this time, but this may change) sign up for other amazon affiliate programs (free to join and you can use the same website you used before) to participate in link localization. literally check one single box in the easyazon 4 settings to automatically localize your affiliate links and cash in on wasted international traffic 73,653 international visitors from one website (over 25% traffic from the top 10 countries alone that could be generating commissions with link localization turned on) enable product pop ups to attract user attention and get more affiliate clicks! easyazon 4 has a product pop up solution built in that can be triggered on a site wide or individual link basis. pop up scripts grab users attention which can lead to more amazon affiliate link clicks and more commissions for you. when a user hovers over one of your affiliate links with product pop up enabled this happens. set affiliate links to add to users shopping cart (more time to earn commission) if a user clicks through your affiliate link and adds an item to their shopping cart you have an extra 89 days to get a commission if they buy the item they added. you can enable or disable "add to cart" in easyazon 4 for individual links, as well as, toggle it on or off for your entire website as well. we're also bringing even more value to easyazon with these 3 extra bonuses! ... bonus 1 - ultimate amazon guide - $47 value this is like no course you've seen before when it comes to making money with the amazon affiliate program this course is completely up to date when it comes to building an amazon affiliate website that actually makes money. with this version, not only do you walked through everything from buying a domain name and setting up your website, but it also includes the best tools to use for keyword research, link building and much more. yes, i mentioned link building! with every year holding new updates from google, you will need the best link building plan out there, and while it may seem that strategized link building is dead, it's actually completely alive and well. it's simply different now (and completely white hat). in module 7, you don't just learn the best and most legit link building strategies out there now, but you will get tons more info on driving traffic to your site. with over 13,000 words, images, and videos, this bonus is sure to help you on your way to a moneymaking website. here's what you'll get in this ultimate guide: module 1 - introduction module 2 – choosing your website topic module 3 – setting up your website module 4 – wordpress basics module 5 – setting up amazon associates accounts module 6 – creating content for your amazon review site module 7 – getting traffic to your site module 8 - maximizing your amazon associate earnings bonus 2 - azontheme amazon wordpress theme - $47 value azon wordpress theme 2.0 time tested amazon wordpress theme updated to azon theme 2.0 and built for blog or product review style websites utilize the featured image rotating area to highlight your high commission content built in amazon review system for users to review products between 0 and 5 stars. youtube video integration for featured rotating widget area - great for video product review articles built in social media integration for blog posts helps you drive more social media traffic to your website. azontheme 2.0 wordpress theme azontheme 2.0 is the successor to the original amazon wordpress theme that i used to generate tens of thousands of dollars of commissions. the azontheme layout and overall feature set of the theme with built in review system, featured rotating area (with youtube video integration) and built in advertising system was designed to maximize commissions on amazon's affiliate program. the site logo, navigation and sidebar elements are all easily changed within the backend system where you can also change the theme colors and modify the tab widget system. great for product review articles and a proven time tested wordpress theme. bonus 3 - the amatheme amazon wordpress theme - $47 value made for amazon affiliates by amazon affiliates! brand new never before seen amazon wordpress theme prominent featured image rotating area allows you to highlight your most valuable commission generating content built in amazon review system for users to review products between 0 and 5 stars. comparison system allows you to compare up to 4 different products, their features and prompt users to buy the product you recommend. mobile responsive technology allows the theme to automatically adjust the width of the website based on if the user is on a mobile device, table or desktop brand new wordpress amazon theme amatheme was built to help you highlight your most valuable commission generating content. first we added a prominent featured rotating display area that you can use to promote your best content. next your product comparison area will be listed. this section will help your visitors decide which product they should buy between the various competing products within your niche. after that your product review posts are displayed. outside the content area we support a user configurable sidebar and header advertising area. amatheme is mobile responsive - works on mobile devices, tablets and desktops we've built amatheme with updated code practices while incorporating in the ability to do mobile responsive display of your website. this allows your amazon website running amatheme to look great on every mobile device, tablet, laptop and desktop. the theme will automatically adjust the width of the website based on the resolution of the device accessing the website. easy to use visual theme editor. change the color of your theme without learning css! amatheme has a visual theme editor that allows you to make changes to your theme. you can make changes to the look of your website and instantly see the difference all on one screen. this means less time messing with settings and more time for you to create your great website. the visual editor is so easy to use there are no technical skills required for you to pick new colors, change your logo or update your website information get easyazon 4 today to start saving time and making more money from your amazon affiliate links! secure order form developer site use rights use on unlimited personal websites use on unlimited client websites use on unlimited websites to flip bonus 1: the ultimate amazon affiliate guide (completely brand new material) $47 value bonus 2: azontheme amazon wordpress theme with developer rights - $47 value bonus 3: amatheme amazon wordpress theme with developer rights - $47 value regularly $67 30 day money back guarantee secure order form multi site use rights use on unlimited personal websites bonus 1: the ultimate amazon affiliate guide (completely brand new material) $47 value bonus 2: the azontheme amazon affiliate wordpress theme with developer rights - $47 value bonus 3: the amatheme amazon affiliate wordpress theme with developer rights - $47 value regularly $47 30 day money back guarantee 30 day money back guarantee! your purchase comes with a full 100% money back guarantee. if for any reason, you are not satisfied with your purchase, we will refund all your money back with no questions asked. simply put, we don't deserve to accept your money unless you are completely satisfied with the product. we are taking all the risk for you and you have nothing to lose! get easyazon pro v4 today! terms of service | privacy policy | earnings disclaimer | disclaimer | affiliate program disclaimer: this site and the products and services offered on this site are not associated, affiliated, endorsed, or sponsored by amazon, nor have they been reviewed tested or certified by amazon. every effort has been made to accurately represent our product and it's potential. any claims made of actual earnings or examples of actual results can be verified upon request. the examples used are exceptional results, and don't apply to the average purchaser and are not intended to represent or guarantee that anyone will achieve the same or similar results. each individuals success depends on his or her background, dedication, desire and motivation. as with any business endeavor, there is an inherent risk of loss of capital and there is no guarantee that you will earn any money. clickbank is a registered trademark of keynetics inc., a delaware corporation. easyazon.com is not affiliated with keynetics inc. in any way, nor does keynetics inc. sponsor or approve any easyazon.com product. keynetics inc. expresses no opinion as to the correctness of any of the statements made by easyazon.com in the materials on this web page. clickbank reserves the right to change their policies and procedures at any time, in any way without notice. copyright 2019 - easyazon - all rights reserved