can't get enough treehugger? sign up now and have it sent straight to your inbox. daily and weekly newsletters available. email address email is required newsletters the daily newsletter the weekly newsletter subscribe × green food eat your fruits and vegetables: new dirty dozen and clean fifteen list released design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows sustainability with sass design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows about contact newsletters advertisement living green food eat your fruits and vegetables: new dirty dozen and clean fifteen list released melissa breyer melissabreyer march 25, 2020 cc by 2.0 arthur rutowski here is is the 2020 ranking of pesticide residue on produce. in this year’s annual shopper’s guide to pesticides in produce, environmental working group (ewg) found that once again strawberries were the fresh produce item most likely to be contaminated with pesticide residues. and that's even after they are picked, rinsed in the field and washed at home. previous years have found that, based on usda data, more than one-third of the strawberry samples tested contained 10 or more pesticide residues and breakdown products. one strawberry sample was riddled with 22 pesticide residues. (read about all the problems with conventionally grown strawberries here.) thankfully, we can opt for organic strawberries, as well as organic versions of all 12 produce items that the health and consumer watchdog has listed in their dirty dozen list for 2020. and since organic produce may be more expensive or hard to find everywhere, ewg also makes the brilliant move to list those items with the least pesticide residue as well so that we know what conventional produce is ok to consume. for example, they found that fewer than 2 percent of conventional avocados tested positive for pesticides. so, buy organic strawberries if you can, but worry less about buying organic avocados. “for many americans, choosing an all-organic diet is not possible," says dr. philip landrigan, a pediatrician and epidemiologist. "so using ewg’s guide can help give consumers the tools to provide their families with a mix of both conventional and organic fruits and veggies without the pesticide punch.” given that we are in the midst of a pandemic, it may be just enough to get any fresh produce – but if you have choices, let this guide help. also, as ewg points out, it is important to know that there is no evidence people can be exposed [to the coronavirus] through food. the spread pattern for coronavirus is quite different from those of foodborne pathogens like salmonella and e.coli. that is why, even though the risks of covid-19 are serious, consumers should continue eating plenty of healthy fruits and vegetables, whether they are conventional or organic. all of ewg's analysis is based on the most recent tests by the usda. you can read more about the health concerns around pesticides and other key findings at ewg. the clean fifteen for 2020 here are the conventional items that had the least amount of pesticide residues; number one being the least contaminated. eat these with abandon. 1. avocados 2. sweet corn* 3. pineapple 4. onions 5. papaya* 6. sweet peas (frozen) 7. eggplants 8. asparagus 9. cauliflower 10. cantaloupes 11. broccoli 12. mushrooms 13. cabbage 14. honeydew melon 15. kiwi *some sweet corn and papaya in the u.s. is grown from genetically modified seeds; so if you want to avoid that, purchase organic varieties. the dirty dozen for 2020 here are the conventional items to buy organic when you can, number one being the most contaminated. 1. strawberries 2. spinach 3. kale 4. nectarines 5. apples 6. grapes 7. peaches 8. cherries 9. pears 10. tomatoes 11. celery 12. potatoes if you would like to check the ranking of any of your favorites not listed above, you can see the full list here. march 26, 2020: this story has been updated with current information; the previous title has been changed as well. fruits & vegetables health organic agriculture pesticides toxins eat your fruits and vegetables: new dirty dozen and clean fifteen list released here is is the 2020 ranking of pesticide residue on produce. related content on treehugger.com 9 fruits and vegetables with a poisonous side 6 vegetables that are healthier cooked than raw 8 things this food-poisoning expert won’t eat how to avoid getting sick from e. coli regrow these 6 fruits from kitchen scraps 20 things to do with chickpeas 8 fruits and vegetables you should try roasting whole which of these mushroom could kill you? facebook twitter pinterest please enable javascript to view the comments. the diy kitchen 8 odd things you can candy 10 recipes for diy dried foods, from kale chips to rose hips how to make your own flavor-infused sea salt 7 simple recipes for preserving edible flowers most popular right now the top us states for homesteading, tiny homes, and off-grid living common household products that can kill the coronavirus 8 natural & homemade insecticides: save your garden without killing the earth alley cat laneway house looks a lot bigger than it is laundry in a time of covid-19 what's hot on facebook teach your child how to read a paper map 20 things to do with chickpeas this pandemic is changing how my family eats cdc lists oil of lemon eucalyptus as comparable to deet for mosquitoes about contact newsletters rss privacy policy copyright © 2020 narrative content group. all rights reserved