main navigation wordpress.com products features resources plans & pricing log in get started menu blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise overview themes plugins google apps support news expert tips navigation menu close menu get started add a new site › sign up › log in › about plans & pricing products blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise features overview themes plugins google apps resources news support expert tips everything you need for a powerful, profitable site. create an ecommerce website with wordpress.com get started with ecommerce wordpress.com offers a full range of ecommerce options, from one-click payment buttons to a fully customizable online store. start taking payments in seconds whether you want to sell baked goods to your neighbors or accept donations for a local organization, wordpress.com makes taking payments a breeze. our simple payments button allows you to take credit or debit card payments from any page with minimal setup. learn more about simple payments get started create an online store wordpress.com gives you all the tools you need to publish content and sell products from the same platform. create a powerful online store and install more plugins to help you customize products, attract customers, and increase your sales. learn more about stores get started sell anything, anywhere try the most flexible wordpress ecommerce website builder on the market, powering more stores than any other platform. sell everything from physical goods to memberships to subscription boxes, and deliver it up the street or across an ocean. with wordpress.com ecommerce, you have the freedom to create a beautiful store that meets your needs. the only limit is your imagination. learn more about ecommerce get started choose your starting point quick and easy payments c$10 per month, billed yearly /month, billed yearly best for bloggers build a powerful website with the ability to accept payments or donations with simple payments. also includes advanced design tools, lots of space for media files, and the ability to further monetize your site with ads. get started with wordpress.com premium. start with premium multi-purpose business site c$33 per month, billed yearly /month, billed yearly best for small businesses add an online store to your business website with the ability to sell and ship physical products. also includes installation of custom plugins and themes, real-time one-on-one support, google analytics, and 200 gb storage. get started with wordpress.com business. start with business ecommerce experience c$59 per month, billed yearly /month, billed yearly best for dedicated ecommerce sell products or services with this powerful, all‑in‑one online store experience. this plan includes premium integrations and is extendable, so it’ll grow with you as your business grows. start with ecommerce themes features blog stats vip terms of service privacy policy language: en an automattic mambo