learn teaching resources university resources high school resources about us about us partnerships careers give feedback my account give feedback my account learn economics, understand your world. top courses and series see all courses and series principles of economics: microeconomics course principles of economics: macroeconomics course everyday economics series mastering econometrics course money skills course women in economics series econ duel series development economics course most popular videos search video library avengers: the story of globalization introduction to microeconomics the demand curve zimbabwe and hyperinflation: who wants to be a trillionaire? the hockey stick of human prosperity when in india, get a haircut indifference curves game of theories: the great recession public goods and asteroid defense cowen/tabarrok: is education signaling or skill building? introduction to the solow model price ceilings how expert are expert stock pickers? coronavirus canceled class? teachers helping teachers join the community new episode: women in economics: janet yellen in this video, former fed chair ben bernanke and uc berkeley's christina romer present janet yellen's life and her contributions to policy and academia. yellen is best known for being the first woman to head the federal reserve in its over 100 year history, but she is also a renowned economist, making significant contributions to several different economic fields. watch now! teacher resources: new curriculum: globalization, robots, and you students have important decisions to make about their educations and careers - wouldn’t it be nice if they better understood the forces of globalization and automation first? this five-day curriculum blends micro, macro, and personal finance to connect the forces of globalization and automation with your students’ lives. see curriculum new course: mastering econometrics if you're looking to untangle cause and effect in a complex world, then econometrics is what you seek. join mit professor josh angrist and learn to master the econometrics "furious five": random assignment, regression, instrumental variables, regression discontinuity designs, and differences-in-differences methods. see course teaching micro? check out econinbox, our weekly email chock full of news articles, videos, and more. we pair them with classroom activities and send them in sync with your syllabus. learn more we're hiring! register login terms of use follow us twitter youtube facebook terms & privacy