the library of economics and liberty econlib articles econlog econtalk encyclopedia videos books guides the white man's disease? by scott sumner with all of the controversy regarding president trump's use of the term "china virus" (which he recently discontinued), people have overlooked the extent to which the epidemic has recently gone from being primarily an east asian problem to a western problem. you may have seen graphs showing incidence by country, using circles of varying sizes. but those show cumulative totals, not current incidence. the following graph shows active cases: east asia and south asia combined (afghanistan to japan) have roughly... 35 read more econlog by scott sumner a battle fought on a million fronts read further » like most people, i find it difficult to wrap my mind around complex issues. it's easiest to boil it down to one or two key factors, and focus on those perspectives. but that doesn't always work. consider global warming. if we are going to address... featured comment join the discussion » kurt, i assure you that "accuracy" has rarely been trump's motive for public statements. he tries to win votes by demonizing unpopular groups of people. china's government deserves a lot of blame, which i've done in this blog. but so does the us government, which has also put out a lot of false propaganda, and also tried to cover up the problem. "china" is a country with 1.4 billion people; the blame should be put on xi jinping, and those around him. asian-americans are being beaten up because of all of this nationalist propaganda. scott sumner , march 26, 3:42 pm. browse by topic browse by author search econlog rss feeds blogger bios mar 27 2020 microeconomics capital homogeneity in the time of covid-19 by david henderson michael thomas, an economist friend at creighton university in omaha, nebraska, has made an interesting conjecture (i have edited it slightly): what has surprised me is how quickly people have converted production into alternative products (for example, local distilleries making sanitizer--extremely homo... 0 read more mar 27 2020 economic education toilet paper wars; peace at last? by sarah skwire last week, my kids made fun of me for having plenty of tp in the house, and made fun of other shoppers for buying lots of tp. i suggested to them that, with more people at home, we’d probably go through a lot more tp and other essentials, and that with store supplies uncertain, they should learn to understand why i, ... 0 read more mar 26 2020 economics of health care fda shouldn't keep safe drugs off the market by david henderson enter covid-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus, sars-cov-2. there are no proven therapies to treat an infection of that virus. one of the most promising candidates is gilead sciences ’ remdesivir, which has shown some potential in treating other coronaviruses, such as sars and mers. due to its use in treat... 17 read more from the article archives: lemieux on "we" oct 6 2014 featured article the vacuity of the political "we" by pierre lemieux "a 'social welfare function' representing a set of 'social indifference curves' belongs not to 'we' but to whoever writes down, or imagines, the preferences of 'society.'" one can barely read a newspaper or listen to a politician's speech without hearing the standard "we as a society" or its derivatives. "you kn... read more mar 26 2020 austrian economics a battle fought on a million fronts by scott sumner like most people, i find it difficult to wrap my mind around complex issues. it's easiest to boil it down to one or two key factors, and focus on those perspectives. but that doesn't always work. consider global warming. if we are going to address that issue in the most cost effective way it will probably involve: ... 11 read more mar 26 2020 econlib resource tips for online teaching by amy willis we know many of you- teachers and parents, too!- suddenly find yourselves thrust into the world of online teaching and learning. we're trying to do everything we can to make that transition as smooth as possible. here's a link to the special edition of our e-newsletter that went out earlier this week. it i... 0 read more mar 26 2020 behavioral economics and rationality open borders: now do you see what we're mis... by bryan caplan in open borders, i never claim that immigration restrictions make life in the first world bad. i don't try to scare people into supporting more immigration, a la, "without more immigrants, we're doomed." what i claim, rather, is that immigration is a massive missed opportunity. while life is fine the way it is (... 5 read more mar 25 2020 cross-country comparisons the white man's disease? by scott sumner with all of the controversy regarding president trump's use of the term "china virus" (which he recently discontinued), people have overlooked the extent to which the epidemic has recently gone from being primarily an east asian problem to a western problem. you may have seen graphs showing incidence by country, usi... 35 read more mar 25 2020 incentives why the stimulus bill as written will keep unemplo... by david henderson it will increase weekly unemployment benefits by $600 and keep the unemployment rate high. the economic aid package that senate democrats are currently negotiating with the white house includes a significant expansion of unemployment benefits for americans who have lost jobs or been furloughed due to the co... 9 read more mar 25 2020 economic methods what scientific consensus? by david henderson over at marginal revolution this morning, tyler cowen writes: for instance, some scientists have told me that at some point, if the virus is widespread enough, there is no choice but to let it burn its way through the population (not saying we are there yet, probably not according to the consensus of experts... 29 read more mar 25 2020 books: reviews and suggested readings it’s the thought that counts: a review of stephe... by hans eicholz click here to read part 1 of this review. the davies difference: elite buy-in the first part of this review ended with the observation that what deirdre mccloskey sees as vital for the kind of “wealth explosion” that she and davies discuss is the reorientation of human perception away from an ea... 0 read more mar 25 2020 regulation how to hobble the economy and how to revive it by david henderson while people like me are fortunate that we work mainly in front of a computer and can do so at home, the majority of californians are not so lucky. other retailers are shut down, and those include bars and restaurants, with restaurants (mercifully) allowed to do take-out. governors of illinois, new york, louisiana, pen... 7 read more mar 25 2020 fiscal policy scott sumner and arnold kling: macro responses to ... by amy willis https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fmg-ks-ftcm here are links to some of the pieces referred to in our conversation: scott alexander on masks at slate star codex arnold kling nonbank liquidity now, solvency later bring on the masks and gloves! scarves now, masks later scott sumner the... 0 read more mar 25 2020 politics and economics covid19, the right and the left by alberto mingardi alvaro vargas llosa has a great piece on covid19 and partisan politics. the virus is "ideologically ambidextrous and hermaphrodite". the virus "disfavors migrations" and "home confinement may skyrocket the birth rate, strengthening, or at least slowing the erosion of, family values." so is it a situation that will reso... 3 read more mar 25 2020 economics of health care who are all the people dying of flu? by bryan caplan many people are baffled to hear that tens of thousands of americans still die of flu every year. the cdc estimate for 2017-2018 is 61,000, markedly more than die in all auto accidents. yet i've never heard of any specific person dying of flu. so who are these people? the answer, roughly, is: the elderly. her... 5 read more mar 24 2020 cost-benefit analysis cost benefit analysis of flattening the curve by david henderson eline van den broek-altenburg, an assistant professor at the larner college of medicine, university of vermont, and adam atherly, a professor and director of the center for health services research at the larner college of medicine, university of vermont have produced a short analysis titled "economic cost of flattenin... 8 read more more entries search econlib search more options the library of economics and liberty econlib home page articles econlog econtalk cee books videos guides search about econlib contact us enter your email address to subscribe to our monthly newsletter: subscribe contact us privacy policy copyright @ 1999-2019 liberty fund, inc. all rights reserved adamsmithworks liberty fund, inc. online library of liberty law and liberty