welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog why this mit professor wants to help everyone learn basic economics published on: aug 04, 2017 by jonathan gruber 5347 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this post originally ran on mit’s office of digital learning blog and is authored by jonathan gruber, ford professor of economics, mit. i’m excited to announce the launch of a new course on edx that covers introductory microeconomics. i’ve wanted to do a course like this for years. i have always found economics provides a terrific way to think about the world. economics principles explain so much of what... read more about why this mit professor wants to help everyone learn basic economics get college ready with 8 great edx courses published on: jun 15, 2017 by sara reich 4835 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post if you’re starting college soon, it’s important to make sure you’re prepared for your classes by refreshing your knowledge of the fundamentals or learning something new. explore these 8 prep and introductory courses on edx to kick-start or restart your college career! edx welcomes the world bank group published on: jan 10, 2017 by alice randall 5643 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are honored to announce that world bank group, a vital source of financial and technical assistance to developing countries around the world, has joined edx. the world bank group (wbg) is dedicated to innovating the way knowledge is shared around the world and, in 2016, it launched the open learning campus to provide access to all of its learning offerings and expertise. “the vision... read more about edx welcomes the world bank group gain control of your personal finances and make better financial decisions published on: apr 12, 2016 by terrance odean 7387 views 2 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this is a guest post from terrance odean the rudd family foundation professor of finance at the haas school of business at the university of california, berkeley. when i was growing up, there were no personal finance courses. many people struggled financially. but the financial decisions they faced were simpler than the financial decisions most americans face today. for example, my parents didn’t have any credit... read more about gain control of your personal finances and make better financial decisions psychology, engineering and economics. courses starting soon on edx! published on: feb 19, 2016 by monil shah 6326 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn how space missions are designed from a former astronaut, the threat the internet poses to our security and privacy or gain insights into the social networks we use everyday. edx offers courses from the world’s top universities to help you gain the skills and knowledge you desire. find the course for you and enroll today. happy learning! become a successful leader in tech, finance and more published on: feb 01, 2016 by monil shah 5352 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post did you know that for bill gates it’s literally not worth his time to pick up a $100 bill? it’s true! according to a fun fact from 2013, with a return of 6% and a worth of about $72 billion, he earns about $115 every second he is alive. wealth-x, a global leader in wealth intelligence recently published its report on the top wealthiest people... read more about become a successful leader in tech, finance and more marketing, physics and economics. courses starting in 2016 from edx! published on: dec 18, 2015 by justine goulart 6466 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn about marketing’s role within an organization, issac newton’s three laws of motion, how to preserve our tropical ecosystems or how to apply calculus and economics to real world problems. as the year winds down and you look forward to celebrating the holidays with family and friends, we hope you will take some time to explore edx courses, especially those starting in the new year. start 2016 smart and... read more about marketing, physics and economics. courses starting in 2016 from edx! music, business, and apps. exciting courses starting soon! published on: nov 13, 2015 by justine goulart 4962 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post whether you want to learn about cultures in south asia, design effective computer systems, understand your rights or lend your ear to 18th century musical performances, edx has the course that will help you gain knowledge and learn new skills. explore edx courses and start learning today! wall street to main street: build your finance knowledge published on: oct 06, 2015 by rachel lapal 7733 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post do you understand how money works in the world? are you well equipped to make sound financial decisions both personally and professionally? with finance being a part of everyday life, having financial literacy enables you to confidently manage and understand your money. according to the consumer financial literacy survey in 2013, more than 75% of u.s. adults agree they could benefit from additional advice and... read more about wall street to main street: build your finance knowledge dracula, macroeconomics, and superheroes on edx this week! published on: jul 31, 2015 by rebecca.sacks 4331 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post whether you are looking to pick up a new book for the end of summer, understand the global economy, or learn more about your favorite superheroes, edx has the course for you. check out these new offerings starting this week and enroll in one that interests you today! mukta ghorpadey page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close