wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » articles by: editorial staff how to fix wordpress login page refreshing and redirecting issue posted on march 10th, 2020 by editorial staff we often get messages from our users that their wordpress login page keeps refreshing and redirecting. this locks them out of the wordpress admin area, and they are unable to work on their website. login issues can be caused by various different errors such as… read more » how to code a website (complete beginner’s guide) posted on march 9th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to learn how to code a website? behind the scenes, most website code contains html, css, and javascript. as a beginner, learning these programming languages (even at a beginner level) requires hours of studying and practice. the good news for business owners… read more » 7 best free autoresponder tools of 2020 (pros & cons compared) posted on march 6th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking for the best free autoresponder tools to start sending automated emails? the good news is that there are lots of ways to get started without paying. you don’t need to delay building and growing your email list until your site starts making… read more » how to properly add google adsense to your wordpress site posted on march 5th, 2020 by editorial staff google adsense is one of the most popular ways to monetize your website. it allows you to automatically sell your website’s ad space to advertisers and get paid. adsense is one of the easiest way to start making money online with your website. in this… read more » how to create a separate page for blog posts in wordpress posted on march 3rd, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to create a separate page for blog posts in wordpress? by default, wordpress displays your blog posts on the homepage. however, if you are making a business website or simply want to customize your homepage, then you may want a separate page… read more » how to use cookie retargeting in wordpress to show custom on-site messages posted on march 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to use cookie retargeting in wordpress? cookie retargeting is the secret tool already used by many of the most popular websites. it allows you to show custom on-site messages to your users based on their past behavior which helps you boost sales.… read more » 61 best free wordpress blog themes for 2020 posted on february 28th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking for a free wordpress blog theme for your website? there are thousands of free blog themes for wordpress making it harder for beginners to choose one for their sites. these blog themes are further divided into different niches and categories. in this… read more » how to easily create a multilingual wordpress site posted on february 27th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to translate your wordpress site in multiple languages? wordpress powers more than 35% of all websites on the internet. many of them serve non-english or multilingual audiences. in this article, we will show you how to easily create a multilingual wordpress site.… read more » how to enable maintenance mode for woocommerce posted on february 26th, 2020 by editorial staff recently some of our readers asked us if it’s possible to put a woocommerce store in maintenance mode without affecting other parts of a website? the good news is that it’s not only possible, but it’s also very easy to do. in this article, we’ll… read more » wordpress vs joomla vs drupal – which one is better? posted on february 25th, 2020 by editorial staff while wordpress powers more than 35% of all websites on the internet, it’s not the only open-source content management system (cms) in the market. there are other popular software options available like joomla and drupal. all three of them have a lot in common and… read more » « 1 2 3 4 … 215 » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.