wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » articles by: editorial staff wordpress vs joomla vs drupal – which one is better? posted on february 25th, 2020 by editorial staff while wordpress powers more than 35% of all websites on the internet, it’s not the only open-source content management system (cms) in the market. there are other popular software options available like joomla and drupal. all three of them have a lot in common and… read more » how to create a contract agreement form with digital signatures in wordpress posted on february 24th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to add a contract agreement form to your wordpress website that people can e-sign? typically to get contracts signed, you either have to manually print / scan the signature, or pay for an expensive third-party e-sign service. wouldn’t it be nice if… read more » 7 best countdown plugins for wordpress (easy to use) posted on february 21st, 2020 by editorial staff readers often ask us how to add a countdown timer to their website. countdown timers are a great way to build anticipation, excitement, and create fomo effect on your website. there are lots of different countdown plugins out there that let you create a countdown… read more » how to install a wordpress plugin – step by step for beginners posted on february 20th, 2020 by editorial staff after installing wordpress, the first thing every beginner needs to learn is how to install a wordpress plugin. in simple words, wordpress plugins are like apps for your wordpress website. they allow you to add new features to wordpress like a contact form, slideshow, shopping… read more » 7 best free ecommerce platforms for 2020 (compared) posted on february 19th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking for the best free ecommerce platform to build your ecommerce website? in the early days, ecommerce platforms used to cost thousands which kept many small businesses from creating an online store. luckily now there are several popular ecommerce platforms that offer free… read more » how to create custom post types in wordpress posted on february 18th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to learn how to easily create custom post types in wordpress? custom post types transform a wordpress site from a blogging platform into a powerful content management system (cms). basically, they allow you to go beyond posts and pages by creating different… read more » what’s coming in wordpress 5.4 (features and screenshots) posted on february 17th, 2020 by editorial staff wordpress 5.4 is scheduled to be released on march 31, 2020. it will be the first major release of the year and will ship with some significant improvements. we’ve been following the development closely and testing the first beta to try out new features that… read more » 15 best and most popular cms platforms in 2020 (compared) posted on february 14th, 2020 by editorial staff are you wondering what cms platform to use for building your website? a cms (content management system) platform lets you easily create a website without understanding any code (at least for most of them). there are lots of cms options available, which means you might… read more » how to view the mobile version of wordpress sites from desktop posted on february 13th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to preview the mobile version of your wordpress site? previewing the mobile layout helps you see how your website looks on mobile devices. while you can certainly take a look at your live site on your phone, this doesn’t help during the… read more » 9 best free logo makers to help you look like a pro (2020) posted on february 12th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking for the best free logo maker to create a new logo for your business? whether you’re running a small business website or a starting a blog, you want to look like a pro. this means having a great logo that fits your… read more » « 1 2 3 4 5 … 215 » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.