wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » articles by: editorial staff about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. how to sell gift cards with wordpress and boost your revenue posted on march 25th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to sell gift cards on your website? selling gift cards for your store, service, or digital products is an easy way for businesses to boost revenue and improve cash flow. in this article, we’ll share three different ways that you can use… read more » how to create a contact form with multiple recipients (4 ways) posted on march 23rd, 2020 by editorial staff do you want your contact form to send notifications to different people in your company? perhaps you want all messages to get copied to your assistant, or you want specific messages to be sent to different departments, or maybe you simply want to send users… read more » 7 best wix alternatives in 2020 (more powerful and reliable) posted on march 20th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking for the best wix alternatives? wix is a website builder that people use to create a website when they first start out, likely because they saw a tv commercial or heard one of the many ads. the challenge is that their free… read more » how to learn wordpress for free in a week (or less) posted on march 19th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking to learn wordpress and build a website? ease of use is one of the best things about wordpress which makes it the world’s most popular website builder. learning wordpress does not require a lot of time or money. you can do it… read more » 7 best platforms to easily sell digital products (compared) posted on march 18th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to sell digital products online? perhaps you’re planning to create ebooks, online courses, software, or something else entirely. regardless of which type of digital product you create, you will need an easy to use platform to sell your digital products and deliver… read more » beginners guide: how to install a wordpress theme posted on march 17th, 2020 by editorial staff are you looking to install a wordpress theme? there are thousands of wordpress themes available (both free and paid). as a beginner, you may want to try out a few of them on your site until you find the right one. in this beginner’s guide,… read more » how to make a logo for your website (simple guide for beginners) posted on march 16th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to make a logo for your website? perhaps you can’t afford a professional designer, but you’re worried that your graphic design skills aren’t up to the task. your logo is a crucial component of your brand’s identity. you want it to not… read more » 25 popular sites using wordpress as a cms in 2020 posted on march 13th, 2020 by editorial staff wondering how you can use wordpress as a cms? one of the most common misconceptions about wordpress is that it is just a blogging software. some of you often ask us for examples of wordpress being used as a cms platform (content management system) and… read more » how to add custom fonts in wordpress posted on march 12th, 2020 by editorial staff do you want to add custom fonts in wordpress? custom fonts allow you to use beautiful combination of different fonts on your website to improve typography and user experience. apart from looking good, custom fonts can also help you improve readability, create a brand image,… read more » how to bulk convert classic blocks to gutenberg in wordpress posted on march 11th, 2020 by editorial staff several of our readers have asked how to convert old wordpress post content into the new gutenberg (block) format in wordpress. after you update to any version above wordpress 5.0, your older post and page content will show up inside a classic block in the… read more » 1 2 3 … 215 » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.