events resource center magazine contact us march 26, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: what is marketing 101 coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise editorial calendar month editorial theme content topics january 2020 home business running a business from home. home offices. unusual home-based businesses. challenges and rewards of working from home. february 2020 farming and agriculture family farms, hobby farms, farming business plans, urban farms, agribusiness, and nurseries. march 2020 makers and crafters from etsy, amazon, and craft show handmade sellers, to carpenters and robot builders and everything in between -- we cover the unique challenges of these artisans. - march is national craft month april 2020 giving back cause-related business, cause marketing. sustainability. certified b corporation, benefit corporations. - earth day is april 22 may 2020 business ideas and startups ideas for starting a business. advice on startups. trends in startups. - national small business week is may 3 - 9 june 2020 business on the go working away from the office, remote workers, working on the road. mobility benefits and risks. tools, apps, and processes. july 2020 online business selling online on your own site and leveraging popular marketplaces (amazon, ebay). ecommerce platforms (shopify, big commerce, etc.). dropshipping and warehousing. running a business online. marketing a business online. - july is national independent retailer month - amazon prime day takes place in july august 2020 local business home professionals and services. local services (hair salons, stores, restaurants, automobile shops, etc.). sidewalk sales and local events. - national farmers’ market week is august 2 - 8 - national lemonade day is august 20 september 2020 self-improvement motivation and inspiration to achieve success. stress management, physical health, career growth. - september is self-improvement month october 2020 cybersecurity keeping your data and systems safe, and protecting customer data. new cyber threats, trends, and consequences. - october is national cyber security awareness month november 2020 building a team hiring and retaining the right people with benefits, perks, and salary. team building exercises and events. internal competition and team motivation. december 2020 business planning planning new or expanding product and service offerings. making and meeting goals and business targets. revenue and profits growth, and more. key performance indicators. - december is national write a business plan month monthly themes: themes listed above are timely additional content collections -- over and above regular topics. types of content: coverage includes news, interviews, features, how-to's, trends ideas, reviews, templates, evergreen tips and advice, more. mission our mission is “small business success … delivered daily.” each month small business trends inspires millions of decision makers to achieve their goals and dreams. publishing a wealth of original content, we energize owners, managers, startup founders, freelancers and aspiring entrepreneurs to overcome challenges and achieve the rewards that come with business ownership. exclusively digital. 1 days per year annual days we publish original content. 1 + audience website visitors per month. 1 - 1 people the size of small business we create for. 1 years number of years in publishing. pr inquiries pitch us – our inbox is always open. reach out to our editors and staff journalists by visiting our contact us page. contact our story media kit search updated december 10, 2019 small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit