welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners edx global university partner community joins forces to help students impacted by coronavirus published on: mar 11, 2020 by anant agarwal 3438 views no comments posted in: edx news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post over the past few weeks, we’ve seen the edx community of partners working to address the growing concerns related to the spread of the coronavirus and how it will impact their students, faculty and staff in new and challenging ways. most recently, we’ve heard from our edx global university partner community that they are facing the specific challenge around how to provide access to educational content for their students, giving them the ability to continue learning and be engaged and connected, as universities around the world grapple with closing their campuses to contain the spread of the virus. we wanted to harness the power of the edx partner network to help in the most impactful way possible. this week, we launched the remote access program, an initiative designed to help the edx partner community address the challenges they are facing, by providing their students with free access to courses and programs not just from their own universities, but from all edx partners participating in the initiative, helping students continue to learn online even as campuses close. our goal is simple: we want to help our university partners best support their students during this tough time. we believe that by sharing access to content across a global group of universities, we can unite like-minded students and instructors to learn as a digital community. we will continue to work closely with our partners to understand how we can further support them as they work with their students, faculty and staff to address the disruption to campus life caused by the spread of the virus, and will look for additional ways to help learners affected all over the world. recommended posts reflecting on the overwhelming response from the edx partner community on our coronavirus response 17 mar 2020 una reflexión sobre la abrumadora participación por parte de la comunidad de instituciones colaboradoras de edx respecto a nuestra respuesta frente al coronavirus 17 mar 2020 - en español consejos para un aprendizaje en línea exitoso 17 mar 2020 - en español leave a reply cancel reply you must be logged in to post a comment. search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close