welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners edx insider learning advice from an expert: meet nina published on: mar 16, 2020 by livia halltari 1163 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post for someone who loves teaching, designing learning experiences at a global scale brings together all of its best elements: joining learner and instructor perspectives, supporting learners to achieve their goals, and engaging with learning scientists to advance education from research. that’s one of the things we learned from our conversation with nina huntemann, senior director of academics and research at edx, in this installment of... read more about learning advice from an expert: meet nina community feature: edxers share what international women’s day means to them published on: mar 08, 2020 by livia halltari 1364 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post experience is a great teacher, and everyone has lessons to offer in this regard. that’s why each time we interview people across edx hq for our edx insider series, we try to gather a unique point of view from that person’s specific experience. lessons we’ve learned span across career advice, tips for returning to work, team-building, and learning styles. to celebrate international women’s day, we’re... read more about community feature: edxers share what international women’s day means to them making time for innovation: meet stephanie published on: mar 02, 2020 by livia halltari 1637 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what does it take to innovate? some things that may pop in your head probably include: thinking outside of the status quo, bright minds, making room for mistakes and learning from them. but what often gets overlooked is perhaps the most obvious answer — time. that’s one of the lessons we learned from our chat with stephanie, cmo of edx, in this edition of edx... read more about making time for innovation: meet stephanie grit, google, and gratitude: meet nimisha published on: feb 19, 2020 by livia halltari 2307 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post a recurring theme in the field of computer science seems to be the rate at which new capabilities are discovered means that it’s never too late to start learning. this rang true in nimisha’s story, edx’s chief architect, who shared her best advice for those new to (or in her case, returning to) web development in this edition of edx insider. how has your educational... read more about grit, google, and gratitude: meet nimisha edx insider: data analysis in marketing published on: jan 31, 2020 by livia halltari 2335 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post even if you don’t work in the data science field, data analysis skills and tools are still very likely to come in handy. we chatted with a few members of the edx marketing team to find out the ways these skills arise in their day-to-day work, how they were able to pick up on tools in this field despite not having a background in data... read more about edx insider: data analysis in marketing edx insider with anant agarwal published on: jan 22, 2020 by livia halltari 1852 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post welcome to the latest edition of edx insider, where we give you a behind-the-scenes look at edx hq. in this special installment, we sit down with edx ceo & founder anant agarwal to discuss innovation, edx’s history, its future, and more. what thing are you most proud of that edx has accomplished since 2012? 2012 was an incredibly exciting time, when we had no idea... read more about edx insider with anant agarwal becoming environmentally conscious: meet the edx sustainability team published on: nov 22, 2019 by livia halltari 2691 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post the sustainability team, a group of people committed to making the edx workplace more environmentally sustainable, was formed during hackathon xxii — a quarterly event with the goal of driving innovation and problem solving. the team’s first initiative was measuring edx’s carbon footprint and collecting potential projects to make a positive impact. the group has since grown, and has taken on a wider array of... read more about becoming environmentally conscious: meet the edx sustainability team inside edx for business: meet susan published on: oct 08, 2019 by livia halltari 2223 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post welcome back to edx insider, our ongoing series where we bring you behind the scenes at edx hq. we’re sitting down with susan, enterprise product marketing, to chat about edx for business, the things that set edx apart, and more. quick stats name: susan sherwin department: enterprise product marketinghow does the enterprise team relate to edx’s overall mission? ultimately, learners are learners, whether they’re joining... read more about inside edx for business: meet susan edx insider, micromasters® program edition: meet mary published on: jul 30, 2019 by livia halltari 1655 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post welcome back to edx insider, where we give you a behind-the-scenes look at edx hq. this week, we sit down with mary, associate product marketing manager, to discuss all things micromasters® programs. let’s get to it! quick stats: name: mary mooshian department/role: product marketing – micromasters® programs hometown: worcester, ma favorite food:this answer usually changes with the seasons. right now, i’ll eat anything that has... read more about edx insider, micromasters® program edition: meet mary asking questions, solving puzzles: meet farhanah published on: jul 09, 2019 by livia halltari 1696 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post welcome to the latest installment of edx insider, where we take you behind the scenes at edx hq. today we chat with farhanah, engineering manager, sustaining & escalations, about the things that make edx unique, what inspired her to pursue an engineering career, the best course she’s ever taken, and more. quick stats name: farhanah sheets department/role: engineering manager, sustaining & escalations hometown: singapore /... read more about asking questions, solving puzzles: meet farhanah page 1 of 3 current page: 1 page 2 page 3 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close