welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners learner news learner stories edx for business en español all posts he yin published on: apr 22, 2013 by mukta g 2911 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post vancouver, b.c., canada i am working my way through the edx curriculum. i’m very motivated, and believe my certificate has impressed more than one soul. from working in manufacturing, i am now a service engineer working for a great company. my 6.002x circuits & electronicsedx certificate was the key to the job promotion that changed my life. i took 6.002, taught by edx president and mit... read more about he yin radhika published on: apr 22, 2013 by mukta g 3141 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post new delhi i live in new delhi, india and i’m in the 10th grade and i’m 15. since i was 12, i have been making little circuits of my own and i taught myself how to solder and began making more complicated  things like music amplifiers and tinkering around with ics. thing is, i liked making all this, but i didn’t know how they actually... read more about radhika betty published on: apr 16, 2013 by mukta g 3299 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post boulder county, colorado i am a part-time ski instructor and the mom of five teenagers. we live in a small mountain town in boulder county, colorado. when i read about edx in our local paper last year, my initial thought about the online courses was, “that’s really exciting!” my 15-year-old son, who was just beginning to become enthralled with math and chemistry, suggested that we... read more about betty amol bhave published on: apr 16, 2013 by mukta g 5317 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post jabalpur, india i really enjoyed edx’s 6.002 circuits & electronicscourse offered by mitx this past fall and was really pleased to get an “a”. because the follow-up course, 6.003x, is not offered yet, two other students and i decided to start our own online mooc. so we created 6.003. i served as the website developer and created the whole website. ashwith and dan helped me in creating video... read more about amol bhave students and faculty at university of el salvador embrace edx courses published on: mar 23, 2013 by mukta g 3040 views no comments posted in: uncategorized like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post carlos martinezby the end of february 2012 an alumnus sent me an email telling me that the massachusetts institute of technology was starting a free web course on circuits and electronics, taught by mit’s former head of its artificial intelligence lab, professor anant agarwal. for a week or two, i was very skeptical about enrolling — after all, i was not a circuit analysis professor,... read more about students and faculty at university of el salvador embrace edx courses page 169 of 169 « first page « previous page... page 165 page 166 page 167 page 168 current page: 169 search the edx blog search the 4 most lucrative programming skills you can learn online learner news 07 feb 19 how edx works by popular subjects big data biology business business management business skills calculus composition computer programming computer science data analysis data science design digital marketing economics electronics engineering english entrepreneurship environmental science excel finance global warming grammar happiness health & wellness healthcare history information technology innovation java javascript language leadership liderazgo linux marketing music philosophy physics project management psychology python supply chain management sustainability writing go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close