skip to main content about contact press people opportunities issues free speech privacy creativity and innovation transparency international security our work deeplinks blog press releases events legal cases whitepapers take action action center electronic frontier alliance volunteer tools privacy badger https everywhere surveillance self-defense certbot panopticlick donate donate to eff shop other ways to give membership faq search form search email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. join eff lists copyright (cc by) trademark privacy policy thanks electronic frontier foundation donate electronic frontier foundation about contact press people opportunities issues free speech privacy creativity and innovation transparency international security our work deeplinks blog press releases events legal cases whitepapers take action action center electronic frontier alliance volunteer tools privacy badger https everywhere surveillance self-defense certbot panopticlick donate donate to eff shop other ways to give membership faq search form search the leading nonprofit defending digital privacy, free speech, and innovation. donate the leading nonprofit defending digital privacy, free speech, and innovation. featured update eff and covid-19: protecting openness, security, and civil liberties eff and its members work to ensure that technology supports freedom, justice, and innovation for all the people of the world. the covid-19 pandemic has made obvious how important the internet and digital tools are to our lives and how vital it is that we maintain an open and secure approach to them. online creativity is a bright spot in the darkness for those of us living under quarantine, shelter in place orders, or just staying home to voluntarily help... featured update what you should know about online tools during the covid-19 crisis a greater portion of the world’s work, organizing, and care-giving is moving onto digital platforms and tools that facilitate connection and productivity: video conferencing, messaging apps, healthcare and educational platforms, and more. it’s important to be aware of the ways these tools may impact your digital privacy and security during the covid-19 crisis. here are a few things you should know in order to make informed decisions about what works best for you and your communities, and ways you can... featured update the earn it bill is the government’s plan to scan every message online imagine an internet where the law required every message sent to be read by government-approved scanning software. companies that handle such messages wouldn’t be allowed to securely encrypt them, or they’d lose legal protections that allow them to operate. take action stop the graham-blumenthal attack on encryption that’s what the senate judiciary committee has proposed and hopes to pass into law. the so-called earn it bill , sponsored by senators lindsey graham (r-sc) and richard blumenthal (d-ct), will strip section... join our newsletter! email updates on news, actions, and events in your area. email address postal code (optional) anti-spam question: enter the three-letter abbreviation for electronic frontier foundation: don't fill out this field (required) thanks, you're awesome! please check your email for a confirmation link. oops something is broken right now, please try again later. issues covid-19 and digital rights many of our digital rights are impacted by covid-19 (coronavirus disease 2019). now more than ever, eff is dedicated to ensuring that technology supports freedom, justice, and innovation for all the people of the world. as our society struggles with how to protect public health, we must carefully consider... banner graphic: browser add-on privacy badger banner graphic: resource who has your face? the latest deeplinks blog by jennifer lynch | march 27, 2020 eff, aclu & cdt argue five months of warrantless covert 24/7 video surveillance violates fourth amendment should the fact that your neighbors can see the outside of your house mean the police can use a camera to record everything that happens there for more than five months? we don’t think so either. that’s why we joined aclu, aclu of massachusetts, and the center for democracy &... deeplinks blog by matthew guariglia | march 25, 2020 eff joins coalition urging judicial transparency during the covid-19 emergency eff and a number of other organizations that advocate for government transparency have signed onto a letter written by the first amendment coalition asking the california state judiciary to ensure public access to court proceedings and records. many clerk’s offices are restricting entry and many operations of the state... deeplinks blog by alex moss, elliot harmon | march 25, 2020 the feds can stop patent trolls from endangering covid-19 testing and treatment it’s unthinkable that bad actors could take advantage of patent law and keep the public from getting access to covid-19 tests and treatment, but they can and will—it already happened this month. fortunately, an often-overlooked section of u.s. patent law allows the government to do something about it. patent troll... deeplinks blog by gennie gebhart | march 25, 2020 verily's covid-19 screening website leaves privacy questions unanswered one week after alphabet’s verily launched its covid-19 screening website, several unanswered questions remain about how exactly the project will collect, use, and retain people’s medical information. verily, a healthcare data subsidiary of google's parent company alphabet, has until now operated its project baseline as a way to connect... deeplinks blog by jillian c. york | march 25, 2020 speaking freely: an interview with cristian león cristian león, based in buenos aires, works for asuntos del sur, a “think/do tank” that works to strengthen democracy and participation. originally from bolivia, cristian works on open government and democracy across several countries in latin america. our interview touched on free expression and surveillance in the region. deeplinks blog by jillian c. york | march 25, 2020 the right to anonymity is vital to free expression: now and always “there are myriad reasons why individuals may wish to use a name other than the one they were born with. they may be concerned about threats to their lives or livelihoods, or they may risk political or economic retribution. they may wish to prevent discrimination or they may use a... deeplinks blog by ernesto falcon | march 23, 2020 social distancing, the digital divide, and fixing this going forward social distancing, work from home, shelter in place—these are all strategies employed in response to the covid-19 epidemic. americans who have jobs allowing them to engage in social distancing are very dependent on their internet connection. that dependence is only going to grow as time goes on. as parents depend... deeplinks blog by karen gullo | march 23, 2020 user privacy champion ashkan soltani joins eff advisory board eff is proud to announce that independent researcher and technologist ashkan soltani has joined our advisory board, where he will share his expertise in privacy and security. ashkan is a long-time eff friend and collaborator whose research has informed our efforts to protect users from nsa backdoors, shine... deeplinks blog by dave maass | march 23, 2020 the california public records act is an essential right, even during a state of emergency as californians shelter-at-home up and down the state, the journalists and citizen watchdogs who file california public records act (cpra) requests know that trade-offs must be made. we know that local agencies may be understaffed at this time and that they may be slow to respond to our letters. they... deeplinks blog by cindy cohn | march 23, 2020 eff and covid-19: protecting openness, security, and civil liberties eff and its members work to ensure that technology supports freedom, justice, and innovation for all the people of the world. the covid-19 pandemic has made obvious how important the internet and digital tools are to our lives and how vital it is that we maintain an open and secure... more updates back to top follow eff: twitter facebook instagram youtube flicker rss contact general legal security membership press about calendar volunteer victories history internships jobs staff issues free speech privacy creativity & innovation transparency international security updates blog events press releases whitepapers press press contact donate join or renew membership online one-time donation online shop other ways to give copyright (cc by) trademark privacy policy thanks javascript license information