home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » electrical mid-century modern lighting options for millie’s remodel february 17, 2020 brittany bailey leave a comment mid-century modern design is a trend that is sweeping the design world by storm. while researching lighting options for millie's remodel, i curated a list of possible light fixtures. here are some of my favorite mid-century modern lighting options. mid-century modern lighting … [read more...] decor, decorating, designer, electrical, light fixture 3 ways to shorten light fixtures for low ceilings may 6, 2019 brittany bailey leave a comment hey all, do you have eight foot ceilings or lower? have you lamented the fact that the light fixtures you love will be too tall for your height-challenged ceilings? well put that light fixture back in your cart because i'm here today to show you how to make light fixtures work … [read more...] electrical, video saving etta: laundry room update and a no hands light switch february 11, 2019 brittany bailey 5 comments saving etta: laundry room update and a no hands light switch about that saving etta laundry room, did you get a peek last week? if you missed it, i showed you how i installed the cement tile floor. we can all agree, the star of the laundry room is the floor. but, there's another … [read more...] electrical, saving etta, video how to install a usb charging outlet december 7, 2018 brittany bailey 3 comments learn how you can make simple electrical upgrades to your home. today i'll show you how to install an outlet that charges your usb devices and powers your appliances at the same time. how to install a usb charging outlet i'm so excited to share this tutorial with you. … [read more...] electrical, saving etta how to update ugly recessed can lights with energy efficient led lights september 24, 2018 brittany bailey 18 comments do you have those old discolored recessed can lights in your home that use big hot flood bulbs? if so, it's time for an upgrade! how to update ugly recessed can lights with energy efficient led lights today i want to show you how to update ugly recessed can lights with energy … [read more...] diy, do it yourself, electrical, energy conservation, home maintenance, light fixture, tutorial diy, how to, led bulbs, light bulbs, light fixtures, maintenance, storage how to install smart dimmer switches september 20, 2018 brittany bailey 9 comments learning how to install smart dimmer switches is one of those diy skills that will improve your home and make life easier for you. how to install leviton's decora smart dimmer switches i've resisted installing a lot of smart technology in my home. basically i'm normally a … [read more...] electrical 15 electrical fixes any homeowner can make april 23, 2018 sheri 3 comments 15 electrical fixes any homeowner can make electrical work can be scary, even for seasoned diyers who haven't delved into electricity. many people have a fear of electrocution or fear of burning their house down. there are definitely times to hire a licensed electrician (when … [read more...] electrical diy, electrical, fix it, how to, industrial, led bulbs, light fixtures, tutorial how to install a video doorbell march 5, 2018 brittany bailey 2 comments how to install a video doorbell do you want to install a video doorbell at your house so you can keep tabs on who's at the door? you may be one of many who want to see who comes to the door when you aren't home (or even when you are but don't feel like venturing down to the … [read more...] electrical how to hang a barn light february 21, 2018 diane and dean 4 comments how to hang a barn light hi everyone, it's dean from diane and dean today. i can't wait to show you how to hang a barn light. some may call it an obsession, but i like to think of it as a significant interest! what is it? exterior lighting! most homeowners may not think much … [read more...] diy, electrical, light fixture barn light, diy, farmhouse light, light fixtures, tutorial how to repair a dishwasher november 24, 2017 brittany bailey 5 comments how to repair a dishwasher: control panel the holidays are here and your kitchen will surely be getting a work out! now is not the time for your dishwasher to break. recently we found ourselves with a non-functional dishwasher. the control panel buttons stopped working and … [read more...] electrical, fix it, home & auto maintenance, home maintenance, repair warm solution for a cold room november 20, 2017 brittany bailey 7 comments warm solution for a cold room i'm excited to share this solution with anyone who has a cold room in their home. sometimes a room may be cold because it lacks a heating duct, is missing insulation, or is on a concrete slab. whatever the reason, today i'm going to share with you a … [read more...] electrical 15 amazing diy lighting ideas august 18, 2017 brittany bailey 1 comment 15 amazing diy lighting ideas lighting can make a dramatic statement in any room and is a crucial element of good design. a great light fixture not only adds style, but it creates a mood and vastly impacts how you feel. one of the biggest benefits of diy lighting is you can … [read more...] decor, electrical, light fixture add energy efficient led fixtures in recessed can lights march 24, 2017 brittany bailey 4 comments if you're like me you are in tune with saving money and saving the environment. over time i've been switching several light fixtures and bulbs in my house to more energy efficient led bulbs. during the past few years there have been many developments in led light technology. … [read more...] electrical installing the most beautiful ceiling fan i ever laid eyes upon october 21, 2016 brittany bailey 146 comments i'm super excited to share you how to install the most beautiful ceiling fan i ever laid eyes upon! you remember last month when i gave my stepmom's screen porch a drab to fab makeover, right? well, i didn't really complete the makeover. i strategically cropped this ugly ceiling … [read more...] decorating, electrical how to install landscape lights and repel mosquitoes june 24, 2016 brittany bailey 8 comments pop quiz: how can you beautify your yard and repel mosquitoes at the same time? do you give up? introducing the new nutone haven backyard lighting & mosquito repellent system. as a resident of the north carolina, we fight a losing battle against mosquitoes for a … [read more...] electrical, landscaping & gardening convert a recessed light to accept a hardwire fixture april 4, 2016 brittany bailey 13 comments things are winding up at my client's home. we've been getting her 3000 sq. ft. home ready to sell. most of the changes we've made have been simple cosmetic changes. a few outdated light fixtures have been updated. in the kitchen, i wanted to add a stylish pendant light over the … [read more...] electrical 1 2 3 4 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok