welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog mit pilots full-credit online residential course published on: jun 14, 2017 by mit office of digital learning 6604 views 1 comment posted in: learner news / mooc research like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this post originally ran on mit news. campus students report more flexibility, reduced stress in taking an online version of a popular mit course. last fall, the department of electrical engineering and computer science (eecs) and mit office of digital learning piloted a full-credit online course for a small cohort of residential students. the popular 6.002 (circuits and electronics) was offered as 6.s064, leveraging an existing massive... read more about mit pilots full-credit online residential course exploring his passion for electronics on edx: meet, aritra published on: apr 20, 2017 by sara reich 5657 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post aritra, 18, a high school student from india, shares how edx has given him the opportunity to learn about his interests and develop new skills. since childhood, i have been fascinated by electronics. i’ve always wondered about the mysteries behind how they work, and why i can’t make my own devices. due to circumstances, i never had the chance to learn more about electronics in... read more about exploring his passion for electronics on edx: meet, aritra edx learner accepted into microsoft student partner program published on: may 13, 2016 by justine goulart 6503 views no comments posted in: learner news / learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post when we first heard from ali heikal, he was completing high school and looking forward to studying computer science – and study he has! he got back in touch to let us know that he’s since taken more edx courses, and was accepted into the microsoft student partner program! microsoft student partners are student technology leaders who are empowered to build microsoft communities on their campus and share their... read more about edx learner accepted into microsoft student partner program keshav gupta: how to stay motivated & engaged in edx courses! published on: apr 13, 2016 by monil shah 13281 views 2 comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post keshav gupta, a 17 year old high school student from india, contacted us to share how edx courses helped feed his curiosity and also helped him make his first diy project- a persistence of vision (pov) display which reads “keshav thanks edx.” from my childhood days, i have been fascinated by the electronics and computers around me and now it has become a hobby. generally,... read more about keshav gupta: how to stay motivated & engaged in edx courses! become a successful leader in tech, finance and more published on: feb 01, 2016 by monil shah 5352 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post did you know that for bill gates it’s literally not worth his time to pick up a $100 bill? it’s true! according to a fun fact from 2013, with a return of 6% and a worth of about $72 billion, he earns about $115 every second he is alive. wealth-x, a global leader in wealth intelligence recently published its report on the top wealthiest people... read more about become a successful leader in tech, finance and more stay curious this summer with edx published on: jun 30, 2015 by mukta g 3784 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post whether you are looking to learn a new technology this summer or want to refresh your math skills, we have the course for you with summer learning @ edx! from planes, to the cloud, smartphones, sports, and more, here are some interactive math and technology courses to keep your mind curious all summer long! enroll today! * advanced placement and ap are registered trademarks of the college board,... read more about stay curious this summer with edx ali khaled heikal published on: feb 25, 2015 by becky pineo 4820 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post cairo, egypt | age 17 i’m in my final year at the english school in cairo, and learned about edx while searching for online courses offered by the world top universities. since discovering edx, i typically spend my day going to my high school lectures, do the homework and study school subjects, go to the gym to exercise, and then i open edx and start learning... read more about ali khaled heikal zeeshan published on: sep 27, 2014 by mukta g 3285 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post lucknow, india i’ve completed my my undergrad degree in electronics and instrumentation, but taking mit’s 6.002x circuit and electronics was my first exposure to world class education from us colleges. having access to courses from some of the most prestigious colleges and universities in the world at no cost was an amazing concept. this course gave me a totally new perspective as to what ‘quality education’ meant.... read more about zeeshan engineering courses to help you boldly go where you’ve never gone before published on: jul 29, 2014 by patrick cavallario 5268 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post the first engineer i ever came across was enterprise ncc 1701-d chief engineer lt. commander geordi laforge on star trek the next generation (tng). not to get nostalgic about my love for star trek, but the show depicted a future in which anything was possible through science and engineering. cmdr. laforge could solve any problem he faced with his creativity and ingenuity. it was not... read more about engineering courses to help you boldly go where you’ve never gone before salvador sala pla published on: apr 18, 2014 by becky pineo 3302 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post alicante, spain | age 54 i live in spain and have taken five edx courses: circuits and electronics, python programming, introduction to biology, justice, and electricity and magnetism. i’m a big fan of edx, as edx courses have tremendous importance for personal development and for life. for young students, these courses are a great opportunity to be able to access the knowledge offered by the top universities in the world... read more about salvador sala pla search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close