wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » deals » themes » elegant themes deal elegant themes deal elegant themes is famous for their high-quality wordpress theme collection including the powerful page builder divi. with over 125,000 happy customers and 100+ full website packs for divi, they are one of the most well-established commercial theme providers in the industry. with our elegant themes coupon code, you get access to all of their top quality products (divi, extra, bloom and monarch) for the all-inclusive price of $89. even if you only want to use divi, that’s less than $0.89 per website pack! with the divi wordpress theme and page builder, you can easily create the site of your dreams. coupon code clickhere (click to copy & open site) last used 8 hours ago reviewed by: syed balkhi rating: how to use the elegant themes coupon code wpbeginner’s elegant themes coupon code helps you get all of elegant themes’ products for just $89. these include the hugely popular divi theme and website builder, plus the extra magazine-style theme, the bloom email optin plugin, and the monarch social media plugin. all you have to do is follow the instructions below to redeem the elegant themes coupon code, so you can get the maximum discount on elegant themes. first you’ll need to click over to the elegant themes website. you don’t have to type in a code. you’ll automatically get the best possible price. then click on the ‘pricing’ button in the top right corner to get started. on the next page, you can select yearly access or lifetime access. yearly access is $89 and gives you access to all themes and the divi website builder plugin. if you want to get lifetime updates and support without having to pay yearly renewal fees, you can choose the lifetime access option. click the ‘sign up today’ button under the license you want to purchase. now you can enter your information and set up a username and strong unique password to create your account. then click ‘complete registration’ to continue. on the next page, you’ll be able to submit your payment information. that’s all! go ahead and complete your purchase. you don’t need to enter a discount code anywhere. the elegant themes and divi coupon code will be applied automatically when you use our link to the elegant themes website. if you’ve got any questions, just keep reading. divi and elegant themes coupon code faq what do i get with my elegant themes membership? when you join elegant themes, either on a yearly or a lifetime plan, you get a lot included with your subscription: divi: elegant themes’ hugely popular page builder for wordpress. this comes with 100+ website packs, which are professionally designed template layouts you can use for your website. extra: a magazine-style wordpress theme and visual page builder. bloom: an email optin and lead generation plugin. monarch: a social media sharing plugin. having all of these included saves you spending on extra plugins or templates. can i use divi and the other tools on more than one website? yes! you can use all the themes and plugins on as many websites as you want. elegant themes doesn’t place any limits on you. if you want to run several blogs, or even create sites for paying clients, you can do that with just the standard elegant themes license. you don’t have to pay extra. is divi the best wordpress theme? divi is a hugely popular wordpress theme and page builder with lots of supporters. just ask around in our wpbeginner engage facebook group and you’ll find that plenty of people are using it. while different themes will suit different people and different types of sites, we think you can’t go far wrong with divi. it offers a huge amount of flexibility plus lots of great-looking built-in templates. this lets you get you up and running with a professional site quickly. can i get a refund from elegant themes? yes, easily! elegant themes offers “no questions asked” refunds to all customers within 30 days. if you’re not happy for any reason, just email them and they’ll refund you straight away. what’s the difference between the divi builder and the divi theme? the divi theme is the full version of divi. it makes use of a special page builder, the divi builder, which is built into it. the divi builder can also be used separately if you want to keep your existing theme. either way, you’ll need to purchase an elegant themes subscription. which license should i choose from elegant themes? the lifetime access pass is definitely elegant themes’ best value deal, as it gives you full, unlimited access to all their products for as long as you want. if you’re going to use the themes or the divi website builder for 3 years or more, then purchasing lifetime access will save you money. if you’re not sure which license to go for, though, you can buy the yearly license then upgrade at a later stage. just contact the support team and they’ll upgrade you to a lifetime license. you’ll only need to pay the difference between the two. we hope you found our elegant themes coupon code to be helpful. at wpbeginner, we work hard to negotiate exclusive discounts for our users. please check out other wordpress coupons and deals here. other amazing deals wp coupons and deals coupon get 30% off on wp coupons and deals wordpress coupon plugin. view this deal » seedprod coupon get 20% off on seedprod coming soon page plugin for wordpress. view this deal » sprout invoices coupon get 50% off on sprout invoices wordpress invoicing plugin. view this deal » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.