skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged element() it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 2 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. article march 26, 2020 how to repeat text as a background image in css using element() author ollie williams 1 comment join conversation there’s a design trend i’ve seen popping up all over the place. maybe you’ve seen it too. it’s this sort of thing where text is repeated over and over. a good example is the price comparison website, gocompare, who used it in a major multi-channel advertising campaign.… read article “how to repeat text as a background image in css using element()” background-image element() article february 5, 2019 using the little-known css element() function to create a minimap navigator author preethi 5 comments go to comments w3c’s css working group often gives us brilliant css features to experiment with. sometimes we come across something so cool that sticks a grin on our face, but it vanishes right away because we think, “that’s great, but what do i do with it?” the element() function was like that for me. it’s a css function that takes an element on the page and presents it as an image to be displayed on screen. impressive, but quixotic.… read article “using the little-known css element() function to create a minimap navigator” element() navigation how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers