skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged eleventy it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 7 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. link march 27, 2020 emergency website kit shared by robin rendle here’s an outstanding idea from max böck. he’s created a boilerplate project for building websites that fit within a single http request. this is extremely important for websites that contain critical information for public safety. as max writes: in cases of emergency, many organizations need a quick way to publish critical information. but exisiting (cms) websites are often unable to handle sudden spikes in traffic. … read article “emergency website kit” our notes / read at mxb.dev eleventy netlify static sites article march 27, 2020 creating an editable site with google sheets and eleventy author david atanda 1 comment join conversation remember tabletop.js? we just covered it a little bit ago in this same exact context: building editable websites. it’s a tool that turns a google sheet into an api, that you as a developer can hit for data when building a website. in that last article, we used that api on the client side, meaning javascript needed to run on every single page view, hit that url for the data, and build the page. that might be ok in … read article “creating an editable site with google sheets and eleventy” eleventy spreadsheet zapier link march 26, 2020 get static shared by robin rendle in this piece, eric meyer argues that performance is more important than ever right now — especially for websites that contain critical information for the public:… read article “get static” our notes / read at meyerweb.com eleventy performance static site generators sponsored article february 4, 2020 possibly the easiest way to run an ssg "static site generator," that is. we'll get to that in a second. netlify is a sponsor of this site (thank you very much), and i see zach leatherman has gone to work over there now. very cool. zach is the creator of eleventy, an ssg for node. one thing of the many notable things about eleventy is that you don't even have to install it if you don't want to. lemme set the stage.… read article “possibly the easiest way to run an ssg” eleventy includes netlify article january 17, 2020 eleventy love author chris coyier 5 comments join conversation been seeing a lot of eleventy action lately. it's a smaller player in the world of static site generators, but i think it's got huge potential because of how simple it is, yet does about anything you'd need it to do. it's just javascript™. jason lengstorf and zach leatherman did a learn with jason episode on it. reginald hunt has a big ol' guide on it. phil hawksworth has all these starters for it, like eleventyone and eleventail. andy … read article “eleventy love” eleventy article november 20, 2019 the future is bright, because the future is static author andy bell 3 comments go to comments i've been doing this web thing for money for 10 years this year and although i haven’t been around as long as some folks, i feel like i've seen a few cycles come and go now, so let's say that hot new things are often cynically viewed, initially. this milestone of mine has also got me in a retrospective mood, too, and the question “what about building websites has you interested this year?“ has only encouraged that. when i first … read article “the future is bright, because the future is static” eleventy jam netlify sponsored article april 24, 2018 jamstack comments jamstack sites are often seen as being static. a more accurate mental model for them would be that they are sites which have the ability to be hosted statically. the difference might seem semantic, but thanks to the rise of many tools and services which simplify running a build and deploying to static hosting infrastructure, such sites can feel much fresher and dynamic than you might imagine, while still capable of being served from static hosting infrastructure, with all … read article “jamstack comments” comments eleventy netlify static sites how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers