video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map elisette carlson guest writer founder of smack! media follow about elisette carlson elisette carlson is the founder of smack! media, a boutique branding, digital, marketing and public relation(ship)s® agency that helps brands achieve relevance and win in the health, wellness and nutrition markets. she puts ultimate value on personal relationships, teamwork and authenticity. more from elisette carlson success 5 ways to set good habits that actually stick new routines and healthy habits don't have to be an exercise in misery. 4 min read crisis management 10 tips for entrepreneurs to actually get work done while homeschooling kids homeschooling kids is the new normal, but our work still needs to get done. 10 min read work from home 10 tips from ceos on working from home effectively and happily far beyond getting out of your pajamas, these tips encourage wellness when you are working from home. 9 min read lifestyle the 6 best non-coffee-shop sites for remote work stop paying for coworking spaces and overpriced lattes. 6 min read success 9 strategies for working parents to reduce stress and get control of mornings stress less with these morning routines that work. 6 min read lifestyle how eating slow can transform your health and make you more productive mindful eating is a powerful technique that helps prevent binge eating and can bolster performance at work. 6 min read what women really want from their employers insights from four successful female leaders. 6 min read simple ways to calm down during times of stress and anxiety you can't out-hustle stress and anxiety. try these techniques to calm yourself down and find inner happiness. 5 min read company culture 5 new approaches to team building activities that are healthy and actually fun! team-building wellness events create bonds, boost morale and help everyone lose weight in the process! 7 min read personal growth 5 eating habits that rewire your brain for success try these easy tips to lose weight and gain energy. 6 min read work-life balance is b.s. -- here are 6 ways to regain your sanity. find a little inner peace by accepting chaos in your life. 5 min read company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account