content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search email marketing consulting nobody ever says “i sure wish i could get more email.” even though it gets a bad rap, email is still the spine of all digital marketing. after all, you must have an email address to even create an account on a social network! and in b2b, what do marketing and sales teams use to nurture prospects? that’s right…email. but customer expectations for email continue to increase. customers want email that’s personalized, relevant, useful, and interesting. the email program you launched three years ago may not meet the customer expectation test today. further, customers are also eager to connect with brands in other ways that get that interaction out of the inbox. live chat. chatbots. facebook messenger. all of these are critical components of modern customer contacts, because you certainly can’t rely on organic social to do the job. we can help. we’ll work with you to determine what your customers really want, where you’re exceeding those expectations, and where you may be falling short. we’ll evaluate your email and messaging versus your key competitors and determine where you can use conversation marketing to inform and delight your customers and prospects. we use our decades of experience, proprietary audience insights, competitive analysis, advanced metrics system, and detailed research to craft email and messaging programs that drive meaningful business results. our clients and case studies speak for themselves. how we work with our email consulting clients while we’ll tailor to your organization’s circumstances, many of our assignments look like this: deep research. we look, at your business/organization, category, competition, current email and messaging programs, customer insights, analytics, and more. qualitative analysis. 1:1 conversations with key stakeholders on your team, as well as interviews with prototypical customers and prospects quantitative analysis. detailed surveys of current customers, prospects, and lapsed customers to study key perspectives, attitudes, content consumption patterns, and more. strategy summary. assessment and overview of email and messaging current and future states, including themes, messaging, calls to action, audiences, triggers, cadences, metrics and measurement, and subscriber acquisition. this deliverable also includes an unveiling of the key strategic transformations necessary to meet business objectives for email and messaging. this is the “what” of our work. operations playbooks. highly detailed documents (typically 1-2) that specify precisely what needs to be done to consistently and accurately put into practice the new/improved email/messaging program described in the strategy summary. this is the “how” of our work. ongoing counsel. lightweight weekly support to answer questions, refine playbooks, connect dots, and pitch in where needed. this is like personal training for conversation marketing optimization. in addition to our email and messaging consulting programs, we also create content marketing for our clients, provide content marketing consulting, and and conduct content marketing training via workshops, keynote presentations, and boot camps. speak to a convince & convert strategist let's schedule a call to chat about your marketing goals and challenges. a convince & convert strategist will get back to you within 1 business day (or sooner) to schedule your call. we can't wait to chat with you! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept