flash sale 30-days money-back guarantee free domain 24/7 customer supportview offer up to 90 % off flash sale web hosting plans + free domain when you complete your order in ... 02 days 11 hours 17 minutes 15 seconds get my 90 off! up to 90 % off flash sale 1-click installer php 7.4 support optimized for wordpressview offer up to 90 % off flash sale: web hostingfrom $0.99 /month!get started × email hosting for your online projects get email hosting services and increase your brands’ trust! get started everything you need at your fingertips 01 choose your email hosting plan pick one of the two available options and review your cart items. order a 12-month cycle to get a free domain! 02 complete the checkout process finish the transaction by filling in your payment details. you’ll then reach the members area. 03 enjoy your email hosting follow the initial service setup to get everything running. then, create your first domain-based email address and start sending! advanced search advanced search to make your life easier make your life easier with super fast search. with flockmail's search you will find emails which you are looking for in seconds. search by subject line, sent date, keywords.see planskeyboard_arrow_right integrated video calls supercharge your emails with video with flockmail you will be able to host meetings for up to 50 people. fast and reliable solution to help your business grow faster than ever.see planskeyboard_arrow_right schedule meetings and organize your day calendar_view_day see your agenda at a glance you will not miss any important meeting or date, because calendar allows you to schedule and track all your meetings in one place event schedule events quickly want to set up a meeting with your teammates? no problem. check their availability in just a second. transfer your domain to hostinger sorry, this top-level domain cannot be transferred to hostinger at the moment. seems like this domain is available for registry. would you like to register it?sorry, this domain is already hosted somewhere and it cannot be transferred.an unexpected error occurred. please try again later. choose your email hosting plan business email $2.19 save 55% $ 0 99 /mo price per mailbox add to cart 10 gb email storage 2 mail filters 50 email aliases antivirus check multi-device support most popular enterprise email $3.49 save 29% $ 2 49 /mo price per mailbox add to cart 30 gb email storage unlimited mail filters 50 email aliases antivirus check multi-device support become a part of hostinger now! start your journey with us today! plans from only $0.99/mo start now email hosting faq our answers to most frequently asked email hosting inquiries what is email hosting? email hosting is a unique solution focused primarily on email servers. this service works independently from website hosting, hence your business will still operate at full scale even while you're setting everything up. what are the advantages of domain-based email boxes? nowadays, building brand trust and awareness is extremely important. but it is not an easy thing to do. however, it is much simpler with domain-based email hosting! every letter that you send will display your domain name to potentials customers while encouraging them to check out your site. surveys also show that users are more likely to choose companies that use professional email addresses! can i migrate my email contents from other platforms? you surely can! every plan will have an inbuilt email migration tool to help you transfer anything you need onto our platform. and in case you run into any trouble, or simply need assistance, our dedicated customer success team will be more than happy to help you out! can i set up email accounts on apple/android devices? of course! each email hosting plan is fully compatible with any mobile device or mail client. set it up across multiple devices and effortlessly synchronize all email content. be responsive no matter where you're located! hosting web hosting vps hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting email hosting cms hosting ecommerce hosting free website hosting website builder cheap web hosting buy hosting windows vps minecraft server hosting web design services domains domain checker domain transfer free domain xyz domain cheap ssl certificate buy domain name whois checker domain name search 99 cent domains free ssl certificate information server status affiliate program payment methods wall of love reviews student discount pricing youtube creators our mission is to make life easier for website developers and their customers. we do it by offering easy to use, fast and reliable web hosting services. and more help report abuse knowledge base tutorials blog company about hostinger contact us our technology career legal privacy policy terms of service © 2004-2020 hostinger.com - premium web hosting, cloud, vps & domain registration services. prices are listed without vat