start here blog podcasts ebooks resources jobs courses search start here blog podcasts ebooks resources jobs courses post a job now, from only $70 start here blog podcasts ebooks resources jobs courses search view jobs post a job about testimonials faqs applying safely online candidate dashboard employer dashboard email marketer – reach a big audience and make a positive impact fluentu published: march 26, 2020 location anywhere work can be done remotely job type full-time category marketing / promotion company type small business description do you have experience in online marketing or writing? are you ready to be a part of something big, and help it grow bigger? do you want to reach and make positive impact on millions of people? this job might be for you if you: like being able to set your own hours and work from home don't like drumming up new business or chasing down clients like exercising your creativity and experimentation like having responsibility like working collaboratively like having a dependable, reliable stream of work want to make the world a better place are comfortable with a fast-changing environment. you should not take this job if you: are looking for another client to add to your list of clients have a strong need/desire for in-person social interaction at work like following instructions and being told what to do don't like needing to come up with ideas are not comfortable in a fast-changing environment don't have a real interest or experience in online education. about us fluentu is an online education company that helps people learn languages with real-world videos, including movie trailers, music videos, news and inspiring talks. we have a website, ios app (usually in the top 20-50 grossing ios education apps), and android app. founded in 2011, we’re a profitable, stable company with long-term focus, and we’re proudly self-funded. we get 5 million visitors per month on our blogs and have 100,000+ people on our email list. this is a unique opportunity to be the primary person behind our email list and web push strategy. job description as our email marketer, you would be responsible for: writing emails and web push notifications setting up funnels conceiving of landing pages and offers a/b testing and conversion rate optimization setting up marketing automation you do not need to be able to design or code (other team members will handle that). you would work closely with the founder of fluentu. how we work we’re a 100% distributed/remote team. here’s a little bit more about how we work: almost all of our communication is text-based (mostly via asana) and we value clear communication, among other things. most things are not urgent. we take pride in having a calm work environment. we also have a flat collaborative environment. we make decisions based on logic/reason. we believe in getting things done and continuous improvement. qualifications our ideal candidate: doesn't need to have all the skills mentioned in the job description, but should have many of them. has marketing experience and intuition has a quantitative bent is a fast learner who is willing to put in the work to figure it out. writes and speaks english like a native speaker is terrific at written communication. has a deep interest in language learning or online education. is able to work a minimum of 15 hours per week (pay is hourly) and is looking for something long-term. how to apply please click here and fill out the form. tips for applying online safely apply apply your name * your e-mail address * message attachments drop files here browse files ... captcha captcha * related jobs finance or seo specialist writer wanted anywhere new march 26, 2020 writer needed for a tech niche site remote new march 25, 2020 [european] content writer for adult toy website anywhere new march 25, 2020 fitness & lifestyle bloggers wanted! anywhere new march 25, 2020 android authority seeking tech news writers anywhere new march 23, 2020 job board menu employer dashboard post a job candidate list candidate search candidate dashboard view jobs advanced job search subscribe via rss all jobs create a job alert featured jobs finance or seo specialist writer wanted anywhere writer needed for a tech niche site remote [european] content writer for adult toy website anywhere fitness & lifestyle bloggers wanted! anywhere android authority seeking tech news writers anywhere need long-term writers to provide premium home & living content anywhere freelance content copywriter for skincare/ beauty website anywhere looking for long term writer for premium music website remote expert copywriter to write high converting reviews remote freelance writer saudi arabia copyright © 2020 problogger.com · all rights reserved are you sure you want to delete this file? yes, delete this file. cancel / add files cancel selected