skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more email marketing strategies email marketing made easy build an email list, send emails that matter, and grow your business on autopilot. email marketing is one of the most important components of your business. now, it's time to finally make it work for you. let's do this! let's start with the basics, and then add on from there… what is email marketing? email marketing is the idea of building a contact list of email addresses (subscribers), ideally of those who are interested in you and your products, who you can then serve by sending messages and marketing materials that matter. and when you do this right, your email list becomes one of the most powerful assets you have in your business. your email list can help you understand what blog posts to write about, what podcast episodes to create or what videos and tutorials to shoot. your email list becomes your list of contacts to share newsworthy information about your brand and business. and of course, your email list becomes a list of prospects that could potentially become students, customers, and clients. building a list and sending great emails is not easy though. if you're like many, it can seem like learning a new language, or maybe you've tried it and it just didn't work for you. it is worth your time, but only if you execute properly. don't worry though, because i got your back. you're in the right place. on this page, you'll find: the best step-by-step guide to help you grow your list and make email marketing work our best free articles and tutorials on email marketing our favorite tools for email marketers popular spi podcast episodes about email marketing the most important thing to remember, however, is this: the size of your email list isn't nearly as important as the quality of people who are on it. it's not about the numbers, it's about the human beings and the connections and experiences you create for them over time.-pat flynn free, just for you. no opt-ins required. the best email marketing guides on the internet we've put together a clear, step-by-step series of posts to help walk you through how to get started building a list, growing your list, and what to do with it. check it out! email marketing how to start an email list don't wait to get started you're on the right page if you know you need to know how to start an… 0 chapters start here email marketing spi's epic guide to email marketing welcome to my epic guide to email marketing! if you’re looking for in-depth guidance on what email marketing is, why… 7 chapters start here articles tutorials and case studies these articles, tutorials, and case studies will help you choose the best products and tools to serve your audience. view all articles on email marketing how to win with email marketing in 2019 ready to crush it with email marketing in 2019? email marketing is as crucial to online business as ever—here are my top five tips for success! how to get more email subscribers (17 lead magnet ideas) want to grow your email list? here are seventeen ideas for effective lead magnets—resources and tools that will help subscribers hit the ground running and turn them into fans, too. a beginner's guide to email list segmentation your audience isn't all the same—it's made up of several groups, each with their own needs and problems you can help them solve. in this step-by-step guide, i'll teach you to use email segmentation to better serve the groups within your audience. why i switched from aweber to infusionsoft to convertkit earlier this year, i made a big decision to move my email list of over 135,000 subscribers to infusionsoft from aweber, which i’ve used for the past 5+ years. three months later, my email list now lives on an new and rapidly growing platform called convertkit. how to train your subscribers to open your emails every time you send you could write the best content in the world, but it’s all for nothing if no one opens your emails. there are two variables that can mean the difference between your subscribers reading your emails and completely ignoring them. learn how paying attention to these two variables will greatly improve your email open rate. what i learned from growing my email list 3,418% (nearly 200k) in just 11 days are you looking to grow your email list quickly? well this may just be the ticket for you. this is what happens when you run a viral contest, and this is exactly how it all happened (and what should have been done better). email marketing checklist—how many of these 10 things are you actually doing? so you have an email list. great! unfortunately, if you're like most people, you're not optimizing your email marketing efforts. here's a checklist of 10 email marketing essentials. how many of the 10 are you actually doing right now? how to land your emails in the gmail “primary” tab every time tired of your emails ending up in your subscribers' promotions tabs? here's what you can do to get your emails into their primary tabs, and help increase the likelihood your emails will be seen by your subscribers. how i increased my email subscriptions by 315% (and the small, quick thing that made it happen) last week, i wrote a post that increased my email subscriptions more than any other post i've written before. here's exactly how it happened. a ninja email autoresponder trick you can use to save time and make more money in this post, you'll discover how one simple addition to your email autoresponder series can help you include and control specific, real-time content within your pre-written email series. hundreds, potentially thousands of people are getting automated emails from you – here's how you can take advantage of that and earn a little bit more too. the spi email marketing cheat sheet 10 “copy-and-paste” email templates know exactly what to send your email list survey and research questions included! download the cheat sheet learn to write great emails. the epic guide to email marketing walks you through how to set up your email marketing program, but once it's set up, what should you write? subscribe the epic guide to email marketing walks you through how to set up your email marketing program, but once it's set up, what should you write? topics styles universal rules recommended tool convertkit convertkit makes communicating with your audience easier, helping you to manage your email list, set up autoresponders, and create automations so easy and user-friendly—that way you can make sure you’re sending the right email to the right person at the right time. it’s the perfect blend of power and simplicity, and it's the best tool for promoting products to your audience. get convertkit podcasts email marketing podcast episodes hear the strategies and success stories about email marketing so that you can successfully grow your list and make more money with email, too! smart passive income podcast with pat flynn weekly interviews, strategy, and advice for building your online business the smart way. subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast60+ million downloads august 20, 2012 spi 044: how to win with your email list – part 1 of 2 april 29, 2015 spi 159: the best practices for increasing sales with your autoresponder email series december 14, 2016 spi 244: bootstrapping a startup with nathan barry from convertkit june 6, 2018 spi 321: earn more media exposure (at any level) with christina nicholson more episodes askpat 2.0 a weekly coaching call on online business, blogging, marketing, and lifestyle design. apply for an askpat coaching call! you’ll be asked a series of questions about your business and will be given the opportunity to make a 30-second audio pitch for your question. see the full submission guidelines. and read the askpat privacy policy and terms of use. apply for a coaching call subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast12.5 million downloads april 15, 2014 ap 0061: email marketing: email templates vs. text only, which is better? september 6, 2018 ap 1032: how can i segment my audience without getting overwhelmed? august 30, 2017 ap 0942: how do i grow my email list without over-promoting? august 18, 2017 ap 0934: do shorter emails work better? more episodes want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less