skip to content 3× annual “best of” apple podcasts 400+ million episodes downloaded 8,000+ 5-star reviews the blog of author tim ferriss tim ferriss's 4-hour workweek and lifestyle design blog. tim is an author of 5 #1 nyt/wsj bestsellers, investor (fb, uber, twitter, 50+ more), and host of the tim ferriss show podcast (400m+ downloads) latest episode: dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more (#417) https://rss.art19.com/episodes/206cd7fc-e344-4897-b31b-d038e19f5330.mp3download menu home podcast all episodes and guests sponsorship and advertising newsletter books tim’s books the tim ferriss book club about tim ferriss bio causes media kit and samples terms of service disclosure – the full monty privacy policy contact media kit and samples contact corrections? please fill out this form. jobs search for: search posted on march 20, 2020march 20, 2020 by tim ferriss emergency technique: how to increase ventilator capacity 2–4x in 10 minutes 29 comments topics: categorieswriting and blogging share this: facebook twitter email reddit print join 1.5m+ subscribers and receive exclusive tools, tips, and resources sent directly by tim: type your email address yes, sign me up for tim's free email newsletter. i agree to the privacy policy. get access the next two weeks are going to be very difficult, and the risk of ventilator shortages due to covid-19 is high. manufacturing will ultimately help, but it takes time. i’m already aware of one hospital in new york that can no longer provision one “vent” per patient, and demand is likely to grow dramatically over the next 7–10 days as cases spike. even with full lockdown and total compliance, one could expect admittance to grow for 10–12 days minimum, based on the data we have from other countries. in emergency circumstances, the below modification can be completed in less than 10 minutes and enables one ventilator to intubate as many as four people (instead of one). i first learned of it from victor cheng earlier this week, and dr. charlene babcock demonstrates it below: this has been performed successfully in animals, such as on four human-sized (70kg) sheep (increasing ventilator surge capacity in disasters: ventilation of four adult-human-sized sheep on a single ventilator with a modified circuit), and dr. charlene babcock from the above video has also completed proof of concept studies with colleagues. the following text is from victor cheng’s blog post: in 2006, dr. greg neyman and dr. charlene babcock, emergency medicine physicians in detroit, michigan, did a study on exactly this. they wondered if, during a disaster-related surge of patients, a ventilator could be reconfigured to support multiple patients. would it work? short answer: yes. they used standard equipment found in an emergency room to create a two-way and four-way splitter. they then used the ventilator to ventilate four simulated-lung devices for 12 hours. these devices had several sensors to track the output of the ventilator for each “lung.” the data collected showed that the pilot project was successful. another possible option: a separate friend in healthcare (thanks, franz!) linked me to the philips respironics bi-level ventilator bipap a40 and noted the following, which i’ve slightly edited for format: [hospitals] should consider using small cpap devices with modes designed to deliver timed breaths. they look like small niv or cpap devices and are commonly used with a mask interface. but it may not be common knowledge that these devices are also approved for invasive ventilation and that they have pressure control modes with timed breaths. in the above option, i realize that monitoring would be sub-optimal and that there are other complications to consider, but some oxygen may be better than no oxygen. i am publishing this post with the full understanding that: some hospitals are already considering these types of contingencies and preparing for worst-case scenarios. that said, many are not, hence this post. these solutions aren’t optimal, but they are likely better than choosing who lives and who dies, as we’ve seen happen in italy. in the case of dr. babcock’s demonstrated modification, if doctors can match up size and lung compliance, and provided patients can all be on the same settings and you’re willing to accept cross-contamination on a single machine, this could very well save lives. if you agree, thank you for sharing this piece. and if you’re looking for some inspirational reading, i highly suggest “not all heroes wear capes: how one las vegas ed saved hundreds of lives after the worst mass shooting in u.s. history.” related and recommended the tim ferriss show is one of the most popular podcasts in the world with over 400 million downloads. it has been selected for "best of apple podcasts" three times, it is often the #1 interview podcast across all of apple podcasts, and it's been ranked #1 out of 400,000+ podcasts on many occasions. to listen to any of the past episodes for free, check out this page. topics: categorieswriting and bloggingtags: tagscoronavirus, covid-19 leave a reply cancel reply comment rules: remember what fonzie was like? cool. that’s how we’re gonna be — cool. critical is fine, but if you’re rude, we’ll delete your stuff. please do not put your url in the comment text and please use your personal name or initials and not your business name, as the latter comes off like spam. have fun and thanks for adding to the conversation! (thanks to brian oberkirch for the inspiration) 29 replies to “emergency technique: how to increase ventilator capacity 2–4x in 10 minutes” kaj ahlkvist says: march 20, 2020 at 3:52 pm sorry 50% survival rate was achieved with ventilators 30% was achieved understanding a background pressure needed to be kept for alveolus from collapsing, thus keeping co2 levels up (and patients trying to remove face mask) so let’s sedating them ( now extremely qualified nurses are required) was required 6% was achieved turning them around ( face down face up etc) all around the day. quest: find enough skilled professionals reply bluecat57 says: march 20, 2020 at 4:09 pm co2 levels up! wasn’t that the cure in the andromeda strain?!?!? reply bluecat57 says: march 20, 2020 at 4:07 pm thank god the government told us to that and has regulations to prevent us for doing so. reply pls says: march 20, 2020 at 4:10 pm fascinating options. two comments: 1. ventilator circuits need to be closed with this virus to prevent spread to healthcare workers. not sure how the configuration would work with that. 2. non invasive ventilation appears to be useless in people needing respiratory support and they need full intubation to manage their respiratory failure. interesting ideas. reply julie says: march 21, 2020 at 2:28 pm patients should all be intubated. keeping the circuit closed is essential and is easily done with this model. i was involved with the sheep study referenced. we did blood gases every 30 minutes for 12 hours and were able to effectively ventilate and oxygenate all 4 sheep for 12 hours. reply donsmith says: march 20, 2020 at 6:55 pm very cool reply franz wiesbauer says: march 21, 2020 at 2:03 am you are welcome tim! also, we offer free mechanical ventilation online training to every hospital that’s taking care of covid-19 patients. we have already trained thousands of clinicians and have activated accounts for hundreds of hospitals worldwide: https://www.medmastery.com/magazine/frontliners-fighting-against-covid-19 reply adrian melo says: march 22, 2020 at 3:14 am hey tim, this is great, i will make sure to share as much as possible. one thing i was thinking is if the problem of “match[ing] up size and lung compliance” could be solved using inexpensive pvc ball valves or something of the sort found in emergency rooms to limit the flow of air going into the tubing. another option is that by extending the length of the tubing the airflow volume might be less given that it would be traveling a longer distance hence adapting to the size and lung compliance? i know this can’t be known for sure without testing but this testing could be done using their same methodology to check the volume reaching each lung. if this works reliably it could save even more lives. i might try and get in contact with a friend in health care to try this test this idea to get a reliable amount of oxygen that could be measured to match the need of patients. keep doing the awesome work. 🙂 reply cathy james says: march 22, 2020 at 5:08 am tim, one of my local doctors in perth, ontario has used this method to increase our low equipment capacity. he’s received media attention for it if you google doctor alain gauthier! reply jon says: march 22, 2020 at 6:53 am here is the thing i want to know more about. covid19 patients are given ventilator support when they are in the advanced stages and at risk of developing pneumonia. but there are number of studies that show that ventilators (despite how well they are maintained) contain bacteria that increase the chances of contracting pneumonia. if more than one covid19 patient is administered ventilation from the same machine, do they not run the risk of increasing the chances of contracting pneumonia even more? reply julie says: march 22, 2020 at 8:52 am short answer we simply don’t know yet. it’s not that the ventilators themselves contain bacteria. this is easily preventable with good practice. however, ventilator circuits are great places for bacteria to grow. there may be ways to prevent cross contamination but it’s definitely possible that this could occur. if this strategy is used it’s important that the patients are both similar. they all should be confirmed covid positive and be in similar stages of disease. lung compliance of one patient will affect the tidal volumes of the others. reply patrick c ramsey says: march 22, 2020 at 8:32 am thanks for the info. i have been a respiratory therapist for almost thirty years and will likely be at the tip of the spear in the dc suburbs working in two hospitals part and full time. i only would add that the ventilation of multiple patients would be most effective under two conditions: if the patients are in advanced illness, and are given paralytics plus sedation to limit excess flow demand or if patients are spontaneously breathing requiring only continuous positive airway pressure (cpap). just this morning i thought of a way to uilize common supplies to provide high fio2 cpap via mask without using any ventilators or cpap/bipap devices. also this device would filter exhaled gas to limit staff exposure. if utilized when oxygenation requires any o2, this system could prevent the collapse of surfactant deficient cox 2 cells in lungs, and maybe, just maybe, stop the viral spread with the lungs and halt the ards associated inflammatory cascade. this contradicts cdc recommendations to minimize cpap, but i think we need to “keep the horses in the barn” early on in the process. please contact me if interested. reply tb says: march 22, 2020 at 9:18 am this has been forwarded to a nurse practitioner at mass general. thanks. reply patrick c ramsey says: march 22, 2020 at 1:42 pm if we are looking at alveolar cox 2 getting hit very early and patients are presenting with diffuse pneumonia, and a bit later these folks are going straight to intubation with some success, i wonder if a group of minimally affected patients would benefit most from cpap: presenting symptoms slight sob, fever, normal spo2, ground glad cxr/ct ->> 21% cpap!! positive pressure is able to splint remaining alveoli open, reducing sheering forces. if effective, work on doing this even earlier! oxygen should be minimized to diminish oxidative stress during inflammatory “micro-cascades” and less o2 minimizes absorption atelectasis; hopefully ldads to less viral exudate and nearby cells don’t collapse. also the cpap can be done via flow meter (to corrugated tubing to cpap-mask at t-bar to hepa filter to peep valve )(simple set up) will close off patient’s exhaled gas from room. crank up the flow add o2 as necessary crank up the pressure with zero tech! more corrugated tubing will balloon a bit to allow for inspiratory flow demand. sorry to dive so deep. i don’t share my brain often. reply dr.amrita basu says: march 22, 2020 at 10:01 pm the portable bipapa40 is something i was myself checking out just yesterday.i am an ent surgron in india and the lack of ventilators everywhere worried me too.but the co use of ventilator may be controversial. what i also need is hacks /inexpensive ways of making isolation rooms negative pressure.thanks for this. reply alex rawlings says: march 24, 2020 at 1:14 pm i have speaking with spanish anaesthetists who are currently struggling to treat an overwhelming amount of patients in madrid. they do not think this will work with patients with covid-19 as each patient requires protective ventilation that is tuned to their individual needs. this just would not be possible with many patients on the same ventilator. reply eric says: march 24, 2020 at 1:27 pm if only 3.5% of us are likely to have any serious complications from covid-19, why don’t we quarantine those at risk instead of the 96.5% who won’t be serious in jeopardy? wrecking the economy is unnecessary. just apply the 80/20 principal. if we cannot stop the virus from spreading…then let those who can keep the economy alive do so and this will more than save and pay for the treatment of those in need. reply thiago ghilardi says: march 24, 2020 at 1:29 pm additional method: italy is using decathlon scuba masks and printing valves using 3d printers successfully to create ventilators. https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/coronavirus-incredible-hack-turning-scuba-21746459 reply laura says: march 24, 2020 at 1:33 pm i’m not a medical professional of any kind – but one thing i’ve not seen anyone mentioning: are there older model ventilators around somewhere? (storage basements? medical equipment “waste”/ recycling locations?) in an emergency, it seems like any ventilator, even if it’s not the latest and greatest model, is better than none. is there sources to check for finding and bringing old models back into functionality? reply james says: march 24, 2020 at 5:42 pm thanks for the video. i would just ask that the owner of the video open it for community contributions so that a transcription and translations can be made. many thanks reply angel ramos says: march 24, 2020 at 8:37 pm i am an on-site it analyst at a hospital in westchester new york. i am on the floors fixing the computers that run the hospital no one ever even notices we exist. i have an elderly parent that lives with me many of my of my coworkers have gotten sick i am scared to death to bring something home and hurt my father i hope people also notice it help the hospital run in this age of technology. reply paul luikart says: march 24, 2020 at 9:35 pm http://echo4.bluehornet.com/ct/98698434:7darphlrn:m:1:3168055951:3b2cb461eb29a88e1bb40e5bb07e1d39:r as an anesthesiologist and crit care md i have used and considered many options for increasing ventilators throughout the world in short order. this is one of the best thoughts out there due to its simple, cheap design, using products available in every hospital, and most hardware stores. it isn’t fancy, or super adjustable. but, it is better than just skipping putting grandma on a vent because she is over 65. reply paolo carboni says: march 25, 2020 at 4:33 am this has been done already here in italy at s. orsola hospital in bologna and other in lumbardy. reply dave mason says: march 25, 2020 at 12:31 pm use a multi-tap manifold out to multiple patients, have an inline air regulator to each patient to control volume & pressure, install a check valve for each tube to prevent back-flow and cross contamination. reply ann becks says: march 25, 2020 at 2:46 pm hi tim! posting a question to flow from the coronavirus pandemic episode. i’m a palliative care expert and have a question to pose based on a theory :i believe that we organize much of our lives avoiding thoughts of death, perhaps ‘running away’ from death. i’d appreciate your thoughts on 2 aspects of this premise. 1. if this is true, what do you believe is the greatest fear humans have about death and dying? do you fear death, why or why not? 2. how can we live our most abundant experience to minimize regret at the end of our lives? thanks for your consideration! ps i don’t believe you’ve had a podcast on death and dying? i’d love to join you! 🙏🏻🤗 reply lina says: march 25, 2020 at 6:58 pm hospitals will need helmets for covid-19 but they don’t know it. in the usa two teams collaborate to get information to clinicians, connect hospitals with resources, improve current helmet design and increase production to meet a growing need. [moderator: link removed.] reply wenko says: march 25, 2020 at 11:40 pm sharing this cool video of how to obtain an emergency respiratory mask for assisted ventilation using a common snorkeling mask >> https://youtu.be/w4csqdxkrfw reply pamela says: march 26, 2020 at 12:13 pm could ventilators made for veterinary use (with smaller air volumes) be adapted for emergency use in a similar manner? how small a ventilator unit is potentially useful? reply james chen says: march 26, 2020 at 1:18 pm my brother is a neurosurgeon working on a potential disinfection solution for the mask/ppe that may lead to a technique for ongoing disinfection of masks/ppe that is not feasible with current methods, all of which have significant downsides. the ask is for funding or other support. he is working with who and cdc and the university of washington at present to ramp this up. he can send you more details about this. anyone you know of who is interested in this please have them contact him. thank you for shining a light on what the medical community is grappling with at this time in addition to the actual corona virus disease. reply post navigation previous postprevious lori gottlieb — the power of getting to *unknow* yourself (#415) next postnext how to support healthcare workers now — plus urgent suggestions for uber eats, hilton, amazon, and more (#416) join 1.5m+ subscribers and receive exclusive tools, tips, and resources directly from tim: type your email address yes, sign me up for tim's free email newsletter. i agree to the privacy policy. get access twitter instagram facebook youtube linkedin click to subscribe apple podcasts spotify overcast popular podcasts brené brown — striving versus self-acceptance, saving marriages, and more (#409) how to support healthcare workers now — plus urgent suggestions for uber eats, hilton, amazon, and more (#416) jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos (#414) the top 25 episodes of the tim ferriss show from 2019 most popular in writing and blogging 11 reasons not to become famous (or “a few lessons learned since 2007”) the best books and articles i read in 2019 finding the one decision that removes 100 decisions (or, why i’m reading no new books in 2020) the story of a curious phone call topics 30-day challenges (2) 4-hour case studies (50) automation (7) comfort challenges (4) dance (3) e-mail detox (23) entrepreneurship (60) fearless (2) filling the void (93) gadgets (15) geoarbitrage (8) interviews (29) investing (18) language (16) low-information diet (42) marketing (54) mental performance (42) mini-retirements (24) muse examples (9) nonsense (5) opening the kimono – otk (4) outsourcing life (17) physical performance (51) practical philosophy (39) presentations (3) protecting time (14) psychedelics (14) quarterly shipments (3) random (29) remote offices (7) rockstar living in… (5) rust and iron (2) science (5) the 4-hour body – 4hb (48) the 4-hour chef – 4hc (39) the 4-hour chef recipes (1) the book – 4hww (44) the slow-carb diet (4) the tim ferriss experiment – tfx (11) the tim ferriss show (394) the tim ferriss show transcripts (256) tim ferriss book club (6) tools of titans (8) travel (67) tribe of mentors (10) writing and blogging (35) books by tim ferriss the 4-hour workweek the 4-hour body the 4-hour chef tools of titans tribe of mentors we use cookies and similar technologies to run this website and help us understand how you use it. see our cookie policy here. sitemap site terms of service privacy policy copyright © 2007–2020 tim ferriss. the 4-hour® is a registered trademark of tim ferriss. all rights reserved. privacy policy proudly powered by wordpress | hosted by pressable send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.