skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation home / articles / emergency website kit author robin rendle comments start conversation published mar 27, 2020 eleventy netlify static sites personalized marketing with mailchimp here’s an outstanding idea from max böck. he’s created a boilerplate project for building websites that fit within a single http request. this is extremely important for websites that contain critical information for public safety. as max writes: in cases of emergency, many organizations need a quick way to publish critical information. but exisiting (cms) websites are often unable to handle sudden spikes in traffic. what’s so special about this boilerplate? well, it does smart stuff like: generates a static site using eleventy, uses minimal markup with inlined css, aims to transmit everything in the first connection roundtrip (~14kb), progressively enables offline-support with service workers, uses netlify cms for easy content editing, and provides one-click deployment via netlify to get off the ground quickly the example website that max built with this boilerplate is shockingly fast and i would go one step further to argue that all websites should feel as fast as this, not just websites that are useful in an emergency. direct link → our learning partner want to learn gatsby? frontend masters has some great courses on gatsby, starting with a great introduction to gatsby course from jason lengstorf and moving on to more advances courses. want to learn gatsby? frontend masters has some great courses on gatsby, starting with a great introduction to gatsby course from jason lengstorf and moving on to more advances courses. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. get the css-tricks newsletter notify me of follow-up comments by email. copy and paste this code: micuno * leave this field empty all comments are held for moderation. we'll publish all comments that are on topic, not rude, and adhere to our code of conduct. you'll even get little stars if you do an extra good job. you may write comments in markdown. this is the best way to post any code, inline like `<div>this</div>` or multiline blocks within triple backtick fences (```) with double new lines before and after. want to tell us something privately, like pointing out a typo or stuff like that? contact us. we have a code of conduct. be cool. be helpful. the web is a big place. have fun. high five. related how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers