skip to main content get the latest mercatus news follow everything happening at the mercatus center from week to week by subscribing to this week at mercatus. email * email facebook youtube twitter feed more on mercatus contact us join our team learn about us our leadership bridge home ideas & culture economic stability debt/spending entitlements financial markets monetary policy regulation taxes trade economic growth cronyism healthcare housing immigration innovation labor technology covid-19 programs corporate welfare f. a. hayek program financial markets government spending healthcare monetary policy regulation technology & innovation trade & immigration urban economics our scholars state by state research library main close the bridge bridge home ideas & culture economic stability debt/spending entitlements financial markets monetary policy regulation taxes trade economic growth cronyism healthcare housing immigration innovation labor technology research covid-19 programs corporate welfare f. a. hayek program financial markets government spending healthcare monetary policy regulation technology & innovation trade & immigration urban economics our scholars state by state research library students more on mercatus contact us join our team learn about us our leadership get the latest mercatus news get the latest in research, commentary, and more from mercatus scholars. email * email facebook youtube twitter feed main the bridge research students search form search search page donate bold ideas. transformative social change. apply now emergent ventures emergent ventures, a fellowship and grant program from the mercatus center, seeks to support entrepreneurs and brilliant minds with highly scalable, “zero to one” ideas for meaningfully improving society. launched with $1 million grant from the thiel foundation, the mission is to jumpstart high-risk, high-reward ideas that advance prosperity, opportunity, and wellbeing. the fellowship provides participants with the short-term resources and support to quickly develop and test their ideas. in addition to financial support, participants will have access to mentors and networks in the george mason community, such as mercatus’ faculty director, tyler cowen, and industry leaders across the country. emergent ventures is looking to make a bet on talented individuals with unique ideas for changing the world. sign up above to keep in touch. to apply for ev india, click the “apply now” button and select india from the “my project will affect” drop-down menu. click here to read the press release click here to listen to the podcast stay updated follow everything happening at the mercatus center from week to week by subscribing to this week at mercatus. each week, we will send you the latest in publications, media, and events featuring mercatus research and scholars. email * support mercatus your support allows us to continue bridging the gap between academic ideas and real-world policy solutions.donate follow us twitter facebook youtube support the mercatus center donate today! research areas corporate welfare f. a. hayek program financial markets government spending healthcare monetary policy regulation state by state technology and innovation trade and immigration urban economics jobs publications books policy briefings testimony and speeches research papers charts/data visualizations call for proposals people scholars affiliated scholars the bridge cronyism debt/spending entitlements financial markets healthcare housing ideas & culture immigration innovation labor monetary policy regulation taxes technology trade multimedia conversations with tyler macro musings student programs phd fellowship ma fellowship smith fellowship bastiat fellowship morgenstern fellowship connect email facebook twitter youtube rss privacy policy contact us © copyright 2020 mercatus center at george mason university, 3434 washington blvd, 4th floor, arlington, va 22201 toll-free phone: (800) 815-5711 - local phone: (703) 993-4930 - fax: (703) 993-4935 - media: (703) 993-4881