menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login emotional learning journey home→forums→emotional mastery→emotional learning journey new reply this topic contains 1 reply, has 2 voices, and was last updated by anita 1 day, 3 hours ago. viewing 2 posts - 1 through 2 (of 2 total) author posts march 26, 2020 at 10:22 am #345476 matthew participant hello anita. i’m ready for my journey 🙂 matthew march 26, 2020 at 10:48 am #345544 anita participant dear matthew: here you are! good to have you here. in this thread, you want to keep all identifying information about you away, no real names, no names of places, no identifying details about you and other people, such as age, that way you will feel more comfortable. plus i don’t need these details anyway. the emotional experience we have as children, we take that experience with us wherever we go, whatever we do, whomever we are with, years and decades into adulthood. if that emotional experience of childhood was not good, then we suffer throughout our adult lives, wherever, whenever, with whomever, no matter our financial situations etc. therefore, external details are of no interest to me. “i’m ready for my journey”, you declared. well, welcome to your journey. where do you think is best to start your journey? anita author posts viewing 2 posts - 1 through 2 (of 2 total) you must be logged in to reply to this topic. please log in or register. disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top