culture design basics culture design services end-to-end culture design™ culture walls™ ceo culture study case studies united states air force at&t toppel career center university of miami blog contact our team get inspired press menu gapingvoid culture design group search our work press the daily email - sign up for insights & inspiration! ceos who embrace high-purpose cultures make life better for everyone to succeed over the long-term, culture needs to be the driving force behind all aspects of corporate management. jason korman, ceo at gapingvoid culture design group a landmark study produced by my firm has confirmed what many of us knew in our guts all along—ceos who cultivate engagement and high-purpose cultures do better for investors, employees and themselves. our new report “culture as a management system: how ceos who lead high-purpose organizational cultures deliver remarkable business performance” draws on gapingvoid’s work with a wide range of clients including at&t, microsoft, the u.s. air force, and zappos, building on our own compiled data with proprietary analyses along with respected third-party studies. january 27, 2020 read more the benefits of framing culture as a management system by approaching managerial decisions through the lens of culture, leaders can make a bigger impact for the organization and its employees. corporate culture is undergoing a transformation. as organizations evolve and reinvent themselves in response to societal changes, new technologies, and competitive disruption, they’re finding that hierarchical cultures of the past must change as well. and while the shape and impact of corporate culture is changing in the 21st century, the role it can play as a determinant of success is not waning anytime soon. as the researchers of the mit smr/glassdoor culture 500 put it, “to survive and thrive in today’s market, a healthy corporate culture is more important than ever.” october 09, 2019 read more research shows companies do best when they encourage this kind of culture should a company be customer-obsessed like amazon or employee-focused like richard branson said? originally appeared on quora: the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world. answer by jason korman, ceo, gapingvoid culture design group, on quora: businesses do best when they’re built around high-purpose cultures, which are equally focused on both employees and customers. some skeptics think this is impossible, and that one or the other must end up taking precedence. but most of the time, business leaders can do right by their staff and the consumers they serve. october 7 2019 read more when ceos value employees, everyone wins when nearly 200 ceos from some of the nation’s largest corporations got together recently, they faced a big challenge. across the united states and in much of the world, there’s great distrust of corporate leaders—a distrust that’s growing along with ceo pay and levels of inequality. as scientific american has reported, “economic inequality negatively impacts nearly every aspect of human well-being.” many workers are finding that the system is rigged against them. the result of the meeting of the business roundtable was an official end to the organization’s stance, in place since 1997, that “corporations exist principally to serve their shareholders.” september 27 2019 read more calls for equality being heard by energy industry late last month, the company provided a $5 million grant to catalyst, a global nonprofit working toward workplace gender equality, to support its men advocating real change program. the midland location last year was one of chevron’s first to launch a marc program. the chevron women’s network and chevron chairman and chief executive officer mike wirth brought the program to the company in 2017. the company instituted a pilot program in houston, and it has expanded to seven chevron locations globally and includes more than 750 employees. it joins other employee networks at the midland campus, including a women’s network and black employees network that brings the workforce together with cultural events, networking, volunteering and speaker events. march 23, 2019 read more 8 things every person should do before 8 a.m. most people’s lives are a reflection of their past, rather than their future. for most people, today will look quite similar to tomorrow. 2019 will look similar to 2018. most people’s lives are highly predictable. and there’s a very good reason. your brain is quite literally a “prediction machine” designed to keep you from situations and scenarios filled with uncertainty and the possibility of failure. according to several psychologists, the foundation of all fears is the “unknown.” we want our lives to be predictable. we don’t want to deal with the intense emotions involved in doing something new and different. december 26 2018 read more this one strategy increased my email open rates and click throughs by more than 5 percent. jason korman is the ceo of gapingvoid, a culture design company that uses innovative methods to shape organizational behavior and effectiveness. one of their core methodologies is to use artwork to infuse cultural values into the minds and identities of employees. one of gapingvoid’s signature concepts is what they call, “culture walls,” which are pictures representing the cultural values and desired behaviors of a particular organization, which images are placed on walls throughout the organization. these images are created by the famed business writer and author, hugh macleod. october 18 2019 read more greater professionalism in an easier job market job-hunting isn’t like what it used to be. feelings of desperation have no place. you’ll become more human – more like yourself – and free yourself to be more professional by becoming aware of values, fine-tuning your self-knowledge, standing out with recruiters and interviewing with a new strategy. september 26 2018 read more these 20 pictures will teach you more than reading 100 books – by ben hardy “art isn’t only a painting. art is anything that’s creative, passionate, and personal. an artists is someone who uses bravery, insight, creativity, and boldness to challenge the status quo. art is a personal gift that changes the recipient. the medium doesn’t matter. the intent does. art is a personal act of courage, something one human does that creates change in another.”―seth godin the above image is my “culture wall,” created by gapingvoid, a company that helps people design their organizational culture. the art is done by hugh mcleod, who has drawn pictures for books by seth godin and many other influential individuals and companies. july 11 2018 read more this culture “tool” is being used by all of the best entrepreneurs for most executives, organizational culture has been a bit of a mystery. we read about companies with great cultures: zappos, rackspace, rei, southwest airlines, etc., but how did they create workplace environments that enabled their employees to be more efficient, passionate and effective? was it deliberate? if so, can it be repeated and designed? for ten years, gapingvoid culture design group has been working with some of the most culture-centric businesses in the world — seeing what works — and developing new approaches to design and scale what we call end-to-end culture design. in the midst of their tinkering and testing, gapingvoid has come up with something incredibly useful, scientific, artful, and effective. the tool they’ve developed is so effective that many of the leading entrepreneurs and organizations are using it. so what is it? it’s called the “culture wall.” 05/26/2018 read more are you ready to work with us? contact us home culture design services press our team blog contact us subscribe for free privacy policy © 2020 · gapingvoid