events resource center magazine contact us march 27, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: dreamforce marketing 101 coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise employment hiring, training, leading, compensating and retaining employees are among the biggest challenges in a small business. browse real-world advice, tips and resources on how to build a great team. 13 ways to make your new hires feel welcome being new at a company can be challenging. here are some ways you can help new hires feel more comfortable or connected. 23 hrs 44 mins 31 shares 22 secrets to hiring the right virtual assistant if you run a business, you know the many tasks, both interesting and mundane, which must be completed on a regular basis. if only you could find some help taking care of the tasks that, while important, could be handled by someone else. now you can. feb 25, 2020 557 shares how employers and independent contractors remain independent under ca ab5 here are some key things for businesses to consider in the face of challenges created by california's new freelancer law. feb 17, 2020 58 shares 10 tips for training your store employees employee training is one of the keys to retaining good employees. feb 4, 2020 81 shares a history of suits for the office suits have changed quite a bit over the years but one thing remains consistent: they always mean business. jan 13, 2020 62 shares 12 small business positions that should be full time part-time staff can be a major help, especially for a business still getting off of the ground, but they're not always the best fit for a role. here are some things to consider. dec 26, 2019 75 shares small businesses falling behind in employee satisfaction are you doing enough to keep your employees happy as a small business owner? dec 16, 2019 84 shares 3 important steps to address employee needs in your business when hiring someone, look for your leader first. dec 4, 2019 69 shares how to solve your hiring problems resolve your hiring pain points with these tips. nov 29, 2019 78 shares what is ghosting and how can small tech companies avoid it? ghosting is making hiring for small businesses even more of a challenge. nov 21, 2019 55 shares how to become a virtual assistant imagine a business where you help others grow their business. virtual assistants provide a great benefit to entrepreneurs and are entrepreneurs themselves. nov 19, 2019 66 shares the history and future of the gig economy the future of the gig economy is looking strong. nov 12, 2019 71 shares 1 2 3 … 73 next → subscribe follow @smallbiztrends rss linkedin pinterest itunes subscribe to our newsletter submit report this ad coronavirus biz advice coronavirus disrupting small business conference circuit view all report this ad small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit