home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership encore episode: how to fix new year’s resolutions michael and megan 00:31:31 download transcript all of us, especially leaders, want to make positive change in our lives. but we’ve tried and failed many times. we’ll show you why new year’s resolutions are a flawed system, and how to set achievable personal goals instead. you can avoid that sick feeling every january, and create a new habit or achievement that will change your life for good. in this episode, you will: understand why new year’s resolutions fail 92 percent of the time. find out why resolutions feel like authentic change but aren’t. learn how to make goals that are actionable—not just aspirational. discover the little-known problem that inhibits personal change. receive an effective blueprint for an achievable goal. gain the internal motivation to make this your best year ever. once you’ve heard this episode, here’s your next step. take your resolution for next year—even if it’s just a vague aspiration at this point—and line it up against the smarter™ goal achievement framework. you’ll be well on your way to making that goal a reality! achieve together do you know someone who is set on improving their life this year? do your friend a favor and share this episode with them. you can use one of the share links in the sidebar, or drop the link to this page in your favorite social media channel. be sure to use the hashtag #leadtowin. your friend will thank you. and you’ll both benefit from the power of community. resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe posted on tuesday, december 31, 2019 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed