culture design basics culture design services end-to-end culture design™ culture walls™ ceo culture study case studies united states air force at&t toppel career center university of miami blog contact our team get inspired press menu gapingvoid culture design group search our work the daily email - sign up for insights & inspiration! end-to-end culture design™ end-to-end culture design™ the way to build and sustain a remarkable culture more engaged organizations consistently outperform their competitors. high-purpose cultures are not random, they are deliberate. culture design™ is a methodology that provides the mental models and frameworks that allow organizations to solve their toughest human-centered challenges while also creating positive, productive cultures that deliver business outcomes at scale. culture design is based upon culture science, an anti-disciplinary approach to change based on social and behavioral sciences, neuroscience, and management science. culture science is the foundation of gapingvoid’s end-to-end culture design culture science™ assessments engagement surveys are largely based upon the flawed assumption that if we measure the state of employee engagement, we can improve culture. the flaw in the thinking is that without the tools and tactics to take action on the data, without the frameworks to plan and execute change, the data itself is of little value. measurement is not a solution. this is precisely why, according to gallup, engagement across the globe has largely flatlined since the ’90s. there is plenty of assessing, but very few solutions to change outcomes. it’s time to reframe the problem so it can finally be solved. the culture science approach is to assess in order to obtain the data we need to design the change. culture science assessments collect narrative and quantitative data that reveal the experiences your employees are having at work. this is done at scale by extracting rich data sets and trends that reveal what people are doing, thinking, loving and loathing about their work. these vibrant insights inform an end-to-end culture design strategy that points the way towards creating a high-purpose culture. gapingvoid culture change model: design a high-purpose culture without design, organizational culture is random. culture design creates a scalable model for executing an aligned and unified future that tracks to your industry and business type and strategy. it connects the business vision to the emotional state of stakeholders, forming a movement that drives business outcomes. high-purpose culture™ is designed based on a new model we developed with bj fogg at stanford behavior design lab. high purpose cultures are rooted in two main factors: future motivated state. as a leader, you must answer the question: why should each employee and stakeholder be excited about showing up each day? what is your motivating north star? articulated beliefs. a collection of beliefs, mindsets, values, mental models and other factors that, when taken together, inform how people should be doing their work. both fms and ab are codified and take shape in the form of tools that are used to socialize the norms that you want your people to adopt. it is the relentless socialization of these factors that informs and shapes your culture. this model has been successfully executed at scale in scores of organizations of different sizes across many industries. are you ready to design a high-purpose culture? culture change is an outcome. culture design is how you get there. are you ready to work with us? contact us home culture design services press our team blog contact us subscribe for free privacy policy © 2020 · gapingvoid