engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login roku is giving away 30 days of premium video netflix is working on a live-action 'dragon's lair' movie capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas latest in av netflix is working on a live-action 'dragon's lair' movie 1h ago view capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas 3h ago view sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 5h ago view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field 6h ago view image credit: engadget podcasts the top stories of the day, now in audio form. engadget, @engadget 08.01.19 11 shares share tweet share sponsored links engadget morning edition readers already know and love engadget's daily newsletter, the morning after. now, we're bringing the news to your ears. join uk bureau chief mat smith for a rundown of the day's top headlines -- because who doesn't love hearing a silky english accent first thing in the morning? since we're producing this audio in the future, in a distant place called london, we promise we'll always have our recordings ready by the time our american listeners start their days. subscribe: apple podcasts | spotify | google play | iheart radio the engadget podcast the engadget podcast is back and ready to explore how tech is helping (and hurting) our lives. senior editor devindra hardawar and reviews editor cherlynn low dive into a big question every week: is microsoft making better pcs than apple? what's the state of android versus ios? expect to hear the rest of the engadget crew, along with the occasional expert guest, as we analyze the tech landscape and chat about timely topics. subscribe: apple podcasts | pocket casts | google play | iheart radio engadget news here at engadget, we cover consumer tech from every angle. sometimes that means we publish more than 40 posts in a single day. it's a lot, and sometimes you're just too busy showering, commuting and filling out tps reports to read a news story. to keep up with your hectic schedule, we're posting audio versions of select news stories, so that you can still get the gist even when you're too busy to look up from what you're doing. subscribe: apple podcasts | spotify | google play | iheart radio have a smart speaker? try saying, "alexa, open engadget" or "hey google, talk to engadget." in this article: av all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. 11 shares share tweet share popular on engadget the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view facebook introduces new livestreaming features as demand skyrockets view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr