engadget ← customer feedback for aol this forum is a place where engadget readers can leave feedback for our engineering team about our desktop and mobile sites. we’re always trying to give you guys a better experience, and user comments are a great place to start. drop us a line, and remember: the more specific your feedback, the better. (oh, and be nice, please!) as a heads-up, this forum isn’t for giving feedback on our editorial content, but you’re always welcome to leave comments on stories and videos. (again, be nice!) while we can’t respond to every reader suggestion, we do read and consider every piece of feedback we receive. feel free to send us a note — we’ll be happy to hear from you. to learn more about our parent company’s feedback policy, go here. how can we improve engadget? enter your idea (thinking…) reset enter your idea and we'll search to see if someone has already suggested it. if a similar idea already exists, you can support and comment on it. if it doesn't exist, you can post your idea so others can support it. enter your idea and we'll search to see if someone has already suggested it. category (optional) entertainment gaming gear reviews the buyer's guide tomorrow video describe your idea… (optional) sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close post idea cancel submitting... vote for an existing idea () or post a new idea… hot ideas top ideas new ideas category entertainment (3) gaming (2) gear (2) reviews (10) the buyer's guide (0) tomorrow (1) video (4) status duplicate (2) my feedback bring android app back engadget android app has disappeared from google play store (eu) 2nd ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 3 comments · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · delete… · admin → make "morning after" emails responsive. subject says it all. 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 1 comment · reviews · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → bring back the engadget app for iphone the engadget app has been removed from ios for some time now and no talk or alternative has been provided. i been using the app that was released and updated 2 years ago and it's in serious need of an update 1st ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 11 comments · entertainment · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · delete… · admin → redirecting to guce.advertising.com when i try to read a story i look at this site while at work, and i guce.advertising.com is blocked. for example: https://guce.advertising.com/collectidentifiers?sessionid=1cc-session02230267-8175-4929-be85-01131bd282a8 you used to do this when going to the home page, but removed it, now its on every story... 4th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 1 comment · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · delete… · admin → please review the app copylistlt please review the ios app copylistlt. it lets you remember text & paste them in any other app or web form. it lets you organize the texts into categories, search for them, back up & restore. the user interface is super easy to use & has a retro look of when ios first came out. looks neat & fun to use. also free. https://www.google.com.ph/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=2ahukewi9vnun-jpoahvmexakhthnbdmqfjaaegqibhab&url=https%3a%2f%2fapps.apple.com%2fus%2fapp%2fcopylistlt-copy-paste-remember-list%2fid491856284&usg=aovvaw3v5zdifri6iicjp2kpsgbt 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · reviews · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → get rid of the autoplaying videos asap. i was looking up ipad mini reviews. i found what looked like a good review on your site, but within seconds of the page loading, it started playing a video. i left, and i won't be back. i don't understand why you have them. people hate these things, without exception. they're obnoxious. they can be embarrassing if you're in a room with other people. they're a really disrespectful thing to have on your site. please get rid of these things. 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → hyperlinks that work in the good old days when you clicked on a hyperlink, it took you to an explanation or an article that was what the hyperlink represented. i started clicking articles in the daily newsletter and what do i get? for every link on the email, they all take me to the exact same page where you have to hunt for the article that you want to read. seems counterproductive to me. why do your jobs, when you can get your readers to do it for you. 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · reviews · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → push to talk vs. two way mobile radios -positionptt push to talk vs. two way mobile radios - positionptt positionptt push-to-talk two way mobile radio communication network push to talk is often confused as being the same thing as a two way radio. while it is true that two way radios use push to talk communication (think walkie-talkies), push to talk or ptt is a feature that can be added on to a cell phone plan for use on your cell phone. two way radios on the other hand, are simply two way radios, with no additional features. one of them is position push to talk two way mobile communication network push-to-talk radio – th-388 the next generation of the push to talk over cellular walkie-talkie is here, with the position ptt 4g lte radio. the th-388 features a rugged design, with color display, and allows you to communicate securely and privately to groups and individual users, with the push of a button. push-to-talk two way mobile radio communication for any industry positionptt offers an all-digital nationwide push-to-talk network designed to meet the needs of any business in any industry. our solutions will improve your company’s communications and increase workforce productivity, while saving you thousands of dollars a month on your current cellphone bill… guaranteed. leveraging the speed of 4g lte, positionptt two-way radios allow you to instantly communicate across the country or around the globe. our devices and dispatch console come ready to use out of the box and our team of experts are here to assist with setup and support. regardless of your company’s industry, location, or size we have the perfect solution for you. but don’t take our word for it. we invite you to try us out and see for yourself how our 4g lte push-to-talk system will benefit your organization. all of our products come with a no questions asked 30-day money back guarantee. push to talk vs. two way mobile radios - positionptt positionptt push-to-talk two way mobile radio communication network push to talk is often confused as being the same thing as a two way radio. while it is true that two way radios use push to talk communication (think walkie-talkies), push to talk or ptt is a feature that can be added on to a cell phone plan for use on your cell phone. two way radios on the other hand, are simply two way radios, with no additional features. one of them is position push to talk two way mobile… more 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · reviews · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → signing in without needing a code every time your preferences say "how you sign in you receive a one time password in email to sign in." but this is not true. every time i get a news letter i need to log in i need to go back to my email to get a 4 digit code to log in. every time. not only is it very annoying, it literally stops me from even visiting the site. so unless you'd rather me (and likely many possibly most of your other readers) just not visit becuase its just not worth the trouble on this story than fine. but if money is still important, then you might want to make some ui changes that make life easier. your preferences say "how you sign in you receive a one time password in email to sign in." but this is not true. every time i get a news letter i need to log in i need to go back to my email to get a 4 digit code to log in. every time. not only is it very annoying, it literally stops me from even visiting the site. so unless you'd rather me (and likely many possibly most of your other readers) just not visit becuase its just not worth the trouble on this story than fine. but if… more 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → apple airpod pro tip gate multiple users on reddit and macrumor report quality issues with the tips of the airpod pro's. the silicon is not sealing airtight anymore after a couple of days, causing the airpods to not only fail the fitting test but also lose its bass and noice cancelling functionality. https://www.reddit.com/r/apple/comments/e056hg/airpodsprotip_gate/ 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 1 comment · gear · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → take a look at curb (home energy management) newer smart home product that monitors energy in the home (energycurb.com). can be used with or without solar to management what is being used in the home. 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 1 comment · tomorrow · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · delete… · admin → write about how instagram ceashes on xiaomi phones every review of a xiaomi phone should mention that their stupid miui thing doesn't really work with instagram. xiaomi had known about it for years and doesn't care. if you want to use instagram, you shouldn't buy xiaomi! it's your duty to inform the consumers! 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 1 comment · reviews · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · delete… · admin → stop redirecting to facebook when i click on a link. stop redirecting to facebook when i click on a link. i don't appreciate the need to click on a link multiple times until it finally opens the actual target instead of trying to get me to log into facebook. 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → can´t watch videos on full screen. using imac with safari (updated) can´t watch videos on full screen. using imac with safari (updated) 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · video · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → 2: s.blogsmithmedia.com 1: links in my rss feed produce a page that must be scrolled several pages to get to the linked article. then, another link must be followed to get the article. what foolishness has happened to your new site! 2: slow as molassas in winter! mygod! fix the **** snail-paced speed! 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → stop pausing videos when browser tab is not active i often want to listen to the video articles on engadget without having the specific browser tab open, while i work. for some unknown reason, you guys don't seem to have this optional. i really don't understand why and it's causing me to engage less on your site. 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · video · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → conduct open ended user surveys for popular new products i want nintendo to know how much they killed their brand with the new horrible mobile mario kart. it's more than short term revenue. in the eyes of many, they are irreparably damaging their legacy and their future. i'm going to be wary of any future systems they release because they are trying to ***** their users with watered down, money grab mobile games. my suggestion for your site to include open ended user surveys is so companies who have much expected of them have accountability. complaints to their user forums go into a black hole. the ceos are shielded from negative customer emails. publicly displaying true customer sentiment on engadget will turn the tides! thank you. i want nintendo to know how much they killed their brand with the new horrible mobile mario kart. it's more than short term revenue. in the eyes of many, they are irreparably damaging their legacy and their future. i'm going to be wary of any future systems they release because they are trying to ***** their users with watered down, money grab mobile games. my suggestion for your site to include open ended user surveys is so companies who have much expected of them have accountability. complaints to their user forums go into a black hole. the ceos are shielded… more 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · reviews · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → why cover politics? the country is split in half. why include politics in engadget? don’t ruin a great thing. 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → remove google+ need to remove deprecated google+ icon, as service is gone in history ((( 11th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · reviews · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · edit… · delete… · admin → please make the morning after emails full screen i love getting the morning after email each day but unlike every other email i get it is not “full screen”. it would be super if the email was expanded to fill the screen side to side. again, all other emails i get from companies full the screen, just not yours. thank you for your consideration and for all the hard work you do. we love engadget. 4th ranked vote vote vote sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close vote we’ll send you updates on this idea 0 comments · flag idea as inappropriate…flag idea as inappropriate… · delete… · admin → ← previous 1 2 3 next → don't see your idea? post a new idea… new and returning users may sign in sign in prestine your name your email address (thinking…) password sign in with: facebook google forgot password? create a password i agree to the terms of service signed in as (sign out) close close sign in sign in sign up cancel feedback engadget categories post a new idea… all ideas my feedback entertainment 3 gaming 2 gear 2 reviews 10 tomorrow 1 video 4 feedback and knowledge base search search (thinking…) reset searching… no results. clear search results give feedback aol app for android 318 ideas aol app for ios 173 ideas aol app* 9 ideas aol desktop gold 246 ideas aol desktop gold de 191 ideas aol finance 13 ideas aol games 69 ideas aol help 8 ideas aol mail 504 ideas aol mail noble 0 ideas aol search 17 ideas aol shield pro 6 ideas aol subscriptions and plans 11 ideas aol uk 9 ideas aol.com 203 ideas aol.com bucket test 216 ideas assist by aol 2 ideas autoblog 48 ideas cashay 0 ideas engadget 49 ideas techcrunch 23 ideas techcrunch extra crunch 7 ideas aol aol · terms · feedback policy · privacy · remove my feedback your password has been reset we have made changes to increase our security and have reset your password. we've just sent you an email to . click the link to create a password, then come back here and sign in. continue