welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog edx and purdue university launch fully online master’s of electrical and computer engineering published on: sep 30, 2019 by anant agarwal 3966 views 4 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post edx is pleased to announce the launch of an online master’s in electrical and computer engineering from purdue university school of electrical and computer engineering. the program is designed for learners that want to gain deep knowledge in electrical and computer engineering, with the option to choose from seven broad tracks. this program is ranked the #5 online graduate engineering program according to u.s. news... read more about edx and purdue university launch fully online master’s of electrical and computer engineering congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! published on: aug 20, 2019 by nina huntemann 7049 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i am thrilled to announce the 10 finalists for the fourth annual edx prize for exceptional contributions in online teaching and learning! the edx prize celebrates the contributions and innovations of educators in the edx community, and amplifies the powerful role that online learning plays in the transformation of education today. last year, in boston at the edx global forum, university of queensland professors blake... read more about congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! asking questions, solving puzzles: meet farhanah published on: jul 09, 2019 by livia halltari 1696 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post welcome to the latest installment of edx insider, where we take you behind the scenes at edx hq. today we chat with farhanah, engineering manager, sustaining & escalations, about the things that make edx unique, what inspired her to pursue an engineering career, the best course she’s ever taken, and more. quick stats name: farhanah sheets department/role: engineering manager, sustaining & escalations hometown: singapore /... read more about asking questions, solving puzzles: meet farhanah reskilling to adapt to changes in his job responsibilities: meet zvonimir published on: jun 26, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 2711 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what program did you take on edx, and what were your goals in taking it? i took the electric cars professional certificate program from tu delft. i am an electrical engineer and work as an energy advisor in regional energy agency north in croatia. since one of the agency’s activities is e-mobility and since we previously purchased nissan leaf through eu project “evcc”, there was... read more about reskilling to adapt to changes in his job responsibilities: meet zvonimir ar recreation of apollo 11 mission in celebration of 50th anniversary of moon landing published on: jun 17, 2019 by livia halltari 7580 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post edx and the john f. kennedy presidential library have partnered to bring an exciting experience to the edx community. in celebration of the 50th anniversary of the first moon landing, the john f. kennedy presidential library is launching the jfk moonshot, a first-of-its-kind augmented reality app experience. from july 16th to the 20th, the app will provide users anywhere in the world the opportunity to... read more about ar recreation of apollo 11 mission in celebration of 50th anniversary of moon landing words of advice for aspiring engineers: meet bessie published on: jun 06, 2019 by livia halltari 1761 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post welcome back to edx insider, a series where we find out more about people at edx hq. today, we chat with bessie, software engineer, as she tells us about the best career advice she’s received, her own advice for aspiring software engineers, and more. quick stats name: bessie steinberg role and department: software engineer, enterprise (b2b) hometown: farmington, ct favorite song: i think my favorite... read more about words of advice for aspiring engineers: meet bessie pursuing new interests and a master’s degree: meet bertram published on: may 06, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 1987 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what program did you take on edx, and what were your goals in taking it? i started taking tu delft’s first solar energy mooc, back in 2013. following that, in 2017 i enrolled in the solar energy engineering micromasters® program from the same university. my university didn’t have a particular focus on solar, and i was eager to learn about it elsewhere, which is how... read more about pursuing new interests and a master’s degree: meet bertram how to start your stem career – six engineering courses published on: mar 24, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 10362 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in a series of four blog posts, we’ll be highlighting courses available on edx that you can take as your first steps towards exploring and learning stem – science, technology, engineering and math – skills. read the first two blogs featuring science and technology courses. engineers use math, science and technology to solve real world problems. it is a major growth field, and job seekers... read more about how to start your stem career – six engineering courses software engineers: what they do and how to become one published on: feb 20, 2019 by jerry hamedi 18933 views 3 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post groundbreaking technology is only groundbreaking for so long. new is constantly replacing old, as demand for growth is constant. both individuals and organizations look to utilize the latest technology, in turn creating demand for software engineers who make many of these advancements possible. think about the last time you used excel online, photoshop, itunes, or even google chrome. they were all constructed by software engineers.... read more about software engineers: what they do and how to become one edx welcomes ibm published on: aug 08, 2018 by johannes heinlein 5655 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are honored to announce that ibm, the largest technology and consulting employer in the world, has joined the global community of edx partners. ibm is defined by its commitment to constant innovation and its culture of lifelong learning, and edx is excited to be working together to further this shared commitment. we are thrilled to bring ibm’s courses to edx learners, who are looking... read more about edx welcomes ibm page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close