home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources category: engineering read more engineering / featured #121: kesha lake – how a mom from atlanta became a remote software engineer at stitch fix by julio rodriguez on january 6, 2020 born and raised in los angeles, kesha lake is a member of the career karma community from atlanta. she joined career karma in the beginning of 2019. less than a year later, she got a… read more engineering / featured #111: ameer brown – coding bootcamp graduate who is a software quality engineer at adobe by julio rodriguez on march 25, 2019 ameer brown is a software quality engineer at adobe. he talks about what it takes to be a successful engineer at adobe. outside of work ameer also organizes parties. he also covers how that helped… read more engineering / featured #104: leanne pittsford – founder of lesbians who tech & tech jobs tour by timur meyster on november 2, 2018 there are half a million open tech jobs, and yet, diversity in tech continues to be a problem. the key is in building relationships and connecting people with the right companies that need their skills… read more engineering / featured #103: madelyn tavarez – how a part-time bootcamp helped her become an android engineer by timur meyster on october 24, 2018 our guest on the podcast has a remarkable story. madelyn tavarez did a part-time bootcamp, while holding a full-time job. she taught herself how to code. and became a software engineer at pinterest now building… read more engineering / featured / founders #102: austen allred – ceo of lambda school by timur meyster on october 10, 2018 austen allred is the ceo and co-founder of lambda school. recently coming out of y combinator, lambda now has thousands of students. prior to this, he served as a growth expert at lendup. lambda school… read more engineering / featured / founders #101: avi flombaum – co-founder of flatiron school by timur meyster on october 2, 2018 avi flombaum is a lifelong educator. he is the co-founder of flatiron school, which grew to thousands of students and got acquired by wework. prior to starting flatiron school, avi also built several companies. avi’s… read more engineering / featured #100: david harris – how an app academy graduate became a software engineer at omada health by timur meyster on september 21, 2018 moving from atlanta to the bay area, from being a writer, artist, to a mathematician, david harris completed app academy and became a software engineer. by combining hard work and the power of networking, david… read more engineering / featured #99: iris nevins – teacher who became a software engineer at mailchimp by timur meyster on september 14, 2018 in 2017, iris nevins decided to leave her work as a teacher in florida to attend a bootcamp in the bay area – but it was not without its own struggles. iris believes that when… read more engineering / featured / founders #98: galvanize’s acquisition of hack reactor – al rosabal & shawn drost by timur meyster on september 4, 2018 galvanize and hack reactor have now merged to become bigger and better in the bootcamp space. with the merger, shawn who is the cofounder of hack reactor and a returning guest on the podcast, is… next subscribe be the first to get the latest breaking into startups podcast updates, right to your inbox. we’ll never spam you. our guests came from: about us the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds.our mission is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. facebook twitter instagram © 2020 breaking into startups. privacy policy top join 1,055 other subscribers! email subscribe now we respect your privacy. join our newsletter today! stay updated with all the latest episodes, upcoming events & much more. hack reactor prep prepare for any coding bootcam (free) learn more no thanks!