welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog the employability skills checklist published on: jul 10, 2019 by david mcpherson 34750 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we’ve taken 6 key employability skills and matched them with free online courses to help you build your resume and further your career. no matter what job you are applying for, possessing excellent skills in these 6 areas will help you stand out from the crowd and get hired. 1. communication skills excellent written and verbal communication skills are paramount to getting a job. reading... read more about the employability skills checklist 5 reasons to register for the toefl® mooc published on: sep 28, 2017 by educational testing service 13962 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post these reasons come to you from the educational testing service. it’s your all-access pass to the toefl ibt® test. this six-week course will get you up to speed on the sections of the test, the skills we test, how the test is scored, and how scores are used by higher education institutions, colleges and universities. it was designed by the experts who created the test.... read more about 5 reasons to register for the toefl® mooc get ahead this fall: credit eligible courses published on: aug 17, 2017 by rachel lapal 10478 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post fall is approaching in some parts of the world and that means many things; football season, changing foliage, warmer clothes and the start of a new school year. it could also be the first step to a college degree thanks to arizona state university’s (asu) and edx’s global freshman academy (gfa). gfa is offering a variety of unique online courses this fall allowing you to jump... read more about get ahead this fall: credit eligible courses get college ready with 8 great edx courses published on: jun 15, 2017 by sara reich 4835 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post if you’re starting college soon, it’s important to make sure you’re prepared for your classes by refreshing your knowledge of the fundamentals or learning something new. explore these 8 prep and introductory courses on edx to kick-start or restart your college career! 12 courses learners love published on: feb 14, 2017 by sara reich 8465 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post celebrate your love for learning today, we celebrate love of all types, including the love of learning. hearing from our learners inspires us everyday, especially when they share their favorite courses. check out these 12 courses learners love. 1. the science of happiness – ucberkeleyx (self-paced) learner rating: 4.5/5 2. world of wine: from grape to glass – adelaidex (self-paced) learner rating:... read more about 12 courses learners love what online courses should i take to prepare for college? published on: jan 16, 2017 by alice randall 10193 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post refine your writing and language skills get ahead in computer science refresh your math knowledge learn how to effectively communicate train your brain to think critically if you’re headed to college later this year, it’s likely that you’ve already completed your application forms, sat entrance exams and will (hopefully!) accept an offer to attend a school. you might think you’ve done all you can to... read more about what online courses should i take to prepare for college? 10 most popular edx courses in 2016 published on: dec 15, 2016 by jerry hamedi 44788 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post as the year comes to a close, we take a look back at our ten most popular courses of 2016, as selected by you, our learners. our list, based on total enrollments and learner ratings, showcases your favorite courses and what you’ve had to say about them: 10. the science of happiness – uc berkeleyx (starts january 3, self-paced) learner rating: 4.5/5 “this was an incredible experience.... read more about 10 most popular edx courses in 2016 improve your writing skills with 6 free online courses published on: nov 08, 2016 by david mcpherson 227565 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post words are powerful. they inspire greatness and effect change. they start movements and empower leaders. they have the power to get you hired, get you promoted and, if used incorrectly, get you fired. combine the power of words with the ease and speed of email and social distribution in the digital age and one can quickly see that it has never been more important to... read more about improve your writing skills with 6 free online courses how to write an effective cv – 5 steps from the experts published on: sep 07, 2016 by keenan manning 62063 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this guest post was written by keenan manning, a project associate at the english language centre of the hong kong polytechnic university. keenan is part of the team in the upcoming english at work in asia: job applications, cvs and cover letters, and english at work in asia: preparing for a job interview on edx, starting as self-paced on 12 september 2016. you’ve seen an advertisement for... read more about how to write an effective cv – 5 steps from the experts 5 essential work from home job skills published on: aug 12, 2016 by monil shah 20051 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post “choose a job you love and you will never have to work a day in your life.” when confucius said that, it was 551-479 bc and transportation costs were probably the last thing on his mind. in the pursuit of finding the perfect job, the length of the commute or your ability to pick up and move can be a real barrier. while it’s possible... read more about 5 essential work from home job skills page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close