menu home news frederic debreu sex and bowls english chansons jonnyb contact english chansons (the resurrection of frédéric debreu) https://youtu.be/zbahnnmq3s8 amazon (cd) cd/book package lyrics & credits "brings the creations of monsieur debreu to life absolutely brilliantly and with an air of total authenticity..." - fatea magazine. john watterson with paul & will thompson stories of love and longing; of grieving widows and of small-town rogues. a withering of the pompous; a celebration of the good things in life. witty, satirical, occasionally heartbreaking; all steeped in the rural romance of frédéric debreu’s beloved thorigny region. for the first time ever, a selection of m. debreu’s classic songs have been recorded in english and are presented here for your enjoyment. brought to life by the rich voice of john watterson, with tasteful guitar and double-bass arrangements by paul and will thompson, the eleven tracks are certain to delight the aficionado of france’s most obscure and neglected chansonnier. order now... john watterson (vocals) john watterson is the leading performer of the uk’s own greatest chansonnier: jake thackray. john has toured nationally with fairport convention, performed an acclaimed twenty-date run at the edinburgh fringe, featured on national and local radio, and supported legends ralph mctell, richard digance and vin garbutt – amongst many more of his music heroes. paul thompson (guitar); will thompson (producer/double bass) paul thompson is a guitarist, songwriter and champion of good chanson. he was the producer of the acclaimed dvd of bbc recordings, jake thackray and songs, and, with john watterson, released in 2016 the much admired album the lost will and testament of jake thackray, for which he both played guitar, and wrote music and words for, some of thackray’s unfinished songs. will thompson is a musician, producer and sound designer with a love of all things aural. he is currently studying for a ba in theatre sound at the royal central school of speech and drama. his production work on john watterson’s the lost will and testament of jake thackray, drew praise from thackray's friend and contemporary, singer-songwriter ralph mctell. full lyrics & credits... copyright (c) 2017 by alex marsh