australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video religion 03/23/2020 20:19 edt english priest is on fire in first online worship service. literally. rev. stephen beach met his match while filming a service from home after his church suspended its gatherings over the coronavirus pandemic. by carol kuruvilla, huffpost us a british priest’s first foray into the world of digital worship turned out to be a baptism by fire. rev. stephen beach accidentally set his sweater ablaze while filming part of st. budeaux parish church’s sunday service from his home in southwest england on thursday. “oh, dear, i’ve just caught fire,” beach can be heard saying in a youtube video before quickly blowing out the flames. “oh, my word.” beach told huffpost that thursday was the first time his parish attempted to put its entire worship service online. he had learned how to use youtube “from scratch” just that morning, he said. like many houses of worship in the u.k., st. budeaux parish church has indefinitely suspended communal worship services in an effort to combat the spread of covid-19, the illness caused by a novel strain of coronavirus. the church of england, to which st. budeaux belongs, has called on its parishes to live-stream services if they have the resources to do so. after filming the first four parts of the service separately, beach positioned himself by a candleholder with five lighted candles for the point in the liturgy when parishioners are called to pause and wait for jesus to speak to them. beach said he initially thought the candles would help illustrate the message that jesus’s cross is a light in the darkness. he was also aiming for variety with the setting, he said, after filming the first parts of the service standing up. but seconds after he started recording, a flame began creeping up his arm. “i just felt my arm getting warmer and warmer and looked down to see flames,” he wrote in an email. “there was a bad smell too!” though his sweater and shirt have holes in them, beach said that he didn’t get hurt in the incident. “i did not get burned at all! (only my pride!)” he wrote. stephen beach / youtube holy smokes! rev. stephen beach accidentally set himself on fire filming a worship service from his home. in the end, the priest decided to stay out of the picture for the last portion of the recorded service ― filming the cross and candles reflected in his glass door instead. beach said his wife and daughter burst out laughing when they saw a video of the blooper. his daughter was the one who published it to youtube, he said. “i am glad, though, that she did ― it has caused lots of fun and laughter in a strange and difficult time,” he said. “i have had some great and funny emails from friends and colleagues, and it has helped cheer lots of people up.” “my youngest grandchildren ask when granddad is going to set himself on fire again,” he said. a huffpost guide to coronavirus read our live blog for the latest updates from huffpost reporters around the world the world is facing a crucial test this week in flattening the curve 8 things people diagnosed with coronavirus want you to know how to grocery shop for a quarantine doctors answer the most common coronavirus questions health care workers are struggling with a shortage of protective gear 27 comfort shows to watch while self-isolating the huffpost guide to working from home 10 ways to practice solidarity while social distancing what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers.﻿ suggest a correction carol kuruvilla religion reporter, huffpost more: coronavirus england social distancing parish church trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.