ent for children nj doctor digital marketing | website design & seo think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 ent for children marketing ent for children (dr. daniel samadi) helps more children with a content building and local seo campaign. daniel s. samadi, m.d. is a board-certified and fellowship-trained otolaryngologist with extensive expertise in treating ear, nose, and throat disorders web design seo the challenge ent for children (dr. daniel samadi) wanted to grow website traffic and increase their client base in the ultra-competitive north new jersey medical market. located in central paramus, nj, dr. samadi had over a dozen competitors within a 5 mile radius. ent for children needed an aggressive seo campaign to increase their website presence and land above their competitors. the plan create unique content pages to increase search engine exposure. perform on-page seo optimizations to increase organic rankings. launch an aggressive seo campaign to outrank the competition and increase both referral and organic traffic. the results 0% increase in total site traffic 0% increase in referral traffic 0% increase in organic traffic 0% increase in page views 0% increase in leads ent for children before & after responsive website redesign showcase ent for children presents mobile users with a complete immersive website for pediatric services ent for children obtained total custom site with engaging features displayed via laptop ent for children gives tablet users a user friendly website to navigate get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha phone this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials alex really is excellent at marketing and since i have joined, our business has tripled this month. he really cares about his clients growth. being a new business growing my business slow and steady with smartsites is by far one of the wisest choices that i have made! lifestyle directives group shari wasserman view 100+ more testimonials i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials after a nightmare experience with other marketing companies, i finally found a hard working group who actually know what they are doing. they handle all of my ads as and designed a website. business has doubled since we started. looking forward to more success. agape health wellness center dr. larry bennett view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: case studies ent for children recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect