managed dns premium dns ddos protected dns geodns dns failover private dns servers services secondary dns reverse dns managed dns anycast dns enterprise dns dynamic dns domain names ssl certificates ddos protected vps company about us news contacts data centers feedback careers partnership affiliate program resellers api knowledgebase blog wiki features faq http api whmcs module payment methods 0 sign in english русский deutsch français română български español português italiano polski slovenský українська türkçe 日本語 हिंदी bahasa indonesia 简体中文 繁體中文 tiếng việt فارسی managed dns premium dns ddos protected dns geodns dns failover private dns servers services secondary dns reverse dns managed dns anycast dns enterprise dns dynamic dns domain names ssl certificates ddos protected vps company about us news contacts data centers feedback careers partnership affiliate program resellers api knowledgebase blog wiki features faq http api whmcs module payment methods why you need enterprise dns? operate one or more domains that absolutely must have 100% dns availability? use more than a million queries per month? manage more than 1,000 records into a single dns zone? instant dns changes propagation? protection from dns-based ddos attacks? the speed must be the best possible for the whole world? white-label dns service with dedicated ips? 24/7 support 100% dns availability the traditional dns service providers manage multiple servers with unique ip addresses and physical locations. when one dns server is down, it cannot be reached by the visitors and they are getting large timeouts (few seconds). cloudns operates own anycast dns network over 27 data centers located in multiple continents around the world. forget about downtime and performance issues - our anycast network has multiple geographically dispersed servers that reroute traffic from any pops when there are issues that impair performance. our goal is to provide the highest sla when possible. the enterprise dns provided by us is covered by 10,000% sla. millions of dns queries per month most of the managed dns providers bill their customers based on the processed dns queries per month. lower ttl, marketing campaigns, spam or other type of dns floods can generate thousands of dollars for dns queries at the end of the month or even your domain name can stop working, because reached monthly limit of dns queries. our enterprise dns network is designed to process millions of queries each second. our pricing model is not based on query billing. you will be never billed for your peaks and your domain names will never stop working, because of dns query limits. you will not be billed for any type of dns query floods. thousands of dns records our build-in dns management system is designed to operate with large amount of dns records. we are helping to multiple internet service providers to manage large ipv6 reverse dns zones with over 100,000 dns records into a single dns zone. our clients are large anti-spam organizations with dns-based black lists with over 300,000 dns records. instant dns propagation our managed dns service operates under self-developed system with instant dns propagation over all data centers included in our network. the web-based control panel allows our customers to monitor the propagation over all data centers in real-time. you can check anytime for any of your domain names what is the update status for each data center. in combination with low ttl values (as low as 1 minute) our customers can deploy any changes faster without any downtime. protected from dns-based ddos attacks there are many managed dns providers at the market that can provide a dns service with good quality and speed, but it is not the same when we talk about ddos attacks, especially dns-based attacks like large query floods. most of the managed dns providers (including industry leaders) do not provide any type of ddos protection, some of them has ddos protection, but it is only for volumetric - bandwidth based attacks, but nobody offers ddos protection for dns query floods. the dns service is udp-based service. there is no problem large amount of dns requests to be send from random ip addresses to the dns servers that manages the attacked domain name. the dns query flood attacks are based on large amount of dns requests for a single domain name. most of the managed dns providers fails and block the attacked domain name on their network. our self-developed protection for dns-based attacks is designed to mitigate any type of such attacks. dns designed for maximum speed the traditional unicast dns network configuration includes two or more dns servers with unique ip addresses and physical location. for an example most of the dns providers on the market provide two or four name servers located in united states and europe, but there is no guarantee that the web site visitors and their dns resolvers from united states will be connected to the us servers and these from europe to the eu server. if a visitor from united states is connected to the eu server, the speed will be over 150ms for a single query, it is the same if the visitor from europe connects to the us server. cloudns provides enterprise dns service over anycast dns network, where the one dns server with the same ip address is distributed over multiple data centers around the world. the visitor of your web site or the dns resolver of his internet provider will be connected to the closest data center. our anycast network provides best possible speed from any location in the world. white-label dns service and dedicated ip addresses we are dns infrastructure provider. most of our enterprise customers are telecom and internet providers, data centers, hosting providers and web studios. one of our key features is the option to provide to our customers full white-label dns service with dedicated ip addresses with their own reverse records (ptrs). the dedicated ip addresses allow to our customers to provide transparent dns service to their clients under their own brand and domain name. 24/7 support no matter what day, no matter when, we provide continuous, uninterrupted network monitoring and support. our technical support team is online for you 24/7 by live chat and tickets. we can migrate your zones for free, read more here. ddos protected l $39.95/month ddos protection for dns 4 anycast dns servers 400 dns zones 20,000 dns records unlimited queries per month 3 dns failover check 1000 mail forwards dnssec for primary dns secondary dns all extended features completely free trial. no credit cards required. no tricks. start free 30-day trial ddos protected l with dedicated ips $64.95/month +4 dedicated ipv4 and ipv6 addresses custom ptr records and server names all ddos protected l features 1m. - $64.95 3m. - $194.85 $185.15 6m. - $389.70 $363.70 1y. - $779.40 $714.45 2y. - $1,558.80 $1,363.95 buy now custom dns based on your needs dns outsourcing for hosting companies white-label dns service and control panel dns manager for whmcs and hostbill integration with cpanel, plesk and other platforms get an offer company about us news contacts data centers feedback careers dns services premium dns ddos protected dns geodns dns failover reverse dns secondary dns dynamic dns dnssec enum dns zones services managed dns anycast dns enterprise dns private dns servers domain names ssl certificates ddos protected vps knowledgebase blog wiki features faq http api whmcs module hostbill module domain parking payment methods partnership affiliate program resellers api registrant educational materials registrant benefits and responsibilities whois social connection terms of service | privacy policy ©2020 cloudns all prices are final and include all required taxes. no other hidden charges! online - live chat cookies help us deliver our services. by using our services, you agree to our use of cookies. learn more okay