toggle navigation home shop about us view cart checkout clothing for aspiring entrepreneurs - designed by kids, for kids shop now 1 our mission my brother and i started kid in charge to inspire other kids to start their own businesses. our parents taught us at an early age that a college degree does not guarantee money and success which is why we started this company. after all, if a 9 year old and an 11 year old can start a business, then so can you! we have documented our entire journey on youtube. click the button below to follow our journey! follow our journey featured t-shirts girl boss entrepreneur fitted t-shirt $19.99 select options i refuse to be anything but successful t-shirt $19.99 select options kid ceo t-shirt $19.99 select options work smarter not harder t-shirt $19.99 select options our customer service philosophy we take customer service seriously and your satisfaction is everything to us. we care about you and our top priority is to make sure that you are happy. if it means that my brother and i have to stay up past our bedtime to make sure your order gets out on time, then we'll do it! if there's anything that you need from us, please let us know and we'll take care of it! that is the kid in charge way meet the founders reena founder & head designer i'm 11 years old and i love to design t-shirts, make videos and work together with my brother. when i'm not in school, i like to read books kai founder & cfo i'm 9 years old and i like to design all sorts of objects such as balloons, t-shirts and more. what i enjoy about business is making videos and creating stuff what people are saying about us reena and kai are awesome! we just started a business selling slime and these shirts remind us that we're in charge. if you are looking for inspirational clothing, then look no further. these shirts from kid in charge will motivate you to start your own business! these t-shirts are professional, cool and inspring! now i want to start my own model airplane business kid in charge inspired me to start a business selling handmade tissue box covers. i refuse to be anything but successful! we want you to be happy with your purchase we take pride in our shirts * 100% satisfaction guarantee * superior customer service * quick shipping get in touch facebook you tube instagram contact us questions? 650-492-4617 quick links shipping privacy policy about us our blog sign up for our newsletter get exclusive promotions! kidincharge.com copyright © 2019 all rights reserved. please read our privacy policy