video webinars start a business subscribe books franchise home quiz: find your franchise business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map find a franchise. request info. be your own boss. find a franchise search franchises search find the right franchise for you begin by picking an industry and taking the quiz. get started on your journey to becoming a franchise owner. the results might surprise you. take the quiz franchise categories automotive business services children's services education financial services food healthcare home improvement hotels & motels maintenance personal care pet business recreation retail service businesses tech businesses training resources for your franchises franchise financing using 401(k)/ira funds tax penalty-free debt free expert guidance learn more view our franchise 500 list our 41st annual franchise 500 ranking welcome to entrepreneur’s 41st annual franchise 500® ranking. for more than four decades, we’ve been studying the franchise industry and honing our proprietary formula in order to bring you the world’s first, best, and most comprehensive franchise ranking. and with each year, the ranking becomes increasingly competitive, as more and more companies see the value of expansion through franchising and throw their hats into the ring. our list shows just how varied the franchise world has become, offering prospective franchisees a myriad of choices. more on understanding the rankings more franchise rankings top franchises for veterans any budget top brands fastest growing top new top global top franchise suppliers top 10 ranked franchises 1 dunkin' 2 taco bell 3 mcdonald's 4 sonic drive-in 5 the ups store request more info 6 ace hardware 7 planet fitness 8 jersey mike's subs request more info 9 culver's 10 pizza hut llc see the list franchise articles franchise 500 can jon taffer fix franchise restaurants? the bar rescue star is out to perfect food-service franchising with taffer's tavern, a low-cost, high-quality sous-vide concept. jason fiefer | 10 min read health and wellness cryotherapy franchises are hot. can they last? will the trend stick around like yoga, or will it dissipate like oxygen bars? the truth is, it might not matter. jesse will | 7 min read franchise 500 why ghost kitchens are the next big thing for food-service franchises as consumers embrace delivery services, restaurants are ditching their eat-in spaces -- and finding big savings. bryan smith | 13 min read franchise 500 why millennials make great franchisees -- and how to recruit them an increasing amount of franchises are starting to realize the power of youth, and working to attract young and hungry franchisees. blaire briody | 6 min read franchise 500 how franchisees and franchisors can master their relationship building a strong partnership is step one toward shared success. mark siebert | 15 min read franchise 500 5 ways a franchise can grow fast learn from the ways these franchises boosted their bottom lines. claire zulkey and madison semarjian | 12 min read franchise 500 #4 on the franchise 500: how sonic drive-in uses artificial intelligence to improve customer service the #4 company on our franchise 500 list is learning from its customers -- and serving up exactly what they want. liz brody | 2 min read franchise 500 #3 on the franchise 500: mcdonald's had a bumpy year, but still leads in innovation the #3 company on our franchise 500 list is betting on technology to drive future sales. liz brody | 2 min read franchise 500 #5 on the franchise 500: the ups store meets customers where they are the #5 company on our franchise 500 list has found new growth by opening smaller locations inside pharmacies, hotels, and military bases. gordy megroz | 2 min read franchise 500 #6 on the franchise 500: ace hardware is fusing online sales with in-person service the #6 company on our franchise 500 list is still evolving after 95 years in business. gordy megroz | 2 min read franchise 500 #7 on the franchise 500: planet fitness knows you don't want to go to the gym the #7 company on our franchise 500 list attracts first-time gym-goers with low prices and a shame-free environment. stephanie schomer | 2 min read franchise 500 #8 on the franchise 500: by the end of 2020, jersey mike's will hit $2 billion in sales the #8 company on our franchise 500 list has seen explosive growth from existing franchisees opening new locations. terry rice | 2 min read franchise 500 #9 on the franchise 500: at culver's, community is key the #9 company on our franchise 500 list has built a culture that's obsessed with customer happiness. terry rice | 2 min read franchise 500 #10 on the franchise 500: how technology and takeout are saving pizza hut the #10 company on our franchise 500 list announced the closure of 500 dine-in locations, but it's found other ways to thrive. gordy megroz | 2 min read growth strategies how wahlburgers finds success through feedback by paying attention to what customers truly wanted, the food-service brand boosted business. jason feifer | 3 min read franchise financing using 401(k)/ira funds tax penalty-free debt free expert guidance understanding the ranking welcome to entrepreneur’s 41st annual franchise 500® ranking. for more than four decades, we’ve been studying the franchise industry and honing our proprietary formula in order to bring you the world’s first, best, and most comprehensive franchise ranking. and with each year, the ranking becomes increasingly competitive, as more and more companies see the value of expansion through franchising and throw their hats into the ring. our list shows just how varied the franchise world has become, offering prospective franchisees a myriad of choices, from more traditional options, like restaurants, maintenance services, and gyms to the latest trends, like ax throwing, cryotherapy, and cbd. so just how do we go about evaluating and ranking such a diverse pool of opportunities? here’s a look behind the scenes. the five pillars of the franchise 500® some key factors that go into our evaluation: costs & fees franchise fee total investment royalty fees support training times marketing support operational support franchisor infrastructure financing availability litigation size & growth open & operating units growth rate closures brand strength social media system size years in business years franchising financial strength & stability franchisor's audited financial statements note: pillars and factors are not listed in order of importance. the ranking process begins with gathering the data. starting in july 2019, we asked franchisors to fill out our online form and submit a copy of their current franchise disclosure document (fdd) or canadian disclosure document. we had a record-breaking year, with 1,105 companies supplying all the required information. submissions were vetted by our editorial team before being entered for data analysis. to be eligible to rank, a franchisor must be seeking new franchisees in the u.s. or canada and must have had a minimum of 10 units open and operating as of july 31, 2019, with at least one franchise located in north america. each eligible franchisor was scored based on more than 150 data points, and those with the highest cumulative scores became the franchise 500. note: the franchise 500 is not intended to endorse, advertise, or recommend any particular franchise. it is solely a tool to compare franchise operations. you should always conduct your own careful research before investing in a franchise. read the fdd and related materials, get help from a franchise attorney and an accountant to review legal and financial documents, talk to as many existing and former franchisees as possible, and visit their outlets. protect yourself by doing your homework to find the opportunity that’s best for you. research compiled by tracy stapp herold and michael frazier, with assistance from sean strain, ayesha diwan, karina martinez, dianna mendoza, and niko ruiz; technical assistance from angel cool. company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account