video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map entrepreneur magazine tablet edition | subscribe march 2020 tracee ellis ross spent 10 years building pattern, her hair care brand the actress and entrepreneur has learned that to be successful, the message is as important as the product. why oxiclean's anthony sullivan bought a hemp farm before launching a cbd brand to truly succeed, he says, you must be authentic. small businesses are now hiring apprentices. should you? the old plumber and electrician trainee model has been reimagined for the new world -- and could be exactly what a startup needs. view all articles from this issue » january 2020 mark wahlberg's secret to becoming more disciplined the actor and entrepreneur's greatest business asset is his own diligence. are you meeting (and setting) customers' expectations? to succeed, the value of what you offer must be greater than what people expect. 4 steps to growing your business now did your growth stall in 2019? here's how you can engineer a bigger, better year for your business. view all articles from this issue » december 2019 sterling k. brown wants the conversation around diversity to shift from 'inclusion' to 'celebration' the producer and 'this is us' actor says recognizing and embracing differences creates the best collaboration. what it's like inside spanx headquarters failure is supported -- and even encouraged -- at the billion-dollar shapewear brand. the hottest franchise categories of 2020 get to know 347 franchises in trend-topping industries that will continue to boom next year (and likely beyond). view all articles from this issue » october 2019 supermodel karlie kloss's lesson to young women: never be afraid to ask questions! the project runway host built a coding school, kode with klossy, to inspire a generation of tech-savvy women. but her real mission, she says, is much broader. 100 powerful women in business women know how to fight the good fight -- and they won't back down until the job is done. get to know 100 female-led businesses and brands that are creating change and redefining the rules of success. karlie kloss looks to these female founders for inspiration our october/november cover star discusses the women (and businesses) that keep her motivated. view all articles from this issue » september 2019 how these teen sisters make $20 million a year on bath bombs da bomb bath started as a hobby when caroline and isabel bercaw were in middle school. six years later, their products are sold nationwide. cbd is a crowded industry. here's how one brand learned to stand out. instead of pushing a product, feals focuses on its customers' pain points. meet 16 teen founders who are building big businesses -- and making big money today's youth is already hard at work, building everything from delivery apps to robotic kits to sustainable fashion brands. view all articles from this issue » july 2019 how shaq is bringing fun back to papa john's the basketball legend is the franchise's new brand ambassador. he's got his work cut out for him -- but shaq's never been afraid of a challenge. you're not approachable enough. let's fix that. potential clients can't hire you if they can't find you. build a bridge to yourself -- and to your business. how to find the right payment system in a mobile economy, being able to simply process credit cards is no longer enough. here's what to look for as you search for a payment-system provider. view all articles from this issue » june 2019 michelle pfeiffer's fragrance brand took 20 years (and plenty of rejection) to build she wanted the fragrance industry to be more transparent.the fragrance industry said no. so the actress took matters into her own hands. women are disappearing from the cannabis industry. why? the industry's most powerful women are working to fix it. the top food franchises of 2019 food dominates the franchise world. here, we rank the strongest brands in 14 tasty categories. view all articles from this issue » april 2019 kristen bell and her cofounders built a company to save lives. but growing it wasn't so simple. with an entrepreneurial can-do mindset, the four hollywood vets have built a business with soaring sales and global impact. a desktop statue of a hindu deity gives this founder daily inspiration the gift from his mother helps beverage entrepreneur anshuman vohra fight for success. why former nba star al harrington is betting on cannabis the athlete is working to get sports leagues to embrace cannabis and cbd as a valuable resource for healing. view all articles from this issue » march 2019 the property brothers' business empire depends on one thing: their very strong partnership drew and jonathan scott have conquered the real estate, design, and entertainment worlds. and they know that they're better together. silent bob is now a legitimate ganjapreneur kevin smith details how he and jason mewes have turned their iconic characters into a budding business. the best way to get what you want? focus on your customers' needs. forget your own desires, and lead with the value you can provide. view all articles from this issue » go to magazine archive magazine resources subscribe to entrepreneur subscribe to green entrepreneur subscription services browse magazines entrepreneur latest entrepreneur archive green entrepreneur latest green entrepreneur archive startups latest startups archive subscribe to entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account