video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map entrepreneur staff jason feifer jason feifer is the editor-in-chief of entrepreneur magazine, and the host of two podcasts: problem solvers, about entrepreneurs solving unexpected problems in their business, and pessimists archive a history of unfounded fears of innovation. he’s @heyfeifer on twitter and instagram. dan bova dan bova is the editorial director of digital content at entrepreneur.com. he previously worked at jimmy kimmel live, maxim and spy magazine. check out his humor writing at planet bova. jason fell jason fell is director of native content for entrepreneur, managing the entrepreneur partner studio, which creates dynamic and compelling content for our partners. he previously served as entrepreneur.com's managing editor and as the technology editor prior to that. matthew mccreary matthew mccreary is the associate editor for contributed content at entrepreneur.com. hayden field hayden field is an associate editor at entrepreneur. she covers technology, business and science. her work has also appeared in fortune magazine, mashable, refinery29 and others. andrea hardalo andrea hardalo is the social media editor of entrepreneur.com. she previously managed social for scout media. paul scirecalabrisotto paul scirecalabrisotto is the creative director of entrepreneur magazine. judith puckett-rinella judith puckett-rinella is entrepreneur magazine's photography director. she’s held the title of photography director at t: the new york times style magazine, details, blackbook and, most recently, vanity fair. puckett-rinella has worked with virtually every eminent photographer in the country, including annie leibowitz, mark seliger and nigel parry. she has been nominated for four emmy awards and has won two webby awards. follow her on instagram @whispereditions. stephanie schomer stephanie schomer is entrepreneur magazine's deputy editor. she previously worked at entertainment weekly, architectural digest and fast company. follow her on twitter @stephschomer. stephanie makrias stephanie makrias is entrepreneur magazine's copy chief. monica im monica im is entrepreneur magazine's production manager. grant davis grant davis is the managing editor of entrepreneur magazine. company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account