video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map webinars all webinars on demand schedule social media learn how to use linkedin to expand your consulting business date: april 15, 2020 time: 4:00 pm edt terry rice $19.00 buy single webinar or start your free trial for unlimited access, click here to learn more about entrepreneur insider. description when: apr 15, 2020 time: 4:00 pm edt type: workshops duration: 60 min speaker: terry rice language: english if you’re a consultant, linkedin is the platform to master if you want to build a strong professional presence and consistently grow your business. with more than 80 percent of social media-generated b2b leads coming from linkedin, and an extremely easy way to reach your audience, learning how to effectively leverage this platform could be vital to scaling your company. during this workshop you'll discover how to dominate linkedin and expand your business. you’ll discover how to effectively utilize linkedin without trying to keep up with complex algorithms or feeling like you’re wasting your time. key takeaways: set up your linkedin profile for success, communicating why your audience would want to work with you and your company optimize the keywords in your title and bio to increase appearances for valuable search terms identify your ideal connections and connect effectively -- without paying for ads create content -- as well as the associated content calendar -- that engages your audience and encourages meaningful interactions use linkedin as an ongoing networking and personal branding opportunity, while also measuring the impact about this webinar during a workshop subject matter experts will deliver structured content along with additional resources for independent study. these sessions may also include interactive elements such as group and individual projects. all workshops will incorporate q&a sections. although not required, participants can maximize their experience by doing some research ahead of time, and coming prepared with specific questions. speakers terry rice business development expert-in-residence terry rice is the business development expert-in-residence at entrepreneur. as the founder of terry rice consulting, he helps entrepreneurs monetize their knowledge without sacrificing their health, family or personal interests. his previous experience includes consulting roles at both adobe and facebook. live and upcoming view schedule in 4 days running a business how and why to shift your consulting business online terry rice learn more in 5 days social media instagram 101: how to craft the perfect profile anna vatuone learn more in 18 days social media learn how to use linkedin to expand your consulting business terry rice learn more in 1 month personal growth how to establish yourself as a thought leader charlene walters, mba, phd learn more company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account