articles videos start a business my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map startup funding how yoco raised r300 million in vc funding yoco entered the market in 2015. in 2018, the founders raised r248 million in series b funding. here's how they've built a business that funders will back. just added psychology of success harnessing the power of fear fear as foe and friend: how to master this important relationship. erik kruger | 5 min read news and trends be authentic this women's month a new conference, illumi.nation aims to inspire and motivate south africa's women. entrepreneur south africa staff | 3 min read celebrating women entrepreneurs on women's day south african women entrepreneurs answer two key questions: 'what was the best advice given to you as a woman entrepreneur and how did you action it?' and, 'what would you advise women entrepreneurs starting their journey now and in light of the current business climate?' mari schourie | 12 min read company post south africa experience high speed acceleration as a woman-owned small business mathapelo temogo, owner of black pearl coach shuttles and tours, shares her experience with the saica enterprise development programme and how it boosted her business saica enterprise development | 3 min read more from latest most popular 1 6 tricks you need to know about zoom john rampton | 5 min read 2 10 successful people share their strategies for leading a service-based business yitzi weiner | 15+ min read 3 whiskey producers are making hand sanitizer. here's how they organized. maggie kimberl | 5 min read 4 10 skills you can master during isolation entrepreneur store | 4 min read 5 the rise of alternative venture capital tristan pollock | 12 min read read more news & trends lifestyle is vegan protein powder the next big wellness business? it's a growing market – and it's not just for bodybuilders brian kateman | 5 min read crisis management facebook pledges $100 million to small businesses impacted by coronavirus it's also giving $1,000 bonuses to each of its employees. christine fisher | 3 min read finance 3 ways alternate lending is driving the future of finance it's a gold mine that's changing the rules of finance and opening up new opportunities. pritom das | 4 min read starting a business a beginner's guide to small-business structures choosing the type of business structure can have lasting impacts on your business. chris porteous | 4 min read is vegan protein powder the next big wellness business? it's a growing market – and it's not just for bodybuilders brian kateman | 5 min read 3 ways alternate lending is driving the future of finance it's a gold mine that's changing the rules of finance and opening up new opportunities. pritom das | 4 min read 50 work-from-home jobs paying as much or a lot more than the average american salary the money can be pretty good but you're on your own. for some people that's the best part. john rampton | 12 min read growth strategies want to be successful? stop thinking about failure here's how to avoid sabotaging yourself and your business. thomas edwards, jr. | 6 min read 3 ways alternate lending is driving the future of finance it's a gold mine that's changing the rules of finance and opening up new opportunities. pritom das | 4 min read 7 unconventional things you need to build and scale a $100 million business communication, networking, and sales skills are overrated. the oracles | 5 min read how much do seo services actually cost? the three most common types of seo services and which one is right for your business. jacky chou | 5 min read company post south africa experience high speed acceleration as a woman-owned small business mathapelo temogo, owner of black pearl coach shuttles and tours, shares her experience with the saica enterprise development programme and how it boosted her business saica enterprise development | 3 min read fast forward – south africa's sme sector come 2030 between today and 2030, the digital revolution will profoundly change how small business owners in south africa operate, attract funding, grow their businesses and change our economic landscape. find out more here: karl westvig | 3 min read it's your last chance to immigrate to the usa with a $500 000 minimum investment the minimum investment is set to increase to $900,000.00 and $1.8m on november 21, 2019 for those looking to immigrate the usa. now's the time if you want to take advantage of the lower minimum investment price. wolfsdorf rosenthal llp (wr) | 3 min read road accident fund ( raf ) – how to claim and the most frequently asked questions have you been in an accident? do you know how to claim from the road accident fund? here's everything you need to know: louis j schoeman | 15+ min read featured contributors nedbank follow top story nando's is firing up the east tomtom telematics follow top story in the business of supporting businesses advertising enquiries for all advertising enquiries related to entrepreneur south africa, please contact sales@entrepreneurmag.co.za company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing editorial enquiries for all editorial and contributor enquiries related to entrepreneur south africa, please contact webmaster@entrepreneurmag.co.za products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise podcasts publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account