video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map webinars all webinars on demand schedule social media instagram 101: how to craft the perfect profile date: april 02, 2020 time: 4:00 pm edt anna vatuone $19.00 buy single webinar or start your free trial for unlimited access, click here to learn more about entrepreneur insider. description when: apr 02, 2020 time: 4:00 pm edt type: workshops duration: 60 min speaker: anna vatuone language: english did you know the moment someone looks at your instagram, they immediately form an opinion based on your profile picture, bio, and what the rest of your feed looks like? first impressions are just as important online as they are offline. when meeting someone in the physical world, they can gauge how they feel about you in a matter of seconds. in the digital world, it’s even less. think of your instagram bio like your digital business card—it’s a way to tell people exactly who you are and what you can do for them. you might be thinking, there’s so much to know about me. how am i supposed to narrow it all down? don’t worry! in this webinar, you’ll learn how to craft the perfect instagram profile so your message is clear and not confusing. key takeaways: discover how to select the perfect profile picture. learn how to craft an instagram bio that converts visitors into followers. get tips on how to choose the perfect username. design an instagram feed that matches your brand’s aesthetic. optimize your highlights to position yourself as the expert in your niche. learn all of my secret instagram best-practices. about this webinar during a workshop subject matter experts will deliver structured content along with additional resources for independent study. these sessions may also include interactive elements such as group and individual projects. all workshops will incorporate q&a sections. although not required, participants can maximize their experience by doing some research ahead of time, and coming prepared with specific questions. speakers anna vatuone personal brand strategist anna vatuone is a personal brand strategist based in the bay area, california. she works with entrepreneurs and executives across industries to help them clarify their mission, optimize their digital assets, and convey their personal story in a way that moves decision-makers. she’s the host of the personal branding podcast, where you’ll find actionable advice, expert guest interviews, and thought-provoking discussion on how to build a personal brand. live and upcoming view schedule in 4 days running a business how and why to shift your consulting business online terry rice learn more in 5 days social media instagram 101: how to craft the perfect profile anna vatuone learn more in 18 days social media learn how to use linkedin to expand your consulting business terry rice learn more in 1 month personal growth how to establish yourself as a thought leader charlene walters, mba, phd learn more company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account