digital magazine native video green women podcast events social books contacts inspiring bold new thinking in business entrepreneur® connects with millions of inspired minds who drive forward with the ideas and innovations that impact us all. they are an unstoppable force inspired to lead, determined to define success by their own terms, and as passionate about play as they are business. make your brand the preferred choice with these affluent business and household decision-makers through a variety of customized programs integrated across digital, print, video, event, community and mobile platforms. 14mm unique visitors 4mm readers 13mm followers media kit edit calendar home reach change-makers in every industry anne wojcicki - empowering consumer health anne wojcicki wants to give people affordable access to potentially lifesaving information. her company 23andme became the first to receive fda authorization to sell direct-to-consumer cancer-testing kits without a prescription. next up in the company’s mission: using genetic insights to develop new medicines. photo - 23andme reach change-makers in every industry michael strahan - seizing new opportunities michael strahan took control of his post-football career by honing his on-camera skills and co-founding the smac entertainment management company. today, he is also known to the masses as a good morning america cohost, a fox nfl sunday analyst, the $100,000 pyramid emcee and most recently, a fashion designer. photo - disney abc press reach change-makers in every industry miko branch - empowering an underserved niche hairstylist miko branch experimented and created a product line supporting her african american clients who wanted to wear their hair naturally. those kitchen experiments have grown into miss jessie’s, a multi-million dollar curly-hair product line sold in retailers across the country. photo - michael rowe/getty images reach change-makers in every industry tammy sun - shifting company cultures tammy sun built carrot software to help companies include fertility treatment in their benefits packages. at first, only wealthy tech firms like foursquare and coinbase were on board. but as more and more employees seek coverage, companies outside of tech, such as financial services and retail, are turning to carrot for a solution. photo - get carrot reach change-makers in every industry john foley - growing an industry revolution former ceo of evite, john foley is the founder of fast-growing tech company peloton. the brand’s high-end home fitness bikes and on-demand classes have become a cult favorite among spinners. now, peloton is making its biggest, riskiest, and most expensive bet yet with the launch of its second-ever product, the peloton tread. photo - peloton entrepreneur.com a daily source of inspiration and information, entrepreneur.com fuels the spectrum of game-changers that define what it means to be an entrepreneur today. that includes business leaders who launched something from nothing, content creators in the social influencer space, athletes pushing the boundaries of performance, and internal thought leaders innovating inside major corporations. entrepreneur.com offers strategic insights and how-to guidance for the people that make things happen. international reach expands across india; asia pacific; georgia; middle east/north africa; mexico, central and latin america; europe; and more. entrepreneur magazine for four decades, entrepreneur has been the definitive guide to the diverse challenges of entrepreneurship. each issue equips leaders with the critical information they require to expand their visions and grow their ventures. published 8 times a year, available in print and digital editions. 3x annual startups publication, designed to guide emerging entrepreneurs through the inspiration, launch and critical first few years of business. international editions are available in india; middle east north africa; and mexico, central and latin america. entrepreneur partner studio, the custom publishing and marketing division within entrepreneur media inc., produces content that engages business owners and elevates the conversation for brands. learn more women entrepreneur entrepreneur features dedicated content and experiences focused on dynamic women leaders, including our annual celebration of 100 powerful women in business. dedicated editorial in each issue of entrepreneur magazine and daily on the women entrepreneur channel offer resources, tools, access to funding, and solutions for women leaders to build their entrepreneurial success. visit now entrepreneur elevator pitch gives real entrepreneurs the opportunity to pitch their businesses to investors. the catch? they have one minute to do it—the length of their actual elevator ride up to the boardroom to meet their potential funders. watch now entrepreneur events entrepreneur hosts and partners with a variety of events ranging from intensive seminars to all-day expos and conferences. from practical advice to thought-provoking dialogue, attendees walk away with strategies and ideas to realize their ambitious goals. contact us to learn about upcoming events your brand can be a part of to build customer connections. podcasts connect with the dynamic voices behind these and more featured podcasts to align with today’s unique perspectives on entrepreneurship. each show offers the opportunity to immerse your brand into relevant conversations for leaders driving business forward. listen to these and more shows at entrepreneur.com/listen. green entrepreneur green entrepreneur is focused on the entrepreneurship, business, technology, and lifestyle of the burgeoning cannabis industry. connect with cannabis thought leaders, innovators and consumers through engaging experiences across platforms. visit now social media with us, entrepreneurs have a community—a place they can go to learn how to face business challenges head-on and persevere, discover opportunities for growth, and advance their ventures. 13 million followers 29 distinct communities 9 social networks entrepreneur press specializes in titles helping leaders advance their business plans and hone their entrepreneurial skills. over 2.5 million books sold. browse our titles submit your proposal advertising sales contacts united states brian speranzini svp of national sales office: 646-278-8483 brians@entrepreneur.com paul fishback vp, franchise ad sales office: 949-622-5226 pfishback@entrepreneur.com international mexico mena india georgia mexico erika magaña commercial director office: + 525521286865 emagana@g21.com.mx mena wissam younane bnc publishing office: + 971504737889 wissam@bncpublishing.net india preetima bhardwaj account manager office: + 91 8588898248 bpreetima@franchiseindia.net south africa samantha peel digital media solutions consultant mobile: + 27 (0)82 873 9620 samanthap@emtsgroup.co.za philippines florence bienvenido group advertising director office: + 63-9988401219 florence.bienvenido@summitmedia.com.ph georgia alexsandre siradze executive director office: + 995-559134510 alex@entrepreneur.ge contact us copyright © 2019 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. terms of use privacy policy