video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map elevator pitch entrepreneur elevator pitch season 5 episode 11: 'you've gotta listen to him because of the suit' this episode of our weekly show starts with a strong pitch and a serious ask. next article --shares add to queue entrepreneur staff entrepreneur staff december 24, 2019 3 min read this episode starts off with a strong pitch from sara rose, the co-founder of healthcare startup tribecan, who showcases her long history within her niche, her business expertise and her willingness to negotiate. this last aspect is particularly noticeable for the judges when rose asks for a $75,000 investment without specifying her company’s valuation. entrepreneur elevator pitch invites ambitious entrepreneurs to step into the entrepreneur elevator, then gives them just 60 seconds to pique the interest of a group of judges. it’s a high-pressure, fast-paced environment in which startup founders need to race against the clock while maintaining their composure to make a clear, deliberate pitch that covers at least three essential components: defining the company making the request specifying what the investment money will be used for the investors watch the pitch via a video livestream while the elevator ascends to the boardroom floor. once the 60 seconds are up, the judges vote on whether to open the doors or send the founder back down and pass on investing. the fifth season of entrepreneur elevator pitch offers a dynamic change in the show's format. before, our four judges needed unanimous agreement to make an offer to the pitching entrepreneurs ⁠— including three out of four "yes" votes just to open the elevator doors. now, it only takes one investor to open the doors and one judge to make an offer. the panel of four can then choose whether they want to collaborate or compete against one another. related: entrepreneur elevator pitch season 5 episode 10: 'you've got 3 seconds to choose' this episode begins with an entrepreneur named ron tonini of sports engager, who’s seeking to create a new twist on old sports-player cards. rather than utilizing printed cards of famous baseball, football or hockey players, this startup wants to create digital cards for parents, detailing their children’s stats in real time. tonini’s concise and practiced pitch, combined with his company’s revenue-making partnerships with big names like the new england patriots and anaheim ducks, draws the investors’ attention right away. just as important is tonini’s presence — judge peter goldberg says tonini is a “serious-looking guy with a serious ask,” while thom beers says his “tie is worth more than my outfit.” however, the pitch ends with a huge ask: $2 million at a $6 million valuation. can tonini do enough to convince the investors he’s worth such a hefty price tag? after, husband-and-wife team bill and sonia massey of the restroom kit show off their portable product made for those who need to use a restroom away from home, particularly in public where the bathrooms can be especially unsanitary. their engaging and entertaining pitch makes the judges laugh. will it make them open the elevator doors? watch the full video to find out and see more great pitches. more from entrepreneur get heaping discounts to books you love delivered straight to your inbox. we’ll feature a different book each week and share exclusive deals you won’t find anywhere else. sign up now jumpstart your business. entrepreneur insider is your all-access pass to the skills, experts, and network you need to get your business off the ground—or take it to the next level. join now starting, buying, or growing your small business shouldn’t be hard. guidant financial works to make financing easy for current and aspiring small business owners by providing custom funding solutions, financing education, and more. learn more related books the power of passive income buy from the power of passive income buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read success is easy buy from success is easy buy from amazon indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read start your own photography business buy from start your own photography business buy from amazon ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read start your own business buy from start your own business buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read start your own freelance writing business buy from start your own freelance writing business buy from amazon ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read start your own etsy business buy from start your own etsy business buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read latest on entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account