video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map webinars all webinars on demand schedule running a business how and why to shift your consulting business online date: april 01, 2020 time: 3:00 pm edt terry rice create a free entrepreneur account to enroll enroll for free description when: apr 01, 2020 time: 3:00 pm edt type: workshops duration: 60 min speaker: terry rice language: english with an increasing number of people working from home or practicing other forms of social distancing, it can be challenging to maintain your consulting business. all the plans and projections you’ve established can easily change on a day to day basis, leaving you concerned about how you’ll be able to sustain your business. although this situation is challenging, the solution for many consultants is clear, offering remote services. i’ve worked as a business consultant for the past five years, 95 percent of my business is done remotely. initially this was done out of necessity, it was too challenging to consult onsite in manhattan and make it back home to brooklyn so i could pick up my children from daycare. over time, i discovered it was much more efficient, and allowed me to grow my business by working with clients in other regions. i could also stack more meetings back to back - no commuting between meetings - allowing me to generate more revenue in a shorter period of time. this same skill - knowing how to effectively share knowledge remotely - proved useful as i started speaking at online conferences, some of them drawing more than 50,000 attendees. my initial disadvantage, the need to work remotely, eventually became an extremely valuable skill. during this webinar, i’ll teach you how to do the same. we’ll go beyond setting up a video conferencing platform and discuss other tools and apps you can use to streamline your online consulting business. i’ll also provide you with useful tips to help you maintain your physical and mental health as you shift to a new working environment. key takeaways: discover the need to know apps and tools necessary for running an online consulting business learn how to actively engage groups and clients through video as opposed to just talking to a computer screen uncover tips for pitching remote services, and how to handle common objections walk away valuable resources and practices you can use to maintain your mental and physical health about this webinar during a workshop subject matter experts will deliver structured content along with additional resources for independent study. these sessions may also include interactive elements such as group and individual projects. all workshops will incorporate q&a sections. although not required, participants can maximize their experience by doing some research ahead of time, and coming prepared with specific questions. speakers terry rice business development expert-in-residence terry rice is the business development expert-in-residence at entrepreneur. as the founder of terry rice consulting, he helps entrepreneurs monetize their knowledge without sacrificing their health, family or personal interests. his previous experience includes consulting roles at both adobe and facebook. live and upcoming view schedule in 4 days running a business how and why to shift your consulting business online terry rice learn more in 5 days social media instagram 101: how to craft the perfect profile anna vatuone learn more in 18 days social media learn how to use linkedin to expand your consulting business terry rice learn more in 1 month personal growth how to establish yourself as a thought leader charlene walters, mba, phd learn more company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account