u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost environment. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition environment trump goes full ‘shock doctrine’ as pandemic rages the administration is pushing its pro-polluter agenda as the u.s. death toll from covid-19 rises. by alexander c. kaufman and chris d'angelo how to prepare for your pets in case of a coronavirus emergency make sure your dog, cat, rabbit or other animal companion is accounted for if you have a covid-19-related crisis. by hilary hanson we made so much progress on plastic bags. coronavirus could undo it all. the plastics industry is mounting a campaign to push single-use plastics as the safest option, despite the science being far from clear. by amy crawford tiny east coast island untouched by covid-19 scrambles to keep it that way tourism fuels the economy of block island, rhode island, but residents worry visitors seeking refuge from the pandemic could strain the town's limited resources. by hayley miller trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad mass bleaching hits great barrier reef again: like watching louvre ‘burn to the ground’ the iconic structure was hit with devastating, back-to-back bleaching in 2016 and 2017. by nick visser what it's like to not have running water during a pandemic thwarting the coronavirus means washing hands and staying hydrated. that's not easy for the 2 million americans still without plumbing in 2020. by alexander c. kaufman newsletter sign up subscribe to this new world the current capitalist system is broken. get updates on our progress toward building a fairer world. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. in major victory for standing rock sioux tribe, judge orders review of dakota access pipeline u.s. district judge james boasberg ordered the u.s. army corps of engineers to conduct a full environmental review of the controversial pipeline. by ap greta thunberg says it's 'extremely likely' she had coronavirus "our actions can be the difference between life and death for many others," the teen climate activist said. by josephine harvey lawmakers pushing big financial break for oil got $4 million in industry donations amid a global pandemic, members of congress look to throw a lifeline to the industry that bankrolled their campaigns. by chris d'angelo pablo escobar's 'cocaine hippos' may be restoring colombia's ecosystem researchers said the creatures could be filling the biological role once played by extinct animals like giant llamas. by david moye house democrats add climate rules to stimulus bill, but fall short of progressive calls the bill targets the airline industry for emissions cuts in particular. by alexander c. kaufman why we'll never treat the climate crisis with the same urgency as the coronavirus the delayed covid-19 response was met with swift condemnation. but outrage about the decades-long delay on climate change continues to be waved away as alarmism. by amy westervelt california utility pg&e to plead guilty to involuntary manslaughter over 2018 wildfire the company faces more than $30 billion in potential liabilities from california wildfires in 2017 and 2018 linked to its equipment. by reuters here's what trump's environmental agencies were doing amid the pandemic this week they approved pipelines and gold mines while attacking science as the death toll rises from the novel coronavirus and mass layoffs begin. by alexander c. kaufman and chris d'angelo airline union leader to push for new climate rules amid fight over bailout as airline layoffs mount due to the coronavirus' unprecedented economic shock, the influential association of flight attendants plans to push for emissions cuts. by alexander c. kaufman trump taps former attorney of trophy hunting group for key wildlife job anna seidman, a 20-year veteran of safari club international, has joined the u.s. fish and wildlife service — an agency she's sued several times. by chris d'angelo if we bail out airlines, it better come with climate rules the 2008 auto bailout led to stricter tailpipe emissions rules. in the “flight shame" era, shouldn’t the aviation industry buck up on fuel efficiency and electric planes? by alexander c. kaufman how to be a climate activist during a pandemic the fight against climate change isn't going away; it's going online. by sarah sax let these adorable animal livestreams bring on the warm and fuzzies from shelter kittens to wild polar bears to manatees, let these critter webcams take your mind off social isolation during the coronavirus outbreak. by elyse wanshel these cheeky little pet tiktoks will help you fur-get about social isolation allow these hamsters, bunnies, guinea pigs, ferrets and other cuddly pets help you feel warm and fuzzy again. by elyse wanshel newsletter sign up subscribe to this new world the current capitalist system is broken. get updates on our progress toward building a fairer world. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost environment. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.