welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog don’t fear the fin: 7 unique facts about sharks published on: jul 24, 2017 by zahra islam 5103 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post it’s the most wonderful time of the year! for shark and marine animal lovers, that is.sunday kicked off discovery channel’s much anticipated shark week, the network’s annual tribute to some of the ocean’s most mysterious – and misunderstood – creatures. since it first aired in 1988, this week of programming is meant to promote conservation efforts educate viewers about misconceptions around sharks.celebrate the start of... read more about don’t fear the fin: 7 unique facts about sharks environmental challenges: why we all need to take action published on: sep 06, 2016 by environmental studies: a global perspective course team 11366 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this is a guest blog post from curtin university’s environmental studies: a global perspective course team. last year was a major win for environmentalists across the globe, with the paris agreement acknowledging that climate change has been influenced by human activity and setting a goal to limit the global average surface temperature increase to 1.5°c above the baseline average. in spite of this step forward, the reality... read more about environmental challenges: why we all need to take action go beyond groundhog day – learn science and philosophy published on: feb 02, 2016 by justine goulart 4332 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post punxsutawney phil did not see his shadow. so, is it really an early spring? every year, on february 2nd, punxsutawney phil emerges from his burrow in the early morning hours as thousands watch in suspense to see if he will see his shadow. legend goes, if punxsutawney phil sees his shadow, there will be six more weeks of winter weather in the u.s. if he doesn’t... read more about go beyond groundhog day – learn science and philosophy spotlighting ten new online courses published on: sep 13, 2015 by patrick cavallario 5126 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what do application development, learning spanish, international law and environmental science have in common? they’re just a few of the new online course starting soon on edx. whether this is your first course or you’re a seasoned online learner, check out our spotlight of ten new courses and enroll in one today!*advanced placement® and ap® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the college board, which... read more about spotlighting ten new online courses summer of science: 11 science courses on edx published on: jun 12, 2015 by mukta g 4025 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post summer learning @ edx is a great way to stay sharp all summer long. from aliens, to genetics, biology, nutrition, and more, there are tons of cool science courses to help you beat the summer heat. check out 11 science courses starting this summer, and enroll today! get involved in earth day 2015 – enroll in environmental science courses published on: apr 21, 2015 by becky pineo 4905 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post looking for ways to celebrate earth day? since april 22, 1970, people around the world have celebrated earth day with environmentally-minded projects: cleaning up neighborhoods and landmarks, raising awareness to protect ecosystems and animals, and educating others about how our daily actions impact our future. we know edx students love to go above and beyond, so how will you educate yourself about the environment in... read more about get involved in earth day 2015 – enroll in environmental science courses learn about framing, smart cities and how stuff moves on edx this week! published on: apr 17, 2015 by mukta g 4931 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post there’s still time to enroll in these great courses. published on: feb 02, 2015 by michele palmer 3688 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post by patrick cavallario, edx community manager search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close