skip to content menu home blog business motivation personal development success well-being video about us advertise contact us faq success team success foundation store subscriptions subscribe access digital issue renew give a gift subscriber services facebooktwitterlinkedinpinterestyoutubeinstagram menu home blog business motivation personal development success well-being video about us advertise contact us faq success team success foundation store subscriptions subscribe access digital issue renew give a gift subscriber services ep. 6: success chat with gary vaynerchuk by janderson | april 12, 2016 | 0 gary vaynerchuk opens up to host shelby skrhak about his public persona vs. his private one, and why self-awareness is essential for both. the author of crush it and his new book, #askgaryvee, gives the surprising reason why entrepreneurship isn’t the right path for everyone, and shares how he keeps himself and his team motivated and successful. plus gary answers success insider listener questions in #askgaryvee style. takeaways: gary vee talks emotional intelligence and the importance of telling it like it is. what does it mean to be self-aware? do you have it? plus, josh gives a recap of vaynerchuk being real at sxsw. vaynerchuk gives an inside look into his new book, #askgaryvee and why not everyone can be an entrepreneur. reader question: if you had to start vaynermedia from scratch, what would you do differently? favorite quote from this episode: “as a ceo that is in charge of 650 employees, i try to focus on, just trying to understand what somebody is good at and what they like. [i] try to find that cross-section and then try to deploy them, if possible, in that arena.” gary vaynerchuk you might also like… ‘embrace the people who tell you you’re full of crap’ success insider is a weekly podcast to engage, educate and inspire emerging leaders and success seekers. every week, success.com’s shelby skrhak and success magazine’s josh ellis will discuss the latest trends in personal empowerment, entrepreneurship and career development. we’ll dig into books, ideas and news you’ll want to know about. we’ll chat with special guests, including authors, industry experts, business leaders, trendsetters on our staff and other all-around successful people. and we’ll have a lot of fun doing it. join us! catch up on all episodes at success.com/podcasts. subscribe today! photo credit: vaynermedia posted in podcast ← michael strahan’s ‘dream big, win big’ guide to transforming your lifethe pursuit: 5 ways to take charge of your life, the brendon burchard way → leave a comment cancel reply comment name (required) email (will not be published) (required) website the life-changing power of trusting yourself how to deal with unexpected change what being a mentor is really all about the power of positive talking 100 simple secrets of productive people get the side hustler's handbook - book #2 in our youeconomy series youeconomy - the side hustler's handbook download the new youeconomy resource that helps you figure out how to get started with your very own side hustle. download the side hustler's handbook popular posts 17 motivational quotes to inspire you to be successful ‘dream it. believe it. build it.’ 25 self-help books you (probably) haven’t read you already know that leaders are readers, and that you... 11 things to do in self-quarantine that are more productive than netflix whether by choice or by decree, you are probably doing... 9 ways to stay productive when you work from home what to do when your couch becomes your office... the power of positive talking positive talking is the next level of positive thinking... 17 quotes about finding inner peace ‘nobody can bring you peace but yourself.’ 100 simple secrets of productive people everyone wants to reach peak productivity—accomplishing... 14 loving quotes about family ‘call it a clan, call it a network, call it a... 10 tips to achieve anything you want in life tackle your biggest goals with these tips from a former... 7 qualities of the most charming people you know the guy. he’s poised. he’s confident. and when... 5800 democracy drive plano, tx 75024 advertise store success team faq terms of use privacy policy contact us about us home blog video sitemap © 2020 success magazine. all rights reserved. we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. privacy policyokno