new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area podcasts transcripts about news contact search episode 11: mike rothman, co-founder of fatherly november 1, 2015 by hal coopersmith in podcasts tags: fatherly, parenting audio mp3 audio mp3 0.75x 1x 1.25x 1.5x 2x 0:00 ... episode 11: mike rothman, co-founder of fatherly apple podcastsgoogle podcastsshare leave a reviewlisten in a new windowdownloadsoundcloudstitchersubscribe on androidsubscribe via rssspotifyplayer embed subscribe to our monthly newsletter! subscribe to our monthly newsletter! i have read and agreed to your privacy policy. podcast: play in new window | download subscribe: apple podcasts | android | rss mike rothman, co-founder and ceo of fatherly, steps on to the new york launch pod to discuss his digital destination for young parents (not necessarily only fathers). realizing that parenting content was not optimized for today’s consumer both in the way it was distributed and in the way ideas, attitudes and behaviors have shifted over time, mike and his co-founder simon isaacs, created a parenting experience for young generation x’ers and millenials. mike, one of the first employees at thrillist, realized a void in the marketplace. as he explains, “a funny thing happens after marketing to young single guys for seven years, namely that audience is no longer single or as young.” so, after an early partnership with the 92nd street y, fatherly has grown from a 300 person email list to over 125,000 subscribers, a website having 1 million unique visitors per month and content syndication with business insider, huffington post, and time.com. there is nothing more high stakes than someone’s child says mike. listen to hear how fatherly develops “incredibly practical” parenting content for developmental milestones and couches it in language and in stories that are more conversational, and better wired for the social web from “ridiculously overqualified people” such as arne duncan on how to hack the pre-k admission process in your neighborhood, a navy seal on how to dominate hide and go seek, and malala and her father on how to raise a nobel peace prize winner. go behind the scenes of fatherly’s incredible growth, how they have been able to develop relationships with content providers, and how they have utilized a seed round of $2 million. transcript of the episode available here: http://nylaun.ch/fatherlyt more on fatherly: https://www.fatherly.com/ share this: « transcript: episode 10: doug hayes, founder of junto health » transcript: episode 11: mike rothman, co-founder of fatherly 2016 new york press club winner for best podcast subscribe are we still friends? new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area (c) bull path media inc. ↑ back to top