skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search equipment there is no “perfect” camera. don’t fall into gas (gear acquisition syndrome) and falsely believe that buying a new camera will make you a better photographer. if you’re not feeling inspired in your photography, i recommend you to buy books, not gear. also check out these 75+ inspirational photo books you gotta buy. you can also download my free books. equipment articles > henri neck strap mark iii ricoh is the new leica in praise of banging around your camera electric cameras why the ricoh gr iii is better than the leica q2 buy a new ricoh gr iii, not a new iphone the best headphones are in-ear monitors are point-and-shoot cameras the best cameras? gear adaptation syndrome satisfice what is the benefit of “standalone” digital cameras? all cameras are good cameras why the future of photography is software ricoh mafia use and abuse your gear! why ricoh gr ii is the best street photography camera the best photography/vlogging equipment setup my favorite travel street photography equipment zen body-hand-mind connection with the camera why it doesn’t matter what camera you shoot with what is the best camera and lenses for street photography? the best travel street photography equipment 2018 6 lessons i’ve learned after shooting all the expensive cameras how to make good photos on a shitty camera why i shoot with one camera and one lens my travel equipment, winter 2017 what is the perfect camera for you? what to consider when buying a camera digital medium format photography why digital medium format is a game-changer for color photography the upsides and downsides of digital medium format photography fujifilm gfx 50r and 45mm f/2.8 lens first-impressions review review of the pentax 645z and digital medium format photography 7 reasons why i love digital medium-format photography my experience shooting digital medium format in street photography my experience shooting my friend’s wedding on digital medium format why digital medium format is the future of photography is digital medium format worth it? 7 lessons i’ve learned shooting fashion for the first time on digital medium format (pentax 645z) smartphone photography > the ultimate beginner’s guide to smartphone photography benefits of shooting street photography with a smartphone in street photography, the smaller the camera, the better film photography 101 > film street photography manual what i learned shooting 100 rolls of black and white film what i learned processing 164 rolls of film my favorite camera: ricoh gr iii currently my favorite camera is the ricoh gr iii: why the ricoh gr iii is the best travel photography camera why the ricoh gr iii is better than the leica q2 why the ricoh gr iii is the best street photography camera the ricoh gr iii (3) is the best camera ever made. best equipment by eric kim lindberg glasses / uniqlo button-up / uniqlo jeans-joggers / nike flyknight motion rn this is a list of my personal favorite equipment in photography, computers, and life: of course, this list probably won’t apply to you — but this is advice i would give myself (if i needed to buy stuff): film cameras if you’re new to shooting film, pick up a copy of film notes. portrait by benjamin thompson // leica mp + henri neck strap + sf 24d flash + leica 35mm f/2 summicron asph lens best film rangefinder leica mp + leica 35mm f/2 summicron lens best affordable film rangefinder leica m6 + voigtlander 35mm f/2.5 lens best compact film camera contax t3 best medium-format film camera hasselblad 500-series best black and white film kodak tri-x 400 (pushed to 1600): $5 best color film kodak portra 400: $8.50 best film scanner for medium-format/35mm: epson v800: $800 for 35mm: plustek opticfilm 8100: $270 camera accessories best camera shoulder bag saigon satchel best camera backpack fits 13” laptop and camera: thinktank perception 15 (black): $120 best photography neck strap henri neck strap eric kim neck strap: (for ricoh grii) best photography wrist strap henri wrist strap best photography inspiration website magnumphotos.com best photography news blog petapixel.com best photography software adobe lightroom best video editing software imovie (free) or final cut pro x ($300) books see all my free books. best educational photography book magnum contact sheets best black-and-white photography art book “exiles” by josef koudelka best color photography art book “the suffering of light” by alex webb best photography handbook street notes best philosophy book on the shortness of life – seneca ($8) // 10 lessons seneca has taught me. best digital tools best laptop maxed-out 13” macbook pro (refurbished) best phone iphone xs best mac apps best writing app ia writer (for writing) best screen recorder camtasia best image resizer jpegmini pro audio best earbuds in-ear monitors apparel best underwear exofficio men boxer brief (black): $26 best t-shirt outlier nyc merino wool t-shirt best socks outlier nyc black merino wool socks best pants merino wool leggings (black) best glasses lindberg – titanium finance best bank chase best entrepreneurial tools best blogging platform wordpress.org + genesis theme best paid online services best cloud storage dropbox (pro) diet & nutrition food intermittent fasting — with one big meal a day (only dinner) workout deadlifts (one rep max) + squats + dumbbell press + chin-ups + pushups conclusion hanoi, 2017 // portrait by cindy a. nguyen of course this is just a list of stuff that work for me. it probably won’t work for you. but i got inspired to make this list– because it took me about 10 years to figure out the best equipment for me. and this works for me, and i hope it can help simplify your purchasing decisions (at least in photography and some other details). i’ll continue to do articles and videos related to equipment– because i do believe (up to a certain degree) having the ‘right’ equipment in life makes life easier. but the problem is falling victim to gas (gear acquisition syndrome) where we are buying stuff for the sake of it (has happened to me). if you already have a bunch of equipment that works for you– stick with it. but if you need some help, i hope this list helped you. always, eric primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta