call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact equity release specialists in leeds there are a variety of reasons why someone might want to release the equity in their home. from supplementing your income, through to paying off debts or helping your children onto the property ladder, equity release can provide you with the funds you need. freedom advice has helped people throughout leeds and the surrounding areas make the best and most informed decisions around equity release options. what is equity release? put simply, equity release is a tax-free solution for over 55s that want to unlock the value of their property by turning it into a cash solution this allows people to spend the money in any way that they wish. depending on the solution that you choose, you can decide to obtain the money as a single lump sum, or in smaller amounts from which you will pay interest. what can equity release be used for? every case that we work with is different. some people may want to undertake home improvements, whereas others will use the equity to support family members. according to the equity release council, around £11 million is released every day, with money being used for a variety of reasons, including so that people can enjoy their retirement without serious financial constraints. frequently asked questions how does equity release work? what is equity release? equity release advice do i qualify? things to consider is equity release safe? how much can i release? alternatives to equity release how can freedom advice help? we have been providing equity release advice to leeds residents for years and we can help you realise your dreams and ambitions by making the right financial decisions for your future. if you have questions about equity release, or are curious as to whether freedom advice can help, contact us on 0113 829 3465, or fill in the contact form below. call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.