skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search sale! eric kim case $ 79 – $ 99 – durable, one of a kind artisanal leather in bronze and phantom black. – each case is unique, proudly bearing the organic and haptic marks of your adventures. – handmade craftsmanship from start to finish with solid brass components, hand stitched and cut. – designed to carry all photography essentials: film, small compact camera, sd cards, lens filters, batteries, chargers, business cards. can be looped through a belt or bag strap. haptic mission: we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > color choose an optionbronzephantom blackclear eric kim case quantity add to cart sku: n/a category: camera straps, bags, & t-shirts description description eric kim case – bronze edition eric kim case – phantom black edition for the everyday photographer create, travel, be prepared for every photography adventure everyday. bronze edition eric kim case – bronze edition eric kim case – bronze edition eric kim case – bronze edition phantom black edition eric kim case – phantom black edition eric kim case – phantom blakc edition eric kim case – phantom black edition endless possibilities designed to carry all photograph essentials: film, small compact camera, sd cards, lens filters, batteries, chargers, business cards. eric kim case attached to eric kim portfolio bag can be looped through a belt or bag strap. perfected for the ricoh gr two sd card slots handmade perfection perfected design front view of prototype eric kim everyday case: fits 5 rolls of medium-format film, and slot for 2 sd cards in front. (note: pictured is a prototype leather color, final leather color available for purchase is only in bronze or phantom black) we researched, tested, and perfected the design for the eric kim case for several years to bring together function and design. durability: all of the components have been tried and tested: from the hand-stitched threading to the brass components and premium leather. art: eric kim case is beautiful, timeless, and over the years it will develop unique patina from your artistic adventures. inspired: we designed the case for the on-the-go film or digital photographer. 5 rolls of 35mm film 5 rolls of medium format film bespoke for the ricoh gr eric kim case in bronze, ricoh gr ii rocking the eric kim mark ii wrist strap, eric kim case in phantom black aesthetics & proportions eric kim case – bronze edition outside dimensions: length: 12cm, height: 8cm, depth 5cm inside dimensions: length: 11.5cm, height: 7cm, depth: 4cm, designed bespoke for the ricoh gr, 5 rolls of 35 mm film or 5 rolls of medium format film, 2 slots for sd cards. hapticlabs innovation haptic labs: eric kim case prototype hapticlabs is our experimental playground to develop small, limited edition projects and collaborations with local artists and artisans. we make our leather products in saigon and honor saigon–we loved our time in saigon; cindy’s family has a close familial connection to saigon; and we are deeply inspired by the lively hustle of young vietnamese artists and entrepreneurs in a city textured by a profound history. unlike huge anonymous factories, the entire operation is eric, cindy, our sisters (annette and jennifer), and the local artisans lan and uyen. we are transparent about the labor practices behind eric kim case because we are proud of it and love it. global entrepreneurship lan and uyen vietnamese artists and artisans we lived in vietnam and are very cognizant of global inequality, especially in labor practices. this is why we price our products the way we do. we work directly with artisans who set above market prices for high end artisanal craftsmanship. we do not run a wholesale factory, but support honest and beautiful work. we spent years perfecting the design, workshopping different versions with the saigon artisans. each eric kim case is made with love and shipped with care from california. color bronze, phantom black you may also like… sale! henri wrist strap chroma limited edition $ 49 – $ 79 select options sale! new henri neck strap mark iii $ 139 – $ 149 select options the city of angels by eric kim $ 3,000 add to cart related products eric kim neck strap mark ii $ 119 read more muse by kim $ 290 add to cart memento mori artwear $ 39 select options primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta