home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads simone de beauvoir on atheism, the ultimate frontier of hope, and the need to move beyond the simplistic divide of optimism and pessimism an antidote to helplessness and disorientation: the great humanistic philosopher and psychologist erich fromm on our human fragility as the key to our survival and our sanity the sane society: the great humanistic philosopher and psychologist erich fromm on how to save us from ourselves labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks erich fromm on human nature, the common laziness of optimism and pessimism, and why we need rational faith in the human spirit “optimism is an alienated form of faith, pessimism an alienated form of despair… to have faith means to dare, to think the unthinkable, yet to act within the limits of the realistically possible.” by maria popova “hope is a gift you don’t have to surrender, a power you don’t have to throw away,” rebecca solnit wrote in her magnificent manifesto for hope in times of despair. “and though hope can be an act of defiance, defiance isn’t enough reason to hope.” decades earlier, the great german humanistic philosopher and psychologist erich fromm (march 23, 1900–march 18, 1980) — a man of abiding wisdom on the art of loving and the art of living — examined the cowardice of despairing pessimism and the much needed courage of rational optimism in his 1972 treatise the anatomy of human destructiveness (public library). erich fromm in considering how we ought to view human nature, fromm distinguishes between rational faith in the human spirit, which is “based on the clear awareness of all relevant data,” and irrational faith, “an illusion based on our desires.” he writes: optimism is an alienated form of faith, pessimism an alienated form of despair. if one truly responds to man and his future, i.e., concernedly and “responsibly,” one can respond only by faith or by despair. rational faith as well as rational despair are based on the most thorough, critical knowledge of all the factors that are relevant for the survival of man. the basis of rational faith in man is the presence of a real possibility for his salvation: the basis for rational despair would be the knowledge that no such possibility can be seen. millennia after plato’s insight into negotiating our parallel capacities for good and evil, fromm adds: the statement, “human nature is evil,” is not a bit more realistic than the statement, “human nature is good.” but the first statement is much easier to make: anyone who wants to prove man’s evilness finds followers most readily, for he offers everybody an alibi for his own sins — and seemingly risks nothing. yet the spreading of irrational despair is in itself destructive, as all untruth is; it discourages and confuses. preaching irrational faith or announcing false messiahs is hardly less destructive — it seduces and then paralyzes. this, indeed, is why cynicism is so seductive in our present culture — a particularly pernicious form of defeatist resignation masquerading as empowered critical thinking. fromm captures this brilliantly: the attitude of the majority is neither that of faith nor that of despair, but, unfortunately, that of complete indifference to the future of man. with those who are not entirely indifferent, the attitude is that of “optimism” or of “pessimism.” the optimists are the believers in the dogma of the continuous march of “progress.” they are accustomed to identifying human achievement with technical achievement, human freedom with freedom from direct coercion and the consumer’s freedom to choose between many allegedly different commodities. the dignity, cooperativeness, kindness of the primitive do not impress them; technical achievement, wealth, toughness do… the optimists live well enough, at least for the moment, and they can afford to be “optimists.” or at least that is what they think because they are so alienated that even the threat to the future of their grandchildren does not genuinely affect them. the “pessimists” are really not very different from the optimists. they live just as comfortably and are just as little engaged. the fate of humanity is as little their concern as it is the optimists’. they do not feel despair; if they did, they would not, and could not, live as contentedly as they do. and while their pessimism functions largely to protect the pessimists from any inner demand to do something, by projecting the idea that nothing can be done, the optimists defend them selves against the same inner demand by persuading them selves that everything is moving in the right direction anyway, so nothing needs to be done. what we need in order to transcend this dual hapless helplessness, fromm argues, is “rational faith in man’s capacity to extricate himself from what seems the fatal web of circumstances that he has created” — something at the center of his philosophy of humanist radicalism: humanist radicalism … seeks to liberate man from the chains of illusions; it postulates that fundamental changes are necessary, not only in our economic and political structure but also in our values, in our concept of man’s aims, and in our personal conduct. to have faith means to dare, to think the unthinkable, yet to act within the limits of the realistically possible; it is the paradoxical hope to expect the messiah every day, yet not to lose heart when he has not come at the appointed hour. this hope is not passive and it is not patient; on the contrary, it is impatient and active, looking for every possibility of action within the realm of real possibilities. in a sentiment evocative of albert camus’s timeless wisdom on happiness, despair, and the love of life, fromm adds: the situation of mankind today is too serious to permit us to listen to the demagogues — least of all demagogues who are attracted to destruction — or even to the leaders who use only their brains and whose hearts have hardened. critical and radical thought will only bear fruit when it is blended with the most precious quality man is endowed with — the love of life. complement the anatomy of human destructiveness, a rousing read in its entirety, with some thoughts on hope, cynicism, and the stories we tell ourselves and a beautiful reflection on how to anchor our humanity in turbulent times, then revisit fromm on having vs. being and what is keeping us from mastering the art of loving. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published april 4, 2016 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2016/04/04/erich-fromm-anatomy-of-human-destructiveness/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under bookscultureerich frommphilosophypsychology view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.