home comments policy subscribe posts by author: eric england expects (a note on, though not a review of, dunkirk) by eric on july 31, 2017 first of all, let nobody say christopher nolan lacks a sense of humor: for the second time, he’s kept tom hardy under a voice-distorting face mask for almost an entire movie. i am morally certain that nolan understands this as a wink to the audience as well as a challenge to hardy; the director likes a little reference, even if, say, it’s an incongruous one to nineteenth-century british literature. which is why i’m also morally certain that if you think nolan’s dunkirk does not include the larger narrative of british history, you’re missing the point of the movie. spoilers follow, i suppose. [click to continue…] from scarcity to abundance by eric on may 9, 2017 i suppose i should begin by saying few things have ever made me feel as old as this book does; doctorow’s idea of utopia seems to be something that maybe some kids would like—but i wouldn’t. i’ve no interest in uploading myself and living indefinitely as a meta-stabilized simulation, even if it means downloading myself someday into some new, buff, handsome body. i find it impossible to believe that either the sim or the physique too sexy for its shirts would ever be, in any meaningful sense, me. i don’t just happen to inhabit my body, which is aging and will someday die; i am it—and that is not just okay; that is me. that aside, let me say that what i take to be the basis for the book is one i find intriguing indeed: how do we navigate the shift from a society premised on scarcity to one premised on abundance? the recent burst of writing on the roboticization of labor has brought home the imminence of an era in which most of us will be economically surplus. keynes had an idea that the abundant society would be one of leisure and widespread artistic endeavor, one toward which we should aim and for which we should plan; his was a fetching optimism, which appears to have no purchase on the zero-sum, inequality-hugging societies of our time. but abundance, and the values that recognize it, is where doctorow wants to go—a future in which acquisitiveness might still exist, but is not only no longer laudable, but has become shameful. doctorow’s novel envisions a utopia that takes the blogosphere and wikis and other online communities (probably not metafilter though) as the basic model for how an abundant society might organize itself. physical spaces are as cheaply furnished in his book as virtual ones now are, online. you could live in a world as sleek and spare and instant as a squarespace site, only less lonely. the key move in establishing such communities is, in doctorow’s imagined future, turning passive-aggression into a virtue—if someone has screwed up, someone else will just fix it; don’t bother trying to hold the erring party responsible. doctorow sketches for us these functioning societies formed by walkaways—self-deportees from a reality not unlike our own. these are real-world spaces, as easily pioneered as a new wordpress blog. they would be just as easily infested by trolls, too—but doctorow seems to think that community norms could quite readily expel such infestations. my own experience of trying to moderate comments sections makes me less optimistic than i take him to be. does this sound as though i’m reviewing a philosophical essay, rather than a novel? i hope i’m not being unfair if i say that doctorow pretty clearly intends this to be a novel of ideas, in which plot and character are secondary to intellectual development. how much you like it will depend on how much you want to turn the ideas over in your head. doctorow writes of one of his characters, after she is walked through an intellectual thicket, “this discussion killed her horniness.” as the kids say these days, “it me.” i stand by @dandrezner, even if he doesn’t by eric on april 12, 2017 yesterday dan drezner said it was embarrassing that us attorney general jeff sessions called illegal aliens “filth.” today drezner apologized, because while the word “filth” was in prepared remarks, sessions didn’t say it, and because even in the prepared remarks, “the context is clear: sessions was going to use ‘filth’ to describe ms-13 and drug cartels, not all illegal immigrants crossing the border.” while i admire drezner’s forthrightness in admitting a mistake i think he has made another one. he should make only the first half of this apology, because, in fact, the context is not clear—as, i can only suspect, is indicated by sessions’s decision not to say the word aloud. [click to continue…] is trump a president with precedents? would you rather brexit, or mr. brexit? by eric on january 16, 2017 those of you fortunate enough to be able to pick up bbc radio 4 on your wireless sets may wish to tune in after your lunches this week of the trump inauguration, at 13:45 for fifteen minutes each weekday,1 to hear trump: the presidential precedents, a programme hosted by ucl historian and 2015 broadcaster of the year adam smith, and devoted to us presidents who came into office promising to upend one apple-cart or another. (presumably if you cannot tune into radio 4 the old-fashioned way, you’ll be able to get the episodes on the internet via streaming audio.) at the american historical association annual meeting this year, i ended a pleasant conversation with a uk-resident friend of mine, who said in parting he’d be happy enough to trade brexit for trump. i hadn’t time to inquire after his logic, so i leave it to you to decide whether you would do likewise. 1this is just before “the archers,” so if you want your sense of relentless continuity restored, just hang around for another fifteen minutes. and now a word from the nineteenth century by eric on december 8, 2016 dear unhappy voters of 2016: we keep hearing you called populists and, to put it in your vernacular, you had one job and you’re doing it wrong. [click to continue…] on the national and international causes of trumpism by eric on november 15, 2016 below the fold you will find what i had to say about the election before the election. this excerpt comes from a paper i wrote for a conference about the obama presidency; the papers were due october 28. in the new york times story about the conference, you will read that “the overwhelmingly liberal group” were, in the main, blindsided by trump’s victory, shouting “get me rewrite!” as you will see, i wasn’t one of those, and i generally stick by what i had to say, though it is, as a draft, a little rough. [click to continue…] paddy’s paying out on the presidency by eric on october 21, 2016 “paddy power is paying out to customers who backed hillary clinton,” i read. reminds me of another story about election day bets that make punters sweat. early in the evening of november 8, 1932—election day, that year—sam lamport was running around democratic national committee headquarters in mid-manhattan (just by grand central terminal) trying to find bob jackson—not the judge, the other one; the judge, who would later be franklin d. roosevelt’s attorney general, chief nuremberg prosecutor, and supreme court justice, was known to democrats of the day as “the good bob jackson,” while this one—the shrewd political operator, dnc secretary, cultivator of attractive actresses and general prohibition scofflaw—was known simply as “bob jackson.” lamport had a lot of money, did well in the textile business, and backed roosevelt through the campaign. he was also a serious ivy league jock, decent-sized man—had played quarterback for brown—unusual for a jewish fellow. and in an expansive moment late in the campaign, he had bet $1000 to jackson’s $100 that hoover’s beating wouldn’t be so awful that the president couldn’t win more than six states. but with early returns coming in, it looked bad for lamport’s 10:1 bet. so he finally found jackson, pulled out a roll of bills, and said, “i’ll give you $200 to be let our of our bet.” jackson didn’t get to be not-good “bob jackson” for nothing. although he thought it would be “a minor crime” and perhaps preying on lamport’s generosity, you see, to take him for $1000, he also thought it was a poor businessman who took a first offer. “make it $300,” he said. lamport didn’t stop a moment, but peeled off another $100, and was glad to be shut of the bet. good thing for him, too. scholars and writers for trump by eric on october 4, 2016 here they are. i imagine regular readers of this site will spot some familiar names. q: when is a dollar pegged to gold not on a gold standard? a: from 1934-1971 by eric on february 1, 2016 on this day, the first of february, in 1934, the new york times carried franklin roosevelt’s proclamation of a new gold value for the us dollar. previously it had been worth 25 8/10 ounces of gold 9/10 fine; now it would be worth 15 5/21 ounces of gold 9/10 fine—or, as it is more commonly said, the dollar had been valued at $20.67 to an ounce of pure gold and now it would be $35 to an ounce of pure gold. but the us was not in 1934, nor would it ever again be, on a gold standard. [click to continue…] wrong on reconstruction, wrong on the alternatives to reconstruction by eric on january 26, 2016 hillary clinton is taking flak today for her summary repetition of the white supremacist dunning school of historical interpretation, which held that the attempt in the 1860s and 1870s to provide african americans with their civil rights was a terrible imposition on the white folks of the south. [lincoln] was willing to reconcile and forgive. and i don’t know what our country might have been like had he not been murdered, but i bet that it might have been a little less rancorous, a little more forgiving and tolerant, that might possibly have brought people back together more quickly. but instead, you know, we had reconstruction, we had the re-instigation of segregation and jim crow. we had people in the south feeling totally discouraged and defiant. so, i really do believe he could have very well put us on a different path.… let’s also think about how we do try to summon up those better angels, and to treat each other, even when we disagree, fundamentally disagree, treat each other with more respect, and agree to disagree more civilly, and try to be inspired by, i think, the greatest of our presidents. i’ll leave critiques of the dunning school in other hands because i think they’re obvious, sadly, and clinton should really know better. i’ll even forgo detail on the obvious point that if you’re a modern democratic presidential aspirant asked who’s the greatest of the us presidents, your answer is franklin roosevelt.1 instead i want to focus on clinton’s counterfactual: “had [lincoln] not been murdered”. [click to continue…] ‘twas mine, ’tis his, and has been slave to thousands by eric on january 23, 2016 in the current los angeles review of books quarterly journal michael w. clune1 writes about odd small episodes, “particularly ephemeral perceptual experiences” we have that may alert us to the gap between how things seem and what they are. riffing on rei terada’s looking away, he lists mirages, after-images; “clouds taken for mountains … looking at a landscape with one’s eyes half-closed so that it appears underwater.” he notes that we have nothing to say to each other about these experiences even if we share them, but that they remain with us. they remind us that if we pay too much attention to the mechanism by which we draw meaning from appearance we attenuate that meaning. one of clune’s examples is an imaginary exchange with a sales clerk about money. [click to continue…] today is a year before us presidential inauguration day. we’re very sure of this. by eric on january 20, 2016 a year from today, the us will inaugurate a new president. but inauguration day has not always been thus fixed. in the early years of the republic, habit (rather than statute) placed the date of inauguration at march 4—though even that convention was not quite firm. in 1821, with the incumbent president james monroe about to take the oath of office for his second term, march 4 fell on a sunday. monroe asked of chief justice john marshall whether he could take the oath on the following day, rather than sully the lord’s day with secular business. [click to continue…] on the inadequacy of “great recession” by eric on january 19, 2016 i dislike the term “great recession” to describe our times, for technical and political reasons alike. technically, the severe recession ended in june 2009. but, as the nber says there, in determining that a trough occurred in june 2009, the committee did not conclude that economic conditions since that month have been favorable or that the economy has returned to operating at normal capacity. and indeed it still hasn’t, six and a half years after the recession ended. in fact, as kevin o’rourke noted, in august of 2015 the inevitable happened: measured in terms of industrial output, our current recovery was overtaken by that of the interwar period. pretty dismal stuff. so now, having avoided quite so severe a contraction as the 1930s, we are suffering a less impressive recovery. what do we call this ongoing period? “malaise” is taken, and rather ruined, by carter-related discourse. i’ve lately been suggesting “the great economic unpleasantness” but without, i confess, really expecting it to catch on. krugman’s old “lesser depression” is looking depressingly correct. the passion of the west, being some notes on tarantino’s hateful eight by eric on january 12, 2016 non-specific plot details discussed herein. [click to continue…] hitchens on the english and their history by eric on january 2, 2016 peter hitchens is less well known in the united states than his late brother, but when asked to write for the new york times, he delivers his mail columnist goods, full-strength. regarding robert tombs’s english and their history: even in free countries it is sometimes necessary to alter the past to suit the present. for instance, i recall the day at my english boarding school in the early 1960s when our sober, patriotic old history books were gathered up and carted away to a storeroom. in their place we were handed bright, optimistic replacements, with a good deal less to say about the empire, the protestant martyrs or what we had been taught without embarrassment to call the glorious revolution.… older english people look back fondly on 1940, when we supposedly stood alone. in fact we were a major industrial and exporting power with a global navy, more or less self- sufficient, nationally cohesive and bolstered by the tribute of a still-great empire. now all of that is gone. is it possible that, after a thousand astonishing years, our island story has finally come to a full stop? will the next great history of our nation and people be written in chinese? now that george macdonald fraser has died, the sources for such views of the empire and its history seem fewer each day. ← older entries recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter