skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search eric kim wrist strap mark ii $ 79 eric kim wrist strap mark ii: available here in the haptic shop in limited quantities. mark ii edition includes: solid brass components, durable and robust leather, minimalist updated design. eric kim wrist strap is your minimalist companion on the streets reminding you to just shoot it. handmade from durable 100% artisinal leather, your strap will wear beautifully over time on your photography adventures. designed for any camera that you would like to have ready in your hand but works best with compact cameras, rangefinders, film cameras. it fits the ricoh gr, fujifilm (xf10, x-pro series, x100-series, etc), micro 4/3rds cameras (olympus, panasonic, etc). it is perfectly designed for small cameras with the loop attachment such as the ricoh gr ii and fujifilm xf10. rather than mass produced, eric kim strap is handmade in small, limited edition batches in order to preserve a superb level of craftsmanship, artistry and quality. haptic mission: we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. read the story behind each strap to find the perfect strap for your photography adventures! only 7 left in stock eric kim wrist strap mark ii quantity add to cart category: camera straps, bags, & t-shirts description description fits ricoh gr fits cameras with side lugs (fujifilm, sony, film cameras) eric kim strap: just shoot it. bespoke. josh white x eric kim strap made of supple artisinal leather, eric kim wrist strap will wear beautifully with you. like the japanese aesthetic of ‘wabi-sabi’ — each strap is beautifully imperfect. over time it will bear the patina and traces of your photographic adventures. motivation. eric kim strap is your constant friend, encouraging you to shoot more. to make more photos with personal meaning, with more intentionality, and with more soul. the more you wear eric kim strap with your camera on your wrist, the more you will be motivated to shoot, and express your creative spirit. subtle. eric kim strap is subtle. all black with brass accents. no pretentious markings or brands. it will disappear into your wrist, and complement your simple style. eric kim strap won’t distract you — it will encourage you to make more photos. eric kim strap is robust. it is strong, elegant, and will endure. investment. eric kim strap is your new companion for any camera: your ricoh gr, fujifilm, leica, sony, compact camera, or small dslr. just shoot it. eric kim strap will not make you a better photographer, but will your companion that will never betray you. when you wear eric kim strap on your wrist, never forget: just shoot it. buy eric kim wrist strap on amazon > the eric kim collection featuring the eric kim case, eric kim wrist strap, eric kim neck strap in phantom black and brass accents honor the traditions of the ricoh–film gr, grii digital, or the upcoming griii (what no flash?!) with your very own ricoh mafia t-shirt. complete the ricoh set with your eric kim wrist strap, eric kim neck strap, or eric kim case designed for the ricoh gr. buy ricoh mafia artwear > the story behind the eric kim strap cindy: all of our leather products — the henri collection (neck strap, wrist strap, wrist strap pro, shoulder strap, chroma) and eric kim collection (wrist strap, neck strap) are 100% leather and handmade and crafted with care from start to finish. each henri strap is hand-made by two of our friends, lan and uyen who are a leather craftsmen and artists in saigon. eric and i are their clients and collaborators, and we worked together with them to design the strap. since they are our friends and collaborators, they have always set the price for the straps to cover their costs and labor. lan and uyen source the leather, handmake the straps during the weekdays between music gigs, and ship them to california from saigon. rather than mass produced, these are handmade in small, limited-quantity batches in order to preserve a level of excellent craftsmanship and quality. each strap is unique. once they get to california, eric and i, (and now with the help of our loving and supportive family) work to quality check, finish, and package each strap: note: depending on the current season and availability, the packaging of your henri neck strap may be different than above. why buy from haptic aka cindy & eric? eric with the henri mark iii in phantom black cindy with the henri mark iii in mahogany brown unlike huge, anonymous factories, this is the entire operation: eric, me, my family, lan, and uyen. we are transparent about the labor practices behind the straps because we are proud and love each product we make. we live in vietnam currently and are very cognizant of global inequality, especially in labor practices. this is why we price our products the way we do. we give a fair and respectful wage to everyone involved. we do not run a wholesale factory, but support honest and beautiful work. haptic mission team haptic in saigon: eric, cindy, jennifer (cindy’s sister), and annette (eric’s sister) haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > erickim & cindynguyen x vitruvian camera artwear each of our art, products, and platforms is a labor of love. many hours, work, money, and thought go into each piece of haptic. we are a collaboration and expression of our families, friends, artists, and the community here. from the bottom of our hearts, thank you for your love and support. love, cindy, eric, annette, jennifer see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries mission statement haptic the place to be on haptic by eric kim introducing haptic (august 2016) see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > you may also like… sale! new henri neck strap mark iii $ 139 – $ 149 select options film notes print edition $ 19 add to cart related products the film shooter read more photographer’s hand artwear $ 39 select options shoot film artwear $ 29 select options primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta