skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search no excuses – street photography 101 another huge obstacle you will face as a street photographer (and a general photographer) is that at times you are not going to … continue reading about no excuses – street photography 101 the world is in your backyard you don’t have to go to the most exotic places to take great photos. often when it comes to street photography, we think of the … continue reading about the world is in your backyard free color and b/w lightroom 3 presets! so these are some presets that i made in adobe lightroom 3 and frequently use when converting my images into color or black and … continue reading about free color and b/w lightroom 3 presets! the one million dollar question so the other day when i stepped out of my office on 3rd street to go take some photos during my lunch break, i was spotted by a … continue reading about the one million dollar question if you want greatness stop asking for permission from my friend roseann marquez's facebook account. link to her twitter. makes me think of one of my favorite quotes: "it is … continue reading about if you want greatness stop asking for permission introduction to street photography for the last year or so, i have actually been working on a "street photography 101" book that i plan on publishing into an ebook. … continue reading about introduction to street photography 100 things i have learned about photography make sure to also read my other more recent list, "102 things i have learned about street photography". written: 10-14-09 just … continue reading about 100 things i have learned about photography todd white “paparazzi” painting so at the online advertising agency that i work (akmg), the ceo there has a real great taste in art. he owns several todd white … continue reading about todd white “paparazzi” painting hello world! hey guys, so this is going to be my new blog in which i will post photos, essays, tips, and insights about street photography and … continue reading about hello world! « go to previous page go to page 1 interim pages omitted … go to page 224 go to page 225 go to page 226 primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta