home comments policy subscribe from the category archives: erik olin wright seminar utopophobophilia by john holbo on may 13, 2013 this is, in a silly way, a footnote to my previous kevin williamson post, but, more seriously, to my contribution to our erik olin wright event. in my post on wright i remarked that, in a sense, he’s pushing against an open door: he wants americans, who think ‘socialism’ is a dirty word, to be more open to utopian thinking. the problem, i pointed out, is that thinking ‘socialism’ is a dirty word is positively, not negatively, correlated with utopianism, because conservatives are, typically, very utopian, especially in their rhetoric – more so than socialists these days; certainly more so than liberals. wright responded that his project “is not mainly directed at ideologically committed conservatives whose core values support the power and privilege of dominant classes. the core audience is people who are loosely sympathetic to some mix of liberal egalitarian, radical democratic and communitarian ideals.” [click to continue…] reflections on real utopias by erik olin wright on april 3, 2013 a very wide range of issues have been raised in the many interesting postings and comments during the crooked timber seminar about my book envisioning real utopias which ran from march 18-28. in what follows i will give at least a brief response to the core themes of each of the eight contributions to the seminar. i will organize my reflections in the order of the contributions in the symposium. [pdf version here] [click to continue…] socialism without a map by henry on march 28, 2013 there is much to admire in erik olin wright’s envisioning real utopias. it’s an intelligent and thoughtful exploration of our current situation (capitalism, and the injustices thereof), the aporias of old-style radicalism (standard issue marxism-leninism – maybe not so useful in explaining the early 21st century), and various small-bore examples of what a better world might be that could perhaps be expanded into something bigger. the examples of little quasi-utopias that wright discusses are familiar ones – but in the case of popular budgeting in porto allegre, wright can hardly be blamed, since his work with archon fung did a lot to highlight this case for english-speakers such as myself. and, of course, i’m biased. i start from a position that is in strong sympathy with wright – i’ve been influenced both by his work, and the work of people who he’s engaged with in both friendly and argumentative ways over the last couple of decades (the various tendencies within the politics and society crowd). if i aspire to a political tradition, it’s wright’s tradition of an interest in radical change, combined with a strong respect for empirically guided analysis. [click to continue…] mainstreaming utopia (updated) by john quiggin on march 26, 2013 the final post in our seminar on erik olin wright’s envisioning real utopias is by marc fleurbaey, with the collaboration of his seminar students inka busack, joaquin garcia, jacob girard, kathryn long, anthony sibley, jiemin wei. there are many details of the book which could be commented upon and praised or criticized, but this short text will focus on three questions which appear central in the real utopias project. why focus on capitalism versus socialism? what role for market transactions? what is the status of utopian research? a final version of the response is now available here ubi vs gmi: utopia vs realism, or just different packaging? by john quiggin on march 26, 2013 one of the examples of real utopia put forward by wright is the idea of a universal basic income (ubi). in its simplest, and arguably most utopian form, the idea is that every member of the community would receive a payment sufficient to sustain a decent standard of living. implementing a ubi in this fashion would pose a huge, arguably insuperable, financing challenge in the context of a market economy. the same isn’t obviously true of a closely related idea, a guaranteed minimum income (gmi) [click to continue…] the possibility of little utopias: russell fox on erik wright by john quiggin on march 24, 2013 i can’t say that erik olin wright’s envisioning real utopias provided me with any particular, brilliant insight, and i suppose someone better read in social theory or analytical marxism than i might have found parts of the book belabored. even i would agree that it was often repetitious, though i think i think russell jacoby was simply talking nonsense when he called the book a “morass.” overall though, nearly three years since i first read it, i still consider it a masterful work. wright’s case for separating the socialist project from the conceptual apparatus of traditional marxism—from its theory of history to its necessarily revolutionary implications—in favor of a “compass” which orients us as we move down numerous different, possibly hybrid routes, towards a greater level of social power and democratic egalitarianism, was entirely persuasive to me. of all those routes, the one which most intrigues me is one which invites reflections that are rarely identified as “socialist,” but more usually localist, communitarian, even burkean (hence my title of this review). but let me come around to that conclusion the long way. full piece is here envisioning real utopias: response from bill barnes by john quiggin on march 23, 2013 i’m going to talk about wright’s complete failure to say anything about the herd of elephants in the room that completely blocks our way toward any of the desirable futures that the book envisions – climate change, environmental degradation, resource depletion, and their epidemiological, social, economic and political consequences. that wright did not recognize this in the course of his five years of work on, and world-wide presentation and discussion of, the book’s arguments, mid 2004 to mid 2009 (pp. xi-xv– “i felt that i was part of a global conversation on the dilemmas of our time,” xv) – that in all those presentations and discussions no one ever raised the climate change/environmental degradation issues with sufficient force as to leave a footprint in the 2010 text – despite the scientific evidence and argument that was accumulating during those same years – that is very telling – a sign of our historic failure in meeting our responsibilities as intellectuals – one mark of the current world-historical failure of the social and policy sciences in general, of intellectuals at large, and of the modern state. [click to continue…] on erik olin wright’s envisioning real utopias – diane coyle by john quiggin on march 22, 2013 by page 3 of envisioning real utopias i was already disappointed. the introduction starts with some examples of real utopias – they are participatory city budgets (ok, promising – new to me); wikipedia (never, ever trust it on living people, or anything controversial); and mondragon (always mondragon – is this really still the best example of co-operative production? it was always cited when i was a student in the late 1970s). so are there better examples of ‘real utopias’, or rather idealism put into practice? yes. from the anti-globalisation movement, slow food and fair trade. a bit of a revival of local currency schemes, the bristol pound being one of the most recent and biggest. the campaign for a living wage, backed by anti-poverty bodies like the joseph rowntree foundation. [click to continue…] a little bit utopian? by john quiggin on march 20, 2013 continuing in our seminar on envisioning real utopias, a contribution from david estlund. like several of the contributions, it’s a bit long for a blog post, so i’m posting the opening paras, and posting it as a pdf. read, enjoy and comment. [click to continue…] utopianism, conservatism, ideal theory: who is trying to get where, from here? by john holbo on march 18, 2013 this is my contribution to the erik olin wright envisioning real utopias book event. one note: our event was originally supposed to kick off round about february 1st. you know how it goes with utopia. delays, delays. i mention this because my rhetorical trick was going to be to check the newspapers, a week before our event, for signs of utopia. as a result, as of today, i’m quoting 7-week old newspapers. (i could have rewritten the post to suit last week’s news. but i find i like my even-more-vintage fish and chip papers better. i’m sticking with ‘em.) let’s start by locating our author’s project – envisioning real utopias – with respect to a familiar dilemma. [click to continue…] envisioning real utopias seminar (now with added links) by john quiggin on march 18, 2013 utopia means “nowhere” so i guess its appropriate that our seminar on erik olin wright’s envisioning real utopias has been in the vaporware category for years. however, we’re finally ready to go live. we’ll be putting up a post every day or two for the next couple of weeks, then erik will respond. some of the posts will be fairly conventional reviews, others will take some particular point as a license to jump off in new directions. enjoy and comment! at the suggestion of a commenter “m”, here are some useful links buy and read the book, http://www.versobooks.com/books/463-envisioning-real-utopias or read chapters here freely accessible here http://www.ssc.wisc.edu/~wright/eru.htm or read an article that summarizes many of the points, here http://www.ssc.wisc.edu/~wright/published%20writing/new%20left%20review%20paper.pdf or listen to this talk that also summarizes a few points, starting at 54:00 http://videoarchive.asanet.org/presentations/2012ondemand_awards_presidential_address.html?plist=2012 or this written version of the talk http://www.ssc.wisc.edu/~wright/published%20writing/presidential%20address%20—%20uncorrected%20page%20proofs%20—%202012.pdf why utopia ? by john quiggin on march 16, 2013 the first question to be asked about erik olin wright’s envisioning real utopias is whether it makes any sense to pursue, or even talk about, utopian projects. [click to continue…] recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter