skip to main content a community of independent local bookstores search for books search enter the terms you wish to search for. toggle navigation menu main navigation locate an independent, local bookstore indie bestsellers indie next list reading group indie next list kids indie next list find indies selling ebooks the impact of amazon's growth escape from mr. lemoncello's library (paperback) by chris grabenstein yearling, 9780307931474, 336pp. publication date: june 24, 2014 other editions of this title: digital audiobook (1/6/2014) paperback (9/19/2017) hardcover (6/25/2013) hardcover (6/25/2013) cd-audio (5/5/2015) prebound (6/24/2014) prebound (6/24/2014) pre-recorded audio player (1/5/2016) list price: 7.99* * individual store prices may vary. description over 100 weeks on the new york times bestseller list! on 44 state award lists! discover what james patterson calls “the coolest library in all the world” in this fun-filled, action-packed bestseller from the much-loved coauthor of i funny and max einstein! “a worthy successor to . . . willy wonka.” —booklist, starred review when kyle learns that the world's most famous game maker, luigi lemoncello, has designed the town's new library and is having an invitation-only lock-in on opening night, he's determined to be there! but the tricky part isn't getting into the library—it's getting out. because when morning comes, the doors stay locked. kyle and the other kids must solve every clue and figure out every secret puzzle to find the hidden escape route! don't miss bonus content in the back of the book—extra puzzles, an author q&a, and more! and look for the puzzle-packed sequels—mr. lemoncello's library olympics, mr. lemoncello’s great library race, mr. lemoncello's all-star breakout game, and mr. lemoncello and the titanium ticket! “full of puzzles to think about [and] puns to groan at . . . this solid, tightly plotted read is a winner for readers and game-players alike.” —kirkus reviews, starred review about the author chris grabenstein is the new york times bestselling author of the wildly popular mr. lemoncello series, the welcome to wonderland series, and many other books. he is also the coauthor of many page-turners with james patterson, including the max einstein series, and of shine!, which he cowrote with his wife, j.j. grabenstein. chris lives in new york city. visit chris at chrisgrabenstein.com and on twitter at @cgrabenstein. look for the latest mr. lemoncello books—mr. lemoncello's all-star breakout game (available now!) and mr. lemoncello and the titanium ticket, coming in 2020! praise for escape from mr. lemoncello's library… here's what people are saying about the mr. lemoncello books! a new york times bestseller "discover the coolest library in the world."—james patterson "lots of action and quirky humor."—the washington post * "a worthy successor to the original madman puzzle-master himself, willy wonka."—booklist, starred * "a winner for readers and game-players alike."—kirkus reviews, starred * "a fun-filled, suspenseful intellectual puzzle."—shelf awareness, starred "will have readers racing to pick up the next volume."—school library journal buy at local store enter your zip code below to purchase from an indie close to you. search online and in-store stock may differ. please call before going to store. or buy here amazon's true cost: lost jobs, storefronts, & revenue locate stores:by name|by zip why shop indie indie next list indie bestsellers indies first link to indiebound affiliate program sign in|create account get help|security & privacy|terms of use copyright © 2020 american booksellers association