skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides tag: essays are men abused online more than women? posted on aug 28, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel (tw: this post discusses online abuse and includes screencaps and discussion of graphic, misogynistic, homophobic, and generally just horrifying language.) i’ve been studying online harassment for a while now. i find myself a case study more often than i would like, and when i present on the topic, my slides are often screencaps of abusive… keep reading when online threats become real. (it’s not just trolling.) posted on mar 15, 2019 posted in: personal essay (note: this piece does not link to any of the shooter’s video or manifesto directly, but some of the news sites that i link to may do so. a few include screencaps of his 4-chan forum discussions. please click with caution.) 49 people died yesterday, gunned down in two mosques in coordinated attacks across new… keep reading i quit twitter for a month. posted on sep 4, 2018 posted in: "lifestyle", nothing to do with travel, personal essay i quit twitter for a month. this should not sound like a profound thing, but for someone for whom the social media platform was essentially an extension of my psyche, the act has felt monumental. i have said, again and again (usually when talking of internet abuse and responding to people who tell me that… keep reading the real reason i hate traveling alone. posted on mar 13, 2018 posted in: air travel, personal essay, random musings when i got home, i cried. finally. rand hugged me, wore that same worried look he gets on his face when something goes wrong and he’s not there for it. for a long time i wondered what it was about me that meant the second i went on a trip on my own, things started… keep reading what kill bill taught me about surviving abuse posted on feb 3, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings when i was 23, a few weeks after kill bill premiered, i dressed up as uma thurman’s character from the film for halloween. in it, she wears a yellow jumpsuit that is itself an homage to bruce lee’s outfit in game of death. i searched for weeks for something similar, and finally found a pair of… keep reading moving on. posted on jan 30, 2018 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings we’ve moved. after 7 years in the townhome we rented – longer than i’ve lived anywhere in my entire, rand and i moved into our first house. it wasn’t far – just across town, but i was surprised by how hard it was, especially for two people who were constantly moving from one city to… keep reading the ambiguity of grace’s story is precisely why we need to talk about it. posted on jan 21, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel i haven’t written about babe.net’s story of a young woman’s evening with aziz ansari because i wasn’t sure what to say about it. i figured if i waited long enough, the issue would pass, and we could move on to other situations that are easier to assess. but the article has lingered in my mind,… keep reading i made the pizza cinnamon rolls from mario batali’s sexual misconduct apology letter posted on jan 10, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay last night, i made cinnamon rolls. i’m not a huge fan of cinnamon rolls, per se, but this recipe was included in mario batali’s sexual misconduct apology letter, and so i feel compelled to make them. batali is not the first powerful man to request forgiveness for “inappropriate actions” towards his coworkers and employees. he is… keep reading the infinite hypocrisy of fake feminist men posted on aug 28, 2017 posted in: random musings image credit. i am at my book reading in portland. though the room is small, it is packed. the audience is mostly friends, though there is a large cluster of people i have never met before. it is, without hyperbole, one of the highlights of my career, the sort of thing i dreamed about when i… keep reading posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 4 next page about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.