skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download essential wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) addons by themebon details reviews installation support development description checkout our latest wordpress themes – 100% free templates and addons for wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) look at our new wpbakery page builder addon. create amazing pages from ready to use template with only single click. there are more than 38+ addons with 5 ready to use templates, just you need to edit it with your own content. bundled with super useful wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) elements with bunch of options to achieve any design with all the power of wpbakery page builder for free. you can build amazing professional layouts for your site with tons of powerfull shortcodes. 38+ addons with one plugin. works with latest wpbakery page builder v5.2.x live demo | get pro version addons list: amazing hover effects carousel anything modern profile card v2 carousel & gallery animated text (typing animation) image hotspot with tooltip easy digital downloads items hover effects pricing table promo block advanced flip box process steps button header block counter time line menu card before after flip box 3d flip box info box promo box service box video cover modal box notification box with icon call to action tooltip divider image caption team member dropcaps profile card contact info moving image woocommerce product slider twitter feed slider soundcloud video popup latest posts slider list item with icons progress bar coming more features 100% responsive all elements super easy installation. unlimited colors. tons of customization options. powerfull shortcodes. seo friendly. easy user interface. works with any theme. all major browser supported. screenshots screenshot 1 screenshot 2 screenshot 3 screenshot 4 screenshot 5 screenshot 6 screenshot 7 installation installing this plugin as regular wordpress plugin. first you need to install wpbakery page builder plugin then install essential wpbakery page builder. this addon plugin works like other page builder addon plugin. go to new page then click on wpbakery page builder then click on add element you should see vc addons menu as name “vc addons” on menu top, click on it you will see shortcode item list. reviews all premium jamzitox october 17, 2019 sucks, all premium. totally premium naimurhasanrwd june 28, 2019 installing this free plugin is matter of joke. it's totally premium. great quality wpjoya may 21, 2019 this plugin is wonderful, it works perfect and easely. also a great costumer service. i am a very happy person with this plugin. joya excellent design quality codenpy may 21, 2019 a great plugin that significantly extends the capabilities of visual composer, in these addons i found absolutely everything i needed for the function to customize the appearance of the site. support works very efficiently and quickly. faced with a problem which, as it turned out, was not related to this plugin. despite this, the support immediately responded and helped to solve my problem. very happy and highly recommended! bad support els guns february 21, 2019 i bought the pro version and ran into an issue with my license. it was still activated on a staging site that didn't even exist anymore. my support period was over so i couldn't get in touch to have the issue fixed. i wrote a bad review on envato to get attention in september 2018 and got an answer that was not useful because i still had to buy support to get it done. i decided to migrate to beaver builder where every question is answered in no time! stay away from wpbakery jayma19 november 5, 2018 buggy, not intuitive at all. read all 18 reviews contributors & developers “essential wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) addons” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors themebon translate “essential wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) addons” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 2.5.7 updated plugin 2.5.6 updated plugin 2.5.5 compatible with latest wordpress version 5.3 2.5.4 fixed several issue 2.5.3 updated plugin 2.5.2 updated plugin 2.5.1 added new option 2.5.0 updated plugin 2.4.9 added new feature 2.4.8 added new feature 2.4.7 added new addon 2.4.6 added new addon 2.4.5 added new addon 2.4.4 added new addon in pro version 2.4.3 tested with wordpress 5.2 2.4.2 added new feature 2.4.1 fixed issues 2.4.0 added new addon 2.3.9 fixed responsive issue 2.3.8 added new addon 2.3.7 added new addon 2.3.6 added new addon 1.0.0 first release meta version: 2.5.7 last updated: 1 month ago active installations: 10,000+ wordpress version: 4.0.1 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 tags: 3dadd onbundlecss3profile card advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 8 4 stars 0 3 stars 1 2 stars 1 1 star 8 contributors themebon support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 4 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.