eszter hargittai professor institute of communication and media research university of zurich contact06 @ eszter.com cv research teaching photos how to's in the media more... welcome! follow me on twitter here. follow me on facebook here. news: see my publications here. brief background eszter hargittai is professor in the institute of communication and media research at the university of zurich where she heads web use project research group. she is also fellow of the institute for policy research at northwestern university. hargittai's research focuses on the social and policy implications of digital media with a particular interest in how differences in people's web-use skills influence what they do online. her work has received awards from the american sociological association, the eastern sociological society, the international communication association, the national communication association and the telecommunications policy research conference. in 2010, the international communication association selected her to receive its outstanding young scholar award, in 2019, ica elected her as a fellow. in addition to her academic articles, her work has also been featured in numerous popular media outlets including the new york times, bbc, cnnfn, usa today, the chicago tribune, the washington post and many others. her work has been supported by the national science foundation, the john d. and catherine t. macarthur foundation, the sloan foundation, the markle foundation, the dan david foundation, the russell sage foundation, nokia, google, and facebook, among others. hargittai is editor of research confidential: solutions to problems most social scientists pretend they never have" (university of michigan press 2009), which presents a rare behind-the-scenes look at doing empirical social science research and co-editor (with christian sandvig) of digital research confidential (the mit press, 2015), which presents more behind-the-scenes experiences of social scientific research in the digital age. she writes an academic career advice column at inside higher ed called ph.do. for more background information, see this feature article in the princeton alumni wekkly. how to's academic professionalization journal submissions slide presentation tips and tricks page tips for efficient web searching stata goodies page recipes how to win the nobel prize more... my photos | my artwork | my erdõs number | geek specs | lights from the sky | remembering 9/11 last updated: june, 2019 contact: contact06 at eszter dot com eszter.com version 3.4 (online since april 14, 1995) save