got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... evangeline lilly finally apologizes for ‘arrogant’ coronavirus message home › coronavirus › evangeline lilly finally apologizes for ‘arrogant’ coronavirus message evangeline lilly has finally apologized for her widely criticized comments on the coronavirus crisis. to recap: last week, the ant-man and the wasp star got into it with some followers on instagram after posting about things being #businessasusual during the coronavirus. the actress suggested she and her family “value freedom over their lives” despite having serious health problems in the home. related: kim k asks for quarantine tips, gets trolled by tswift fans as you can imagine, that message didn’t exactly go over well in the current political climate. well, evangeline is now owning up to her problematic words — and attempting to clarify her thought process. in a long ig post on thursday, the lost star explained her family has been social distancing since march 18 and following the “directives” of the “small community where [she is] currently living.” she wrote: “at the time of my march 16th post, the directives from the authorities here were that we not congregate in groups more than 250ppl and that we wash our hands regularly, which we were doing… two days later, those directives were changed and, despite my intense trepidation over the socioeconomic and political repercussions of this course of action, please know i am doing my part to flatten the curve, practicing social distancing and staying home with my family.” if only she had kept that “intense trepidation” to herself! she then expressed her remorse over the situation, saying: “i want to offer my sincere and heartfelt apology for the insensitivity i showed in my previous post to the very real suffering and fear that has gripped the world through covid19. grandparents, parents, children, sisters and brothers are dying, the world is rallying to find a way to stop this very real threat, and my ensuing silence has sent a dismissive, arrogant and cryptic message… my direct and special apologies to those most affected by this pandemic. i never meant to hurt you. when i wrote that post 10 days ago, i thought i was infusing calm into the hysteria. i can see now that i was projecting my own fears into an already fearful and traumatic situation.” the 40-year-old continued by saying she was “grieved by the ongoing loss of life” and other continued complications of the pandemic, and fearful for the political ramifications that will occur. however, she said: “at the same time, i am heartened by the beauty and humanity i see so many people demonstrating toward one another in this vulnerable time. when i was grappling with my own fears over social distancing, one kind, wise and gracious person said to me ‘do it out of love, not fear’ and it helped me to realize my place in all this.” lilly concluded the post by sending love to all her followers, “even if you can’t return it right now.” related: taylor & ariana donate to fans affected by coronavirus the avenger was (rightfully!) slammed for her insensitive comments, most notably from instagram’s favorite tea-spiller, sophie turner. mrs. joe jonas had particularly strong words for evangeline, even if she didn’t name her: “stay inside, don’t be f**king stupid. even if you count your ‘freedom’ over your health. i don’t give a f**k about your freedom, you could be infecting other people, other vulnerable people around you. so stay inside guys. it’s not cool, and it’s not clever. and that’s the tea.” lilly’s lost co-stars had some things to say about it, too. fans praised maggie grace for a comment she left on the original post, where she encouraged lilly to “trust the extensive science” about the disease: “sure, it’s a free country, but how about choosing to exercise some of that wonderful freedom to have some compassion, trust the extensive science here and not overwhelm health system [sic]. … i say this with all humility , please rethink this. your kids will be just fine without going to gymnastics, i promise . :)” grace also name-dropped their co-star daniel dae kim, who has been diagnosed with the disease: “ps daniel said he is doing a lot better btw . i don’t know, maybe you guys wanna chat?” maggie grace slams her lost co-star’s “concerning” post / (c) evangeline lilly/instagram meanwhile, josh holloway posted his own lost-related coronavirus message to instagram on thursday. in what seems like a subtle dig at freckles, the pic shows a side-by-side of a still from the show with a faux-script that reads: “ext. survivors beach – day. peaceful ocean breeze. cut to: jack and sawyer playing cards on the beach. sawyer: just me, you and the mangoes, doc. jack: yup. that’s what a quarantine is all about, sawyer.” shade? who knows, everything about that show was confusing! lolz! view this post on instagram 🥭🤙🏽 a post shared by josh holloway (@officialjoshholloway) on mar 26, 2020 at 10:26am pdt if the actress’ “heartfelt” apology is to be believed, she’s definitely learned her lesson from this round of public shaming! she claimed she’s “trying to follow responsible recommendations for how to help,” so hopefully some good can come out of this messy situation. ch-ch-check out the apology post for yourself (below)! view this post on instagram hello everyone. i am writing you from my home where i have been social distancing since mar 18th – when social distancing was instituted in the small community where i am currently living. at the time of my mar 16th post, the directives from the authorities here were that we not congregate in groups of more than 250ppl and that we wash our hands regularly, which we were doing. two days later, those directives changed and, despite my intense trepidation over the socioeconomic and political repercussions of this course of action, please know i am doing my part to flatten the curve, practicing social distancing and staying home with my family. i want to offer my sincere and heartfelt apology for the insensitivity i showed in my previous post to the very real suffering and fear that has gripped the world through covid19. grandparents, parents, children, sisters and brothers are dying, the world is rallying to find a way to stop this very real threat, and my ensuing silence has sent a dismissive, arrogant and cryptic message. my direct and special apologies to those most affected by this pandemic. i never meant to hurt you. when i wrote that post 10 days ago, i thought i was infusing calm into the hysteria. i can see now that i was projecting my own fears into an already fearful and traumatic situation. i am grieved by the ongoing loss of life, and the impossible decisions medical workers around the world must make as they treat those affected. i am concerned for our communities – small businesses and families living paycheck-to-paycheck – and i am trying to follow responsible recommendations for how to help. like many of you, i fear for the political aftermath of this pandemic, and i am praying for us all. at the same time, i am heartened by the beauty and humanity i see so many people demonstrating toward one another in this vulnerable time. when i was grappling with my own fears over social distancing, one kind, wise and gracious person said to me “do it out of love, not fear” and it helped me to realize my place in all of this. sending love to all of you, even if you can’t return it right now. el a post shared by evangeline lilly (@evangelinelillyofficial) on mar 26, 2020 at 1:29pm pdt [image via fayesvision/wenn.] related posts nicole richie talks at-home schooling during coronavirus: ‘i spent 10 years preaching no screens’ priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their marriage work! amazon delivery driver caught on camera spitting on package! kylie jenner recalls ‘bleeding from the mouth’ during 2019 hospitalization: ‘sickest i’ve ever been’ click click click next article next article mar 26, 2020 5:47pm pdt share this categories controversy coronavirus viral: news view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved