transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support events & programs intern students for a free tibet is seeking an intern to work closely with the programs director in organizing sft’s major events and fundraisers. the events & programs intern will have the opportunity to contribute to many different projects, including tibet fest, longsho nite, momo crawl, and art for tibet. responsibilities: assist in planning and carrying out of events research and coordination with event venue procure and organize supplies for event recruit and manage event day volunteer crew social media maintenance and event-related outreach assist with web content brainstorm new event and fundraising opportunities experience/skills strong interest and passion for human rights, activism, and grassroots organizing strong organizational, budget management, and project management skills ability to multitask in a fast paced environment can pitch and execute creative new ideas flexibility to work evenings or weekends experience organizing in the new york area is highly recommended commitment: applicants are expected to commit a minimum of 180 internship hours within a 12-week period. compensation: this internship is unpaid, but we are happy to work with you to help you receive class credit. this internship will provide you the opportunity for skill development and work experience in the nonprofit sector; references from senior staff upon successful completion of the internship; unique learning experience in one of the most effective grassroots organizations in the field of political activism. to apply for the events & programs intern position, please send your resume, cover letter, and the names and contact information for two references to grassroots@studentsforafreetibet.org with “events & programs internship” in the email subject line. please do not send attachments – send with google drive or dropbox, or put the text of your application in the body of your email. no phone calls, please. apply now! other internships media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×