about shop blog book radical self love events about shop blog book radical self love events september 2018 fall equinox ritual and workshop live in l.a.! upcoming events september 23 fall equinox ritual and workshop live in los angeles hire me to speak at your event my favourite thing to do is speak to badass babes and magic-makers about radical self love, revolutionary self-expression, and making a living from being yourself. part radical self love evangelist, part punk-rock cheerleader. devastating realness? check! i’ll tell stories, create custom rituals, give actionable advice that you can take away with you, and answer any question you’ve got. i’m here to show you — beyond any shadow of a doubt — that you can do it too. i’ll sign every book, be in every selfie, and hug every babe who comes through. and i promise i’ll wear something fab-u-lous! “the audience is rapt because darling isn’t just a self-help guru but a stylish, sassy witch who swears often and radiates cool-girl vibes. she’s not excessively moony or self-serious about the spiritual stuff. and the witchcraft-lite she weaves into her teachings—feminine power, sexuality, creative enrichment, astrology—is broadly appealing to many young women.” — the daily beast for information about hiring me to speak, please email with details of your event. past speaking events 2017 rooftop rituals the wing radical self love temple retreat tulum, mexico keynote speaker s.h.e. summit radical self love temple retreats marrakech, morocco radical self love workshop the wing 2016 hay house ignite london, united kingdom radical self love salons berlin and hamburg 2015 rise lincoln lincoln, nebraska spirit junkie masterclass new york, new york 2014 radical end of year party sydney, australia radical self love ritual melbourne, australia radical self love salons new york and london 2014 / 13 / 12 the blogcademy new york; london; portland; los angeles; new york; minneapolis; austin; london; brisbane; melbourne; auckland 2013 radical self love party brisbane, australia sustaining women in business sydney, australia 2012 nepa blogcon keynote speaker her campus national conference new york, new york tedxcmu pittsburgh, pennsylvania social media week new york, new york fashion 2.0 social media award presenter new york, new york altitude design summit salt lake city, utah 2011 nyu’s school of continuing & professional studies new york, new york samuel marsden collegiate school wellington, new zealand st. margaret’s college christchurch, new zealand fashion 2.0 social media awards presenter new york, new york independent fashion bloggers conference new york, new york 2010 independent fashion bloggers conference new york, new york emerging writers’ festival melbourne, australia & online south by south west interactive austin, texas independent fashion bloggers conference new york, new york fashion 2.0 social media awards presenter new york, new york 2009 wrath of cannes brooklyn, new york south by south west interactive austin, texas testimonials “gala’s understanding of digital culture comes through as brilliantly in person as it does on the screen. she conveys a vast depth of knowledge while remaining accessible and incredibly entertaining. she is as inspiring as she is delightful!” john ‘halycyon’ styn “gala was a true star at the panel – she combined honest opinions with really valuable advice, all topped with her sparkling personality. the audience can’t get enough of her, and she is as engaging in-person as she is online. a natural speaker, she knows to express her passion with words, and to inspire people.” yuli ziv “newbie or veteran, i think everyone gained some inspiration & insight about the blog-world with gala on the ifb business of blogging panel. gala relayed her advice in the most upfront and personable manner. she made the goal of monetizing a personal blog seem attainable without a team of business advisers, just true quality content, passion and a little savvy. i loved her perceptive advice about premium content and effective advertising tactics. what’s not to love about a no-b.s. pep talk with the track record to back it up!? oh, and let’s not overlook those dreamy blue eyes & accent…” jazzi mcgilbert “gala is a dynamic, charming and engaging speaker — in or out of her sparkly mickey mouse ears. i saw her on the “growing up online” panel at sxswi, and was so impressed by her skills that i invited her to speak on my own panel the next year.” molly crabapple contact me about speaking currently booking new events worldwide contact @galadarling on instagram load more... about shop blog book radical self love events instagram twitter facebook youtube pinterest contact love@galadarling.com subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content! © darling industries. all rights reserved. design and development by we are branch. | disclaimer subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content!