skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events events wordcamp asia 2020 canceled over covid-19 concerns justin tadlock · february 12, 2020 · 8 comments matt mullenweg announced this morning that he made the call to cancel the first wordcamp asia amid concerns surrounding covid-19, … continue reading wordcamp asia 2020 canceled over covid-19 concerns → wordcamp houston returning after 10 years justin tadlock · january 16, 2020 · 10 comments after a 10-year hiatus, wordcamp houston will return in 2020. the event will run from may 9-10 at the hilton … continue reading wordcamp houston returning after 10 years → wp&up to hold #dosummitgood online event for giving tuesday justin tadlock · november 27, 2019 · 2 comments on giving tuesday, december 3, wp&up is holding an online event called #dosummitgood that features speakers from various “for good” … continue reading wp&up to hold #dosummitgood online event for giving tuesday → wp agency summit kicks off december 6 justin tadlock · november 20, 2019 · 7 comments wp agency summit, a virtual event for wordpress agencies, will kick off december 6, 2019, and last through december 16. … continue reading wp agency summit kicks off december 6 → wordcamp us 2020 date and location announced, new weekday schedule justin tadlock · november 13, 2019 · 5 comments mark your calendars, folks. wordcamp us 2020 will start on a…tuesday. on november 11, the wordcamp us team announced that … continue reading wordcamp us 2020 date and location announced, new weekday schedule → state of the word 2019 recap: all roads lead to the block editor justin tadlock · november 4, 2019 · 28 comments if there was one common theme in matt mullenweg’s state of the word address this year at wordcamp u.s., it … continue reading state of the word 2019 recap: all roads lead to the block editor → not attending wordcamp us 2019? how to watch from home justin tadlock · october 28, 2019 · 3 comments for those of you unable to attend wordcamp us at st. louis, missouri, this weekend, the event will be available … continue reading not attending wordcamp us 2019? how to watch from home → meetup.com introduces rsvp fees for members, wordpress meetup groups unaffected by pricing changes sarah gooding · october 15, 2019 · 17 comments meetup, a subsidiary of wework, has announced a significant change to its pricing structure that will require members to pay … continue reading meetup.com introduces rsvp fees for members, wordpress meetup groups unaffected by pricing changes → gatsby days london features multiple wordpress presentations sarah gooding · october 1, 2019 · 2 comments gatsby days london kicked off yesterday with a lot of momentum after gatsby inc. announced a $15m series a funding … continue reading gatsby days london features multiple wordpress presentations → hacktoberfest 2019 registration is now open sarah gooding · september 25, 2019 hacktoberfest has started back up again for its sixth year running, sponsored by digitalocean and dev. the annual event brings … continue reading hacktoberfest 2019 registration is now open → wordpress community contributors to host free online diversity workshop ahead of wordcamp us sarah gooding · september 19, 2019 · 3 comments wordcamp us will debut a new community track in november that will feature sessions and workshops on topics like meetups, … continue reading wordpress community contributors to host free online diversity workshop ahead of wordcamp us → posts navigation 1 2 … 34 next → recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram