skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow upcoming events smashingconf 2020 smashing conferences are friendly, inclusive events for people who care about their work. no fluff, no fillers, no multi-track experience — just actionable insights applicable to your work right away. with live sessions on accessibility, performance, front-end, ux, css, javascript and interface design. please respect our code of conduct. what’s smashingconf like? ↓ get 10% off all tickets with your smashing membership. just sign in. get 10% off all tickets with your smashing membership. just sign in. everything is better with more cats! upgrade your membership and save $50 off all tickets. holy cow! you’re saving $50 off all tickets with your membership — you’re on fire today! you’re saving $100 off all tickets with your membership — you totally deserve a raise! @smashingconf #smashingconf now online! online workshops  april 2020 just like in-person workshops, but online. practical sessions on front-end, design & ux, with interactive exercises, access to experts, slides, recordings and a friendly q&a. ⛳explore all speakers and topics ↬ hint: upgrade your membership to get $50 off. don't forget to apply your $50 membership discount. don't forget to apply your $100 membership discount. regular tickets! austin, us  june 9–10, 2020 the smashing cat is coming to austin, texas, y’all! accessibility, web performance, privacy, designing for mobile, html email and css/javascript. 🌮explore all speakers and topics ↬ hint: upgrade your membership to get $50 off. don't forget to apply your $50 membership discount. don't forget to apply your $100 membership discount. regular tickets! freiburg, germany  sep 7–8, 2020 the 9th smashingconf freiburg in our lovely hometown in germany. with sessions on front-end, design, ux, privacy, vr/ar and design patterns. 🤸‍♀️explore all speakers and topics ↬ hint: upgrade your membership to get $50 off. don't forget to apply your $50 membership discount. don't forget to apply your $100 membership discount. regular tickets! new york, us  oct 20–21, 2020 new york, new york! with sessions and workshops on accessibility, interface design, front-end, vue.js, ux, performance, css/javascript, privacy, design patterns. 🔮explore all speakers and topics ↬ hint: upgrade your membership to get $50 off. don't forget to apply your $50 membership discount. don't forget to apply your $100 membership discount. rescheduled! san francisco, us  nov 10–11, 2020 let's rock'n'roll! sessions on performance, accessibility, ui design, debugging, react, machine learning and practical css/javascript jazz. plus workshops on front-end & ux. 🎸explore all speakers and topics ↬ hint: upgrade your membership to get $50 off. don't forget to apply your $50 membership discount. don't forget to apply your $100 membership discount. what’s smashing conference like? smashingconf is a friendly, inclusive event which is focused on real-world problems and solutions. 2 days, 1 track, 14 speakers, 300–500 attendees and a bunch of hands-on workshops. our speakers rarely show slides: they show how they work — their setup, techniques and shortcuts for getting work done in live interactive sessions. so expect everything from refactoring and debugging to sketching and redesign, live. smashingconf is focused on front-end and ux, but it covers everything web, be it interface design or machine learning. that means a packed bundle of diverse, actionable insights for your work. what’s the atmosphere like? well, take a look at the conference showreel, videos from previous events, and photos.not convinced yet? ↓ conference photos by our good friend marc thiele. “8 reasons why you should send your incredibly hard-working, deserving employee to the smashingconf” (download the pdf). quite self-explanatory, really. get "convince your boss" pdf ↓ is smashingconf really special? we’re putting our heart and soul into crafting personal, inclusive and valuable events for all of us to become better professionals. no fluff, no fillers, no multi-track experience and no large hotel halls. instead, thoroughly curated speakers, sessions and hands-on workshops in a friendly, inspiring and exciting setting. here’s what you can expect: 2 days, 1 track, 300–500 attendees, focus on real work & pain points, practical, actionable insights, live designing and coding sessions, hands-on workshops, approachable speakers, collaborative note-taking, job & hiring opportunities, diverse and safe space, inclusive and fully accessible space, challenges and hackathons, lightning talks by attendees, truly smashing time with people who care about their craft. we’re honored to provide diversity scholarship and discounts for repeat attendees, large groups (5+ attendees) and students. interested? just email amanda and we’ll sort it out! by purhasing a ticket, you also support smashing diversity and community scholarships.get your tickets → browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top