skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more by pat flynn on october 18, 2019 everything is figureoutable by marie forleo: issue 65 | october 2019 in the october 2019 issue of the spi book club, we’re reviewing marie forleo’s everything is figureoutable! share: marie forleo is someone i’ve looked up to for a very long time. we connected at a pencils of promise gala a few years ago, and she’s just as kind and engaging in person as she is on her popular youtube channel, and on her website. she helps women (mainly) start successful businesses. she’s the founder of b-school, an amazing program that many of you may have heard, or have even graduated from. i know that one of the greats amy porterfield has! i have not taken b-school myself, but i’ve interacted with marie’s videos and website content and engaged with her in person, and i just love her style, her personality, and i was excited to learn about her new book. i personally asked her for a galley copy early before launch so that i could read it and potentially feature it here in this book club! i’m excited i did, because the book is fantastic. based on the title, everything is figureoutable, (amazon link; full disclosure: as an affiliate, i receive compensation if you purchase through this link.) i knew there was going to be some elements of tackling belief and mindset, because i know from experience, as you probably know too, it’s what happens from the neck up that really determines most of our outcomes. if you don’t believe something can happen, it likely won’t. i really love marie’s take on this idea. she breaks out belief to have five different components that help us understand why we believe things are the way they are: environment experience evidence examples envisioning she goes into each of these categories in depth, and each are so spot on. then, she hits us hard: “all beliefs are a choice, and choices can be changed.” breaking it down like this, the truth is more easily attainable, and it’s easy to begin thinking about our fears, where they come from, and how we can often make a choice to move out of that fear, and learn from it. i’m in full support of marie’s mantra that fear is your soul’s gps—it’s where you should go. marie has this amazing way of both inspiring through example, and giving you the tangible steps to take action. at the end of each chapter, for example, there’s an “insight to action challenge,” brief questions and exercises you can do to help your way through that particular challenge. although much of the book is on topics we’ve heard and read about before, marie’s superpower is the way in which she encourages us to take action and really believe in ourselves. there are success stories from her audience throughout the book as well, which are a nice supportive touch. reading everything is figureoutable (amazon link) is like receiving a giant, personalized letter from marie, and with her caliber, her experience, and knowing just why she’s doing what she does, it’s a very welcome message and i’m happy to have received it. [full disclosure: as an affiliate, i receive compensation if you purchase through this link.] buy the book on amazon reader interactions read next: 7 tips for staying sane while working from home read next post similar posts you might also likeview more posts book club talk triggers by jay baer and daniel lemin: issue 58 | january 2019 in the january 2019 issue of the spi book club, we’re reviewing talk triggers by jay baer and daniel lemin! book club never eat alone by keith ferrazi: issue 21 | december 2015 in the december 2015 issue of the spi book club, we’re reviewing never eat alone by keith ferrazi! want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less