home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads the body politic electric: walt whitman on women’s centrality to democracy crossing brooklyn ferry: astrophysicist janna levin reads walt whitman’s stunning serenade to our interlaced lives across space and time what you need to be warm: neil gaiman reads his humanistic poem for refugees, composed from a thousand definitions of warmth from around the world labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you: whitman’s immortal words, illustrated in stunning cyanotype a charitable celebration of art, science, our shared belonging. by maria popova “every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you,” walt whitman wrote in one of his profoundest verses, in a golden age of science and social change, yet an era at least as divisive as ours. the sentiment became a focal point for figuring and inspiration for the astronomy of walt whitman — the special pop-up edition of the universe in verse, taking place on governors island on october 26, 2019. in the generous spirit of the show — an immense labor of love, with everyone involved donating their time and talent to the celebration of art, science, and community — artist lia halloran has painted a stunning cyanotype incarnation of whitman’s ennobling words, which we are making available as a high-quality art print and framed wall art, with 100% of proceeds benefiting the endeavor to build new york city’s first public observatory at pioneer works. art by lia halloran for the universe in verse: the astronomy of walt whitman. available as a high-quality art print and framed wall art. lia is also donating the original painting to an auction benefiting fulcrum arts — a wonderful la-based nonprofit at the nexus of art, science, and social change, advancing the equitable representation of women, people of color, and lgbtq artists. a limited number of prints will be available at the governors island gathering on saturday — join us for an unusual, magical, and unrepeatable experience that widens our news-constricted perspective and invites us to unforget our shared belonging through the lucidity of science and the luminosity of poetry. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published october 19, 2019 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2019/10/19/lia-halloran-walt-whitman-universe-in-verse/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under artculturelia halloranpoetrysciencethe universe in versewalt whitman view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.