i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: chinese sausage carbonara recipe ~ 5 ingredients comfort easy mains meat free pasta recipes that noodle life everything bagel spice aglio e olio pasta when you’re looking for a fun twist on pasta aglio e olio, this everything bagel pasta is for you. savory sprinkles make everything taste better! posted march 19, 2020 by stephanie when you think of bagels, do you think of new york? everything bagel spice? cream cheese? how about montreal? there’s a bagel war and the main players are plush and chewy new york style bagels and smaller denser montreal style bagels. i’ve had both and i actually like new york style bagels better. the montreal bagels i’ve tried were good, but…it was almost like i would have preferred if they called them something other than bagels. plus they didn’t have everything bagels, so that was a mark against them. i mean, everything bagels are, well, everything. are you guys fans of everything bagel spice? it’s a huge yes for me. i love love the onion-y garlicness and the poppyseeds. so good. i’ve definitely taken to sprinkling everything bagel spice on all the things, kind of like a version of japanese furikake, which is a tasty savory rice topping that people use liberally to add flavor. hmm, now that i think about it, i haven’t had everything bagel on rice yet, but i’m definitely going to be doing that soon. in the meantime, everything bagel aglio e olio is pretty much perfection. all you need to do is heat up some good quality olive oil and then infuse it with some sliced garlic and everything bagel spice. the oil plumps up the dehydrated onions and garlic and lightly toasts the poppyseeds. the oil ends up incredibly flavorful and that’s what you toss the pasta in. finish everything off with some parm and your have an everything bagel noodle bowl. only thing, if you super sensitive to salt but want even more everything bagel goodness, don’t just add everything bagel spice wildly – it has a huge amount of salt in it. feel free to mix up your own everything bagel sans salt (they sell dehydrated onions, garlic, and poppyseeds in the bulk section) and then sprinkle to your hearts desire. i like sprinkling on a bunch after plating so there’s a bit of crunchy topping. happy noodling! everything bagel spice aglio e olio pasta a simple pasta with everything bagel spice and parmesan serves 2 prep time 1 min cook time 9 mins total time 10 mins ingredients 6 ounces long pasta of choice i used bucatini 2 tbsp olive oil 2 clove garlic sliced 2 tsp everything bagel spice see notes 1/2 cup freshly grated parmesan instructions bring a large pot of water to a boil. cook the pasta 2-3 minutes shy of al dente (according to the package cooking time). while the pasta is cooking, add the olive oil to a big skillet. add the garlic and turn the heat to medium. cook, stirring, for one minute, then add the everything bagel spice and continue to cook, stirring, until the garlic is slightly golden. add 3/4 cup of the boiling pasta water (be careful, it will sizzle and splatter) and bring to a boil until reduced by half, about 2-3 minutes. use tongs to move the pasta to the pan. finish by cooking the pasta in the sauce, tossing occasionally, until the pasta is al dente. if dry, add a bit more hot pasta water. if too soupy, reduce over medium high. remove from the heat and toss with the cheese until melted and glossy. notes if you’re sensitive to salt, you might want to make your own everything bagel spice and leave out the salt and then salt to taste. to make a salt-less everything bagel spice: mix together 1.5 tablespoons toasted sesame seeds, 1 tablespoon of poppyseeds, 1 tablespoon dried garlic, and 1 tablespoon dried onion. 7 comments fran says: march 20, 2020 at 5:58 am i mix the bagel seasoning with toasted breadcrumbs and then i put it on pasta tossed with evoo and parm. yum. reply stephanie says: march 20, 2020 at 1:09 pm ooh yes, toasted breadcrumbs :) reply sabrina says: march 21, 2020 at 7:56 am yay, i can eat pasta one day per week and this is it, looking forward to everything with it, in the everything bagel kind of way, thank you! reply annie says: march 21, 2020 at 12:09 pm as a montrealer, i just wanted to say that we do have everything bagels here!! i eat them all the time! depending where you go in town, they might be called “all dressed” bagels. it’s a term we commonly use to describe anything from chips to pizza that have a mix of flavour or toppings. reply stephanie says: march 21, 2020 at 7:36 pm ooh thanks for the tip! next time we’re in montreal i’ll be sure to get an all dressed bagel. and the chips and pizza too ;) reply b says: march 22, 2020 at 3:22 pm legit shocking not to have seen all of the all-dressed bagels at every bagel place in montreal?! they rock because they’re covered on both sides–ny bagels only have seeds on one side, which is not for me! reply stephanie says: march 23, 2020 at 4:48 pm hi b, i’m not sure what happened, maybe they weren’t making all dressed at the specific time i went?! i was at st viateur and fairmount i’m truly sad because i love everything/all dressed. they only had plain and sesame?! but now that i think about it i think i had an all dressed bagel waaaaaaay back in 2017. hopefully i’ll get to go to montreal soon to have another :) reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website everything bageleverything bagel spicenoodlesparmesanpasta better than takeout sesame noodlesread instant pot pasta and meatballsread ziti alla norma aka eggplant and tomato pastaread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved