evernote uses cookies to enable the evernote service and to improve your experience with us. to learn more, check out our cookie policy. by clicking ok or continuing to use our site, you agree that we can place these cookies. ok click "ok" to return to yinxiang.com ok evernote plans basic take great notes premium unclutter your life business bring your team together compare plans find the evernote solution that fits your needs features sync and organize keep your notes handy web clipper a save button for the web templates make better notes, faster pdf & doc search find information anywhere spaces bring your team together search handwriting find text in any note document scanning go paperless with evernote integrations connect your favorite apps help & learning about us about us learn about the company careers opportunities at evernote why evernote save, sync and share it all contact us need help? get in touch download or log in evernote download or log in plans basic premium business compare plans features sync and organize web clipper templates pdf & doc search spaces search handwriting document scanning integrations help & learning about us about us why evernote careers contact us privacy center privacy overview privacy policy gdpr cookie information data usage transparency report third party applications vendors job applicants updates legal home privacy overview evernote is committed to the privacy and security of your data. our goal is to help you organize, find, and use your data to be your most productive self while respecting your privacy and honoring the commitments we've made in our three laws of data protection. follow the links on this page to learn more. evernote’s 3 laws of data protection your data is yours we do not own your data. putting notes and other content into evernote does not change that content's ownership or copyright status. if the data was yours to begin with, it remains yours after you put it in evernote. of course, if the data wasn’t yours to begin with, putting it in evernote doesn’t make it yours. this is true of all of our products and services. by using our products, you give evernote permission to do certain things with your data so that we can run our service. for example, you give us permission to back it up, send it over a network, index it for searching, display it on your various devices, etc. some of these operations may require us to send your data to our normal business partners–such as a network operator–that we have contracted with to provide parts of the evernote service. before we do this, we’ll always make sure that our contracts with such partners protect your ownership rights. other than giving us the permission to perform these limited operations so we can run the evernote service, you retain all the rights to your data. your data is protected everything you put into evernote is private by default. we are not a “big data” company and do not try to make money from your content. our systems automatically analyze your data in order to power evernote features, such as search and related notes, and to tell you about important features and products that we think will enhance your evernote experience, but we never give or sell your content to any third party for advertising purposes. our business model is old-fashioned: we only make money when you decide to pay us for a great product. this means that trust is our biggest asset and keeping your data private is fundamental. there are features in evernote which allow you to publish and share some of your notes with others, but these are totally optional and whether or not you use them is up to you. if you choose to connect your evernote account with one of our many partners, you may be giving the partner access to some or all of your data. we will tell you how the partner application will access your account and you can turn off access whenever you want. in addition, we take many precautions to protect your data from accidental loss and theft. everything you put into an evernote synchronized notebook is stored in our secure data center with multiple redundant servers, storage devices and off-site backups. communications between evernote clients and servers (and between our various data centers) are all encrypted. we provide industry-leading security technologies, like two factor authentication, to all users, and we’re constantly investing in ways to improve data protection. we take the utmost care in protecting your password and no one at evernote will ever ask you for it. we support industry efforts to promote full transparency about government requests for data and have established a comprehensive legal process for handling such requests. view our transparency report for more details. your data is portable even though millions of people have their most important information in evernote, we still want to make sure that they can leave the service quickly and easily. there is no data lock-in with evernote. we are committed to making it straightforward for you to get all of your data into, and out of, evernote at any time. our desktop software lets you export all of your notes and content in human-readable html, as well as a fully documented machine-readable xml format. we also have a full, free api that lets you access all of your data. our philosophy is that by making it possible for you to leave at any time, we’re forever-motivated to build great things so that you’ll want to stay. and we hope you do stay, for years and even decades. to this end we’re committed to investing in technologies that will make your data accessible far into the future. this note is not a legal document, it’s meant to be a plain-language description of our fundamental business values and how we think about your data. we’ll update it from time to time to keep up with the times, but the core principles will not change: your data is yours, your data is protected and your data is portable. we’re trying to build a hundred year startup and this is how we aim to do it. for information about our privacy and security practices please read our privacy policy. you can read more about your rights and responsibilities in our terms of service. privacy policy this notice informs users about how evernote collects, uses and discloses their information. cookie information this page explains how we use cookies and similar technologies and how users may disable these technologies. transparency report our transparency report details the number and type of requests for user information that we received in the last calendar year. product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations notes sync pdf & doc search search handwriting document scanning notebooks & tags community our community certified consultants beta program developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose a language: english (us) bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu dansk deutsch english (us) español español (américa latina) français italiano nederlands polski português (brasil) português (portugal) suomi svenska tiếng việt türkçe русский العربية ภาษาไทย 한국어 中文（简体） 中文（繁體） 日本語 facebook twitter medium instagram youtube linkedin © 2020 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy