pages home welcome post for new viewers best read in 2019 resources advertising portfolio contact november 20, 2018 volunteering day at fdds, warsaw, poland in june the design was completed. and now, in october, which is earlier than anybody expected, we are starting the implementation phase. and all this thanks to people of good will who decided to devote some of their time and energy. on october 4, 2018, a group of over 40 people appeared at 8.30 a.m. at the fdds therapeutic center to begin the first step of starting the garden. we started the day with a short presentation about what the foundation (fdds - foundation we give children the strength) basically does. when we hear that they "provide comprehensive help to abused children" it sounds so generic that it does not always makes us comprehend the size of the abuse. but when we hear that in every ten children in the classroom, three of them are abused at home, it starts to sound a little different. i guess the biggest impression on me was made by the information that the telephone helpline 116 116 for kids is calling nonstop and the line itself is supported by eighty consultants. eighty. it stimulates the imagination. the second part was my few words about the project. everyone, in a great physical condition and in motivated spirit, with a certain dose of shyness began to inspect the square of work. as you can see the garden bed is beautifully overgrown with weeds. it was cleared, we removed weeds, stones, debris, enriching the dirt with natural fertilizer, to prepare it for spring plantings. i decided to cover the entire bed with a pinebark chips, to protect it against the overgrowth of the weeds by spring, improve the water conditions and enrich the soil a little while it will decompose slowly during winter. tools are waiting... the gals from foundation did their best to lead their groups bravely. in the picture from the left magda and iza, but apart from them there was also ula and kasia, which were not in the picture and an unknown group of heroes of the background, whose names i had no opportunity to learn. and on the right, my humble person. the work is on. i must admit that before the start i was a little afraid if we would be able to do everything, because at the end we were still planting 40 plants. however it was enough to look at the spirit and motivation of working volunteers. the work was burning in her hands! and it became obvious that we can do everything... less and less weeds, more and more exposed soil and still a lot of work in painstaking cleaning of the earth. discussion about what with what, how and where .... it seems that the stage of scattering the bark on the rebate was the nicest, or at least the merriest occupation, because as you can see the competition started in whoever lifts the most bags. in the picture above, the winner seems to be ... the bark comes and slowly gets nicer. this was the final result of the work of 40 people for 4 hours. beautiful! it was a really merry and beautiful day. everyone worked together in a good spirit, with a smile and a willingness to help each other. although it was not easy, because it is one of the hardest work in the garden, requiring good physical condition. we were very happy with the good weather blesssing - it did not rain, it got sunny and warm. thank you so much for this wonderful day, which shows what strength we have when we unite in a common goal! i hope to see the same group in the spring when the planting comes. i greet everyone cordially! 0 komentarze linki do tego posta october 12, 2018 colorful perennials - new garden design i am very happy to show you today the colorful perennials garden located in poland that i have designed 3 years ago. you see it in almost autumnal version. the main idea was to make it interesting all year round and make it flowering from early spring till late autumn. nothing tastes better than organic home grown tomatoes. thank you ania! 2 komentarze etykiety: autumn, garden design, garden tours, inspirations, my country, organic, perennials, summer linki do tego posta older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) keep reading - more great stuff in older posts subscribe by e-mail enter your email address: ewa in the garden on the list: 50 best gardening blogs they write about us: mediterranean gardening and outdoor living garden bloggers conference, atlanta 2014 hortus horrei your garden matters all about gardening the independent usa today christian science monitor let's connect happy to see you again! blog archive ▼ 2018 (3) november (1) october (1) june (1) ► 2017 (7) november (1) september (3) may (1) march (2) ► 2016 (5) july (1) april (3) january (1) ► 2015 (32) december (2) october (5) september (1) august (4) july (2) june (4) may (3) april (4) march (4) february (2) january (1) ► 2014 (44) december (6) november (7) october (7) september (1) august (2) july (3) june (3) may (5) april (8) march (1) february (1) ► 2013 (61) december (5) november (2) october (5) september (8) august (16) july (11) june (3) may (4) april (6) march (1) ► 2012 (10) november (1) september (1) june (2) may (1) february (3) january (2) ► 2011 (75) december (7) november (10) october (8) september (7) august (8) july (7) june (3) may (5) april (6) march (5) february (2) january (7) ► 2010 (88) december (3) november (2) october (5) september (5) august (6) july (8) june (15) may (10) april (18) march (8) february (4) january (4) ► 2009 (112) december (5) november (5) october (4) september (17) august (9) july (5) june (6) may (13) april (11) march (19) february (9) january (9) ► 2008 (145) december (15) november (11) october (10) september (9) august (14) july (6) june (16) may (13) april (11) march (13) february (15) january (12) ► 2007 (30) december (11) november (12) october (7) . finalist best european blog'08 2008 finalist - best international blog edibles - great reading civil eats stay-put cooking: how to stock your pantry and cook down your fridge agricultural biodiversity weblog nibbles: coronavirus, fungal masks, cannabis, coconut posters, conservation evidence cooking up a story can organic agriculture feed the world? —fred kirschenmann bifurcated carrots defensive publishing may protect seeds from patents in the us my little vegetable garden matoa at desa seri iskandar tiny farm blog» organic gardening: vegetables, herbs, flowers – growing local food a bushel of music vegetable vagabond rekindling the spirit within digginfood how to gain popularity through buying twitter followers organic kitchen gardening and my personal musings » this grew in spite of me back in my garden after 5+ years olivesandartichokes a swallowtail and some passing cyclists a kitchen garden notebook perilla (shiso) show 5 show all blogs i read french essence the “at-home” diaries: eye spy 2 hours ago may dreams gardens what's at the end of your street? 4 hours ago digging mexico city: jacaranda purple haze, centro histórico, and native plants 6 hours ago a way to garden — a way to garden the power of seeds, and of sunflowers, with ken greene 7 hours ago you grow girl springtime boom and bust 1 day ago the hortus horrei of corte eremo, mantua popcorn time. (presso la macchina... 2 days ago plant whatever brings you joy 8 reasons to sing through the stress 2 days ago clay and limestone wildflower wednesday: virginia bluebells 2 days ago a femme d'un certain age the magic of connection 4 days ago blomsterverkstad invase blomstöd * invase kukkatuki 4 days ago the patient gardener's weblog tread lightly 5 days ago greenbow haiku haven 6 days ago country living in the city frühling im garten 2 weeks ago welsh hills again running the chester 10k. is it even possible? 2 weeks ago fairegarden worth the wait 3 weeks ago mysecretgarden garden memories from last fall 3 weeks ago tara dillard simple landscapes & how they do so much for us 4 weeks ago chelsea flower show blog making a poinsettia flower again 4 weeks ago 5th and state want to get away? 5 weeks ago plant talk moving to read & watch 1 month ago parisienne farmgirl january planting guide by zone 1 month ago noel's garden blog this blog has moved ! 2 months ago urban gardens horticultural therapy cultivates healing and hope for seniors 2 months ago lantliv i norregård adventsrunda 11-16...:)) 3 months ago anna truelsen 50 shades of grey. 1 year ago me and alice soon new workspace 1 year ago ewa in the garden volunteering day at fdds, warsaw, poland 1 year ago art of gardening moving announcement! new link to visit! 1 year ago made in persbo segla i kroatien, del 2 1 year ago vita verandan en titt in i matrummet... 2 years ago poland in pictures... monastery accomodation 9 years ago *pepper hot* cayenne vs scotch bonnet 10 years ago grow orchids dendrobium 10 years ago show 5 show all my vegetable garden vegetable garden plan 2010 trending now 15 ideas of diy pea trellis how to build trellises for peas - do you also have such question? i will be constructing pea trellis this week from materials having at hand... 24 beautiful photos of edible landscape ideas - hand picked! edible landscape ideas today is about beautiful, full of life kitchen garden s. many authors of this beautiful pictures, different approach... santolina - cotton lavender - pruning i prune back my santolina every spring in march. first picture shows it before pruning. without pruning it would get leggy and ugly. prunin... cute vegetable garden ideas these vegetable garden ideas , presented at malvern gardening show are cute, funny, perfect for small space and easy to adapt. potat... volunteering day at fdds, warsaw, poland in june the design was completed. and now, in october, which is earlier than anybody expected, we are starting the implementation phase. and... 14 ideas for bean poles - inspirational monday this is what usually happens, when you do something for the first time - collect ideas 'how to'. i am growing beans for the first t... 22 pictures of english vegetable garden touring other gardens inspires me doing new things in our own garden. as the spring is just around the corner, i’ve decided to share with yo... colorful perennials - new garden design i am very happy to show you today the colorful perennials garden located in poland that i have designed 3 years ago. you see it in almost a... more flowers - more fun! propagate hydrangea hydrangea loves water - it roots even if you just stick the piece directly to water. you can do it too, because now is the time to propagate... authentic pierogi recipe - polish christmas cooking i dedicate this pierogi recipe to my twitter friends, who inspired me to make this post, after they have learned yesterday what i am going t... categories algarve art autumn autumn flowers awards before and after best reading birds blogging cats chemtrails containers correcting mistakes decoration drought tolerant ecology evergreens garden bloggers' bloom day garden bloggers' muse day garden design garden tours gardens in england gbbd'09 general green design ground covers hardscaping health hedge herbs hydrangea indoor garden inspirational monday inspirations ivy japanese garden meme my country my garden nature nature in the city nurseries/breeders orchids organic ornamental plants our plants perennials portugal pots proffessional photography propagating pruning recipes recommended plants reviewing blogs/websites reviewing books roses secret life of plants seed network seeds shows and exibitions shrubs social spring spring flowers summer summer flowers sustainability transplanting trees trellis/other supports vegetable/fruits garden vintage water garden wildlife winter regresja duchowa znienacka45.pl projektowanie ogrodów be the first to know enter your email address: blog catalog blog directory privacy policy linkwithin total pageviews attention: content of this blog is copyrighted! bad karma will catch you one day. simple theme. powered by blogger.