home contact me get the books select page ex nihilo by waiter | mar 9, 2020 | uncategorized | 2 comments a little while ago, a friend of mine said, “you know what death is like?” “not having died,” i said. “no.” “nothing.” “come again?’ “it’ll just be one big nothing,” he said. “do you remember what you were like before you were born?” “nope.” “death will be just like that. going back to that nothing.” “so,” i said, sitting back in my chair. “you believe you came from nothing?” “yes.” “no previous lives? you weren’t the king of france or his scullery maid?” “reincarnation? that’s a fairy tale.” “well,” i said. “lots of people would disagree with you, but let’s stick with the ‘from nothing part.'” “uh oh,” my friend said. “i’ve got you started.” “can you make something out of nothing?” “i…..” “you cannot,” i continued. “it’s impossible. the gulf beyond something and nothing is an infinite qualitative difference. to be fair, even ‘nothing’ is something. but you’re talking about a nothing that we can’t even comprehend. no thing.” “are you going to talk about god now?” “not at all,” i said. “but if you were, as you say, nothing before you were born and, since the difference between nothing and something is an unbridgeable gap, then anything that emerges from that abyss, void, or whatever you want to call it, is different from nothing on an infinite qualitative level. so, even if all that remains of you after the universe has cooled to an soup of elementary particles a zillion years from now is the forgotten fact that you were once here – that tiny sliver of something would still be infinitely greater than the nothing from which you say you emerged.” “what the fuck are you talking about?” “logic’s a bitch, my friend. if you came from nothing then it’s impossible for you to ever be nothing again.” “you’re very strange.” “so is making something out of nothing.” i said. “but we’re here anyway.” 2 comments mysterioso on march 9, 2020 at 8:18 am for some reason i’m imagining this being delivered over a beer with a cigar used for emphasis! reply kaleberg on march 9, 2020 at 11:28 pm “if you came from nothing then it’s impossible for you to ever be nothing again.” that’s the part i never got. once you allow something from nothing, there is no reason not to allow something to nothing. i suppose it’s a matter of faith that it can only work in one direction. reply submit a comment cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. get the books archives 2020 march 2019 december november september august may april march february 2018 december november october july june may march january 2017 november october september july may april march february 2016 october september june may april 2015 october september august 2014 december november october april february january 2013 december october august july march 2012 december october september august july june may april march february january 2011 december october september august july june may april february january 2010 december november october august july june may april march february january 2009 november october september august july june may april march february january 2008 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2007 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2006 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2005 december november october september august july june may april march february january 2004 december november october september april facebook twitter © 2010-2020 steve dublianca share this https://www.facebook.com/waiter.rant twitter share this share this post with your friends! https://www.facebook.com/waiter.rant twitter