home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog 10 reasons why you should workout today april 2, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment debating on weather or not you should go to the gym today? maybe one or more of these reasons will help persuade you to hit the gym. here are 10 reasons why you should workout today. #1) you will look better naked. #2) you won't be the first to die in the hunger games. #3) your pants will fit. #4) you will become more self confident. #5) … [read more...] top 30 health and fitness books february 7, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment ( tip: hover over this image to pin to pinterest to save for future reference! ) i am always looking for a good book to dive into. lately, i've been ditching my typical nicholas sparks type books and picking up reads that actually educate me about overall health, nutrition and fitness. although it's fun to feel the romance and shed a tear through books where i imagine … [read more...] 30 day plank challenge february 3, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment try my new 30 day plank challenge. don't think you can plank for this long? you'd be surprised what a 30 day challenge can do to strengthen your core! start today and put your core to the test! 30 day plan challenge hint: hover over this plank challenge image to pin to pinterest to save or remember for later! how to plank place the forearms on the ground with the elbows … [read more...] 3 week cancun cut october 28, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i can't believe i'll be in cancun in 3 weeks!!! i have been soooo busy with our rental home renovation that i haven't been able to focus enough on my diet & workouts. it finally sunk in this morning that i need to stay focused for the next three weeks or i will be mad at myself when i slip into my bikini in 3 weeks. i'm going to cancun with a group of 6 of my close … [read more...] erin’s fitness and nutrition tips october 11, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment remember to set small goals for yourself on the way to your big goal. it helps to keep things in perspective and makes you feel like you've accomplished something. if you have a goal to lose 20 lbs, break it up into weekly goals. try to lose 1-2 lbs a week and before you know it, you'll be at your goal weight! 20 lbs seems unobtainable..but 1-2 lbs is within your weekly … [read more...] puma punisher workout september 3, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i hope everyone had a fabulous labor day weekend! it was nice to have a long weekend where we weren't traveling the whole time. it was a nice change. on saturday morning, i got to try out my new puma shoes that they sent me to try. they are called puma formlite which are reasonably priced at about $60! the coolest part of these shoes is their weight. they are by far the … [read more...] a weekend on the water, pull ups & my vma review august 26, 2013 by erin weiss 4 comments a weekend on the water, pull ups & my vma review happy monday!! i hope you had a great weekend. my weekend was spent mostly outside having some fun in the sun! we spent friday doing some real estate stuff and getting into a bidding war on an investment property that i'm trying to purchase. we should find out today if i got it or not. gotta love real estate...always … [read more...] my california trip meal plan & jacked in a box august 5, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments this past friday we went to ruth's chris steakhouse. that place is soooo good but will empty your pockets for sure! i ended up getting the salmon and it was really good. i don't normally order fish at restaurants but i thought i'd give it a try and so glad i did! when i got home friday i had a couple items waiting on me! i love when my supplements get delivered!!! i … [read more...] my new favorite running shoes july 19, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i'm so so so excited i've found some shoes that i absolutely love! sorry for so many pictures, but these are my new babies! i recently partnered up with finish line and got to try out some new nike running shoes. my package came in the mail this week. i'm not sure what i like more now...the blue tiffany's box or the orange nike box!! seriously i get so excited … [read more...] new clutch sneakers june 25, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment there's nothing better than coming home from work to a big box waiting for you outside your house, right?! especially when you see it's from puma and they want you to try out their latest kicks! they are the bioweb elite high-rise shoes. i got them in the curacao/jasmine color. super cute! gosh i'm such a workout shoe fanatic. i love new "sneakers" as i call … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in