skip to content menu about matt travel jobs start a travel blog contact say hello work with me menu start here blog destinations africa asia caribbean central america europe north america middle east polar regions travel tips travel resources best travel tips find cheap flights book cheap hotels travel safety tips my travel gear photography take better photos best travel cameras gopro accessories my photo gear nomadic living saving money best travel jobs paid to travel menu start here blog destinations africa asia caribbean central america europe north america middle east polar regions travel tips travel resources best travel tips find cheap flights book cheap hotels travel safety tips my travel gear photography take better photos best travel cameras gopro accessories my photo gear nomadic living saving money best travel jobs paid to travel explore the world with me hi! i'm matt -- adventure travel photographer, professional blogger, and digital nomad. join me as i share wild stories, beautiful images, and useful travel tips with you from around the world! click here to start exploring → latest blog posts getting lost on burano: italy’s rainbow island using budget airlines to score cheap flight deals 25 wild photos that will convince you to visit antarctica read more blog posts → popular articles blessed by a monk: my magic sak yant tattoo over 40 people watched in silence as a monk repeatedly penetrated my flesh like a sewing machine. my 50 best travel tips after 9 years traveling after years traveling the world, here are my best travel tips to help you save money & become an expert traveler. secrets of the ring road: iceland’s epic road trip iceland’s ring road was one of my favorite travel experiences! check out my free 7-10 day itinerary and travel guide. adventure travel stories camping on an erupting volcano in guatemala guatemala’s volcano santiaguito erupts with an explosion every few hours. we decided to camp on it. untamed wilderness: hiking the darien gap pain suddenly shot through my arm, awakening me in the middle of the night. soon followed by no feeling at all. trekking the arctic circle trail in greenland standing alone on greenland’s barren ice cap in complete silence, you’re hit with the reality of how remote this place is. backpacking travel tips how to find the cheapest flights (complete guide) one of the most expensive parts of travel is airfare. here’s how to get great deals! how to save money on accommodation learn how to book the cheapest hotels possible to save money on your vacation. packing guide: the best travel gear (what i pack for a trip) take a peek inside my backpack to learn what travel gear i pack on my trips. travel photography guides 17 travel photography tips to improve your photos beginner travel photography tips to shoot stunning images of your adventures. best compact travel camera models for any budget looking to upgrade your camera? here are my top travel camera picks for 2020. how to photograph the northern lights learn settings & techniques for capturing the mysterious aurora borealis! digital nomad resources saving money for travel (you don’t need to be rich) before i left to travel the world, i needed to save money first. you can do it too! 40 best travel jobs to make money traveling the world real-life examples of people living the dream — working while traveling. this is how i get paid to travel (yes, really) everyone keeps asking me how i make money from this travel blog. here’s how. reader favorites 38 ways to make extra money driving iceland’s golden circle how to travel to cuba guide hitchhiking across america 75 inspirational travel quotes my isle of skye road trip is instagram ruining travel? fun things to do in the yucatan how to pick a travel backpack travel videos from around the world follow my adventures on youtube! backpacking afghanistan one of my most memorable travel experiences so far was hiking over 100 miles through the mountains of afghanistan with locals. check out the video, and don’t forget to subscribe to my channel for more travel adventures! continue reading → join 150,000+ followers as seen on: useful travel resources how to travel the world picking a travel backpack saving money for travel follow on social media adventure travel photography how to improve your photos recommended travel cameras what's in my camera bag travel blog best of resources policy page contact © 2020 expert vagabond | adventure travel & photography blog scroll back to top