coursekit is now lore.what’s the story? a bite-sized companion to brain pickings by maria popova. twitter: @explorer art & designscience & technologyculture & societyhistory & literaturecreativity & innovationmedia & communicationthought & opinionabout latest science coronavirus science and technology health excellent primer on the chemistry behind the common sense of washing your hands – why it’s your best defense against coronavirus, how that defense actually works biochemically, and why you aren’t really safe unless you do it for at least 20 seconds. bonus points if you do it with minimal stress – here is pioneering immunologist esther sternberg on the science of how stress impacts your susceptibility to disease. (ht kottke) 78 notes 3-20-2020 tweet rebecca hey botany trees history and literature women's history art and design illustration the spirit of the woods – the world’s first encyclopedia of trees, composed and gorgeously illustrated by poet and painter rebecca hey, in an era when hardly any women were published authors. 116 notes 2-15-2020 tweet art science women in science botany vintage illustration natural history art and design science and technology history natural history illustration history and literature elizabeth blackwell is 29. the year is 1736. her husband is in debtor’s prison and she has a small child to feed at home. what does she do? she turns desperation into inspiration, learning botany and painting an exquisite encyclopedia of medicinal plants: a curious herbal. 128 notes 2-1-2020 tweet space astrophotography astronomy science and technology science self-taught astrophotographer andrew mccarthy has created this arrestingly vivid portrait of the moon from more than 100,000 images he took through his telescope from his backyard in sacramento – a glorious redemption of the original meaning of amateur, “lover of.” how far we’ve come from the first surviving photograph of the moon, to say nothing of the world’s first map of the moon and galileo’s reality-radicalizing perspectival drawings, in the mere blink of cosmic time since. via kottke 177 notes 1-27-2020 tweet wilson bentley science art science and technology photography photomicroscopy wilson bentley’s snowflakes – 140 years ago this month, a teenage farm-boy with a sensitive curiosity about the world, a microscope, a camera, and a fiercely supportive mother awakened humanity to the art and science of snow with his pioneering photomicroscopy of ice crystals. 154 notes 1-26-2020 tweet mary oliver quote lit creativity the most regretful people on earth are those who felt the call to creative work, who felt their own creative power restive and uprising, and gave to it neither power nor time. mary oliver died a year ago today, having given her gift both power and time. drink in her abiding wisdom on creativity and life. 454 notes 1-17-2020 tweet best of 2019 lit history and literature favorite books of 2019 – from from patti smith’s gloriously uncategorizable masterpiece to the bittersweet posthumous collection of toni morrison’s speeches, by way of poet ross gay’s manifesto for delight as an act of resistance, robert macfarlane’s journey into the hidden universe beneath our feet, rebecca solnit’s empowered retelling of cinderella, and other treasures at the crossroads of existential truth and elemental beauty. 72 notes 12-22-2019 tweet kazumasa nagai illustration graphic design posters mid-century design vintage posters art and design japan japanese advertising gorgeous vintage posters of animals by the japanese graphic designer, illustrator, and printmaker kazumasa nagai. 104 notes 12-12-2019 tweet paul sougy art and design science and technology sciecne scientific illustration mid-century design illustration nature animals french artist paul sougy’s stunning mid-century scientific diagrams of plants, animals, and the human body, forgotten for decades, newly salvaged from dusty vintage textbooks and obscure french government archives. 123 notes 12-1-2019 tweet mariahadessa ekere tallie ashleigh corrin children's books diversity culture and society art and design history and literature lit illustration layla’s happiness – a serenade to the many meanings of happiness, its quiet everyday sources, and delight as a daily practice, from poet mariahadessa ekere tallie and artist ashleigh corrin. 56 notes 11-21-2019 tweet zadie smith writing lit culture and society history and literature thought and opinion interviews amwriting when i’m reading i consider it an activity as difficult as writing… it’s a challenge to your whole self. i love writing that is respectful of the human capacity to understand. wonderful interview with zadie smith. couple with smith’s 10 rules of writing (most of which apply to reading and to life itself), then see beloved writers’ letters to children about why we read. 364 notes 11-17-2019 tweet walt whitman lia halloran quote art and design art cyanotype painting poetry “every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you,” walt whitman wrote in one of his profoundest verses, in a golden age of science and social change, yet an era at least as divisive as ours. this stunning cyanotype painting by artist lia halloran, celebrating whitman’s immortal words, is available as a print with 100% of proceeds benefiting the endeavor to build nyc’s first public observatory – an ultimate invitation to unforget our shared humanity under the dome of the cosmic perspective. more here. 116 notes 10-19-2019 tweet edgar allan poe harry clarke art deco art nouveau illustartion book art black and white art and design art prints beautiful and terrifying century-old illustrations for edgar allan poe’s tales of mystery and imagination by the irish stained glass and book artist harry clarke, whose work influenced the art nouveau, art deco, and french symbolism movements. available as beautiful and terrifying prints. 77 notes 10-16-2019 tweet cephalopod science science and technology octopus do octopuses dream of electric eels? we already know that the octopus is earth’s most alien consciousness. now comes this mesmerizing evidence that octopuses experience one of the most complex functions of consciousness: dreaming. really, how can a conscious human eat a fellow dreamer? (ht open culture) 110 notes 10-16-2019 tweet conservation monarch butterfly art and design environment culture and society infographics graffiti enormous mural by san francisco art studio ink dwell spotlights the bittersweet beauty of the monarch butterfly and the urgency of its protection. complement with environmental movement pioneer rachel carson’s stunning existential letter about the monarchs. 54 notes 10-3-2019 tweet 12345next page → featured a maria popova project. twitter: @explorerrandom post typography graphik franklin gothic adriane areas of knowledgeart & designscience & technologyculture & societyhistory & literaturecreativity & innovationmedia & communicationthought & opinion