home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us apps for pc facetime for pc free download for windows or mac apps for pc facetime for pc free download for windows or mac by shashank jain - october 21, 2016 337 0 - advertisment - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp facetime for pc free download for windows or mac apple known for its innovation and style, and a very famous you already known i.e. “facetime”. facetime is an aaple’s product which provides user to do video calling, thus it takes communication to a new level . iphone 4 and all the above models of iphone comes preinstalled with this video conferencing app. if you are using any of these apple’s iphone model like iphone4, iphone5 or macbook pro, ipad, imac, and mac mini, you can use facetime absolutely free . the all you need to use this app is a 3g, 4g or a wi-fi connection and you can enjoy your conversations with your family and friends via video conferencing. features of facetime apple’s facetime app provides video calling feature that make your iphone 4s and above models phone calls experience into a different class . it provides you with lots of amazing features that makes you to do uninterrupted and easy to go calling. these features are:- facetime provides you with a superior audio sound quality then on a regular cell phone connection. it also provides you with a feature of blocking facetime calls. so if you don’t want to receive any call on factime you can do it . you can also mute the audio so that the caller can only see you but wont be able to hear you. you can even switch between your front and rear camera at any time just by tapping on the icon at the bottom right corner of your iphone screen. facetime for pc free download for windows or mac facetime is officially available only for iphone, ipad and imac. since we all are not apple users, it seems impossible for us to use this amazing app. but just for all the non- apple users we brings out a way by which you can easily use this great app on your windows pc or laptop and that too absolutely free. ipadian is all what you need to use facetime on your windows pc for free. . ipadian is an ios emulator which helps you to use many of the apple’s app on your windows pc. here are the simple steps to download facetime for your windows pc for free:- download and run ipadian on your windows pc then search facetime in the app store provided by ipadian. then download facetime by using ipadian. wait until the facetime is installed on your pc. now you can use facetime and can enjoy video conferencing with friend and family. this is how you can easily download facetime for your windows pc and laptop. - advertisement - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp previous articlebest fake tattoo apps for iphone next article5 best ios app development courses for iphone and ipad shashank jain shashank jain, founder of iphone-s, a young and energetic entrepreneur has always been fond of technology. his liking for technology made him go for engineering in computers. during his studies, he learned & worked on different computer languages & os including hbcd, linux, etc. he also has a keen interest in ethical hacking. leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. must read chatroulette apps for android & ios anshi - modified date: march 19, 2020 0 full guide on satisfactory save game location anshi - modified date: march 18, 2020 0 how to use cxbx emulator – way to play on cxbx ashish lavania - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 how cryptocurrency works: a complete guide by hedgespots anshi - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? shashank jain - modified date: march 7, 2020 0 - advertisement - sponsored postshashank jain - march 7, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? it’s perfectly normal to think that apple doesn’t make mistakes when it comes to technology. however, they do. when first... read more uncategorizedshashank jain - march 5, 2020 0 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use marketing strategy if you are not using email marketing to promote your brand, products or services, you are missing out on... read more must read how to guideshashank jain - november 8, 2019 0 how to wrap headphones nothing is more regrettable than reaching out for your... read more uncategorizedshashank jain - january 22, 2015 0 iphone is disabled i phone is disabled? somebody on the phone has... read more trending tech 8 amazing yoga and meditation apps for iphone users shashank jain - december 13, 2017 0 top 4 pocket wod free app for ipad/ iphone – crossfit app shashank jain - january 7, 2017 0 top 6 nature & wildlife mobile apps shashank jain - november 20, 2016 0 - advertisement - you might also likerelated recommended to you apps best screen mirroring app the need for android or ios users... shashank jain - september 5, 2019 0 read more apps for pc roblox: the favourite online game of all time adding a gem to the world of gaming, roblox... shashank jain - december 11, 2017 0 read more apps for pc how to play ios games on pc how to play ios games on pc ios games are... shashank jain - september 19, 2016 1 read more apps how to run ios apps on pc or play ios games on pc hоw tо run ios aррѕ on pc оr plау... shashank jain - october 9, 2015 0 read more © copyright 2018 - iphone-s.com factspress