login cheezburger search latest posts fail blog channels fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation fail blog login submit fail blog "it's not stupid if it works" moments fail blog guy falls asleep on train, tries to evade fare, conductor isn't fooled fail blog spelling so bad it's creative fail blog favorite doordash employee promised extra compensation, never gets it share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email this doordash employee was trying to figure out what happened to the extra compensation they were promised. it would appear that the promise was as good as empty air, nothingness, cause it never came around to be fulfilled. nope. no extra compensation. instead, a frustrating, grueling process experienced by the hard-working doordash employee to try and get the money that they'd been assured would be provided. view list repost - vote - recaption comments customer service frustrating employee doordash fail ridiculous texting stupid fail blog favorite bored dude offers to fight strangers over text share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email everyone deals with social distancing differently. this guy, brad, texted strangers offering to get in a fight. here are a few of them. view list repost - vote - recaption comments text fight lol quarantine insults dumb funny stupid fail blog favorite pastor lies, steals, cheats on wife with multiple women, gets found out share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email pastor bob was out there selling the people on practicing certain parts of faith, while he was running around mistreating his wife in all kinds of ways. it sounds like he was even dipping into donation funds to finance his dates with various women, while he had a wife the whole time. insane. pastor bob ultimately got what was coming his way. view list repost - vote - recaption comments religion revenge pastor church reddit fail blog favorite unrealistic moments in movies that annoy people share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email people are describing those frustratingly unrealistic things they see in movies that just defy the way real life works. you know, things like holding intense conversation (and eye contact) with someone, while driving down a busy highway, and somehow not causing a massive accident. or, if you were in an accident, how the cars actually don't just explode, but do all kinds of crazy stuff upon impact. view list repost - vote - recaption comments unrealistic movies askreddit ridiculous cinema funny fail blog favorite tumblr thread is rich with cake baking tips share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email this brief and helpful tumblr thread breaks out the tips on how to bake that next glorious cake. cake baking tricks are fun. view list repost - vote - recaption comments tumblr baking helpful information knowledge fail blog favorite joe buck turns home videos into play-by-play practice share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email joe buck decided to try and keep his skills as an announcer sharp and honed in, by providing play-by-play commentary for people that submitted home videos of everyday activities. the results are pretty dang entertaining. view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter announcer joe buck social media ridiculous home video funny fail blog favorite bride gets left at altar, expects sister to delay her own wedding share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email so, one bride gets left at the altar, and as a result the bride expects her sister to delay her own wedding that she had planned. apparently, the parents pile in on the whole thing at one point, and a whole guilt trip is fueled as a result. should one wedding be delayed like that just because another, totally separate wedding didn't go as planned? people seem to think, absolutely no delay is necessary. they are independent events. view list repost - vote - recaption comments bride cringe wedding ridiculous family reaction reddit fail blog favorite supercut of celebrities saying stevie wonder can see share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via lotan repost - vote - recaption this is one of those lighter conspiracy theories where the more you think about it, the more you want to believe it. here are multiple high profile celebrities sharing their beliefs that stevie wonder's lifelong blindness is all an act. comments musician stevie wonder wtf conspiracy blind comedians celeb video fail blog favorite eight fastest growing vegetables to grow at home share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via self sufficient me repost - vote - recaption mark is out here hooking it up with great advice on how to grow eight different kinds of vegetables at home, in a hurry. he manages to crack some jokes throughout the informational presentation as well. love it. comments cool vegetables fruits-veggies awesome video fail blog favorite dad takes revenge on snow plow with steel mailbox share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email dad took just the kind of revenge that warms our hearts. it was clever and successful, and the look on the snow plow driver's face must've been one of pure stress and wonder. beautiful stuff. view list repost - vote - recaption comments satisfying revenge clever awesome funny win fail blog favorite life pro tips to get a leg up on the game share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email everyone could always use a pro tip, here and there, to get a little ahead in life. these life pro tips might just end up helping folks navigate this chaotic existence with a little grace and flexibility. view list repost - vote - recaption comments life helpful life hacks knowledge reddit fail blog favorite son teaching mom to text is wholesome gold share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email in these technological times we can forget that it can be harder for the older generations to navigate the ins and outs of how to work the technology. so, in those moments where you might find yourself in contact with someone who is just trying to keep up with the times, it's nice to help out. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww wholesome adorable cute parenting texting mom fail blog favorite group chat accidentally texts foreign stranger for a year share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it only dawned on this group that they might have the wrong number when their friend mentioned that he felt lonely and wondered why no one texted him. turns out they'd been texting a foulmouthed total stranger the whole time. for a wholesome mistake that went on way too long, here's a story of a woman who mistakenly thought a random office was a dog daycare for months. view list repost - vote - recaption comments text lol group ridiculous story russian mistake funny stupid fail blog favorite absurd individuals who believe they're utter geniuses share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email when the internet becomes a place for people to share their true feelings about things, you start to get a whole lot of people who truly feel that they're unmatched geniuses whose thoughts are so vast and comprehensive that that they might as well have telekinetic powers. maybe they're right, maybe they are truly blessed with supreme knowledge. and they use that knowledge to mostly make snide youtube comments and smear the internet with their bragging. view list repost - vote - recaption comments cringe smart bragging lol ego jerks ridiculous genius stupid fail blog favorite "edgiest" things people did that backfired share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email people are looking back on the "edgiest" things they did in attempts to be cool, which ultimately resulted in them realizing later on down the road, that said actions were anything but cool. whether it was punching trees to try and impress a crush, or maybe naruto running through the halls; it'd seem the harder people tried to be cool, the further away they fell from being just that. view list repost - vote - recaption comments throwback fail nostalgia askreddit edgy ridiculous fail blog favorite dad pulls ultimate prank on daughter from afar share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ah, yes. a lovely game of pinch and punch between a loving dad and his daughter, ends up making for quite the funny and feel good story. it sounds like dad manages to pull off the ultimate power move prank from afar, and leaves his daughter in a state of blissful acceptance that he did it. pretty awesome. well done, dad. view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter awesome parenting dad social media funny win upvoted 685 dad takes revenge on snow plow with steel mailbox 259 guy on twitter traces electric origins of triscuit 215 dad pulls ultimate prank on daughter from afar 213 tumblr list: grandpa brings home bizarre animals 189 short tumblr thread on places that jokingly "don't exist" hot today 1 absurd individuals who believe they're utter geniuses 2 bored dude offers to fight strangers over text 3 dad takes revenge on snow plow with steel mailbox 4 dad pulls ultimate prank on daughter from afar 5 group chat accidentally texts foreign stranger for a year follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter