about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews category: family & parenting the gigantic autism billboard: autism wisdom in a few words updated mar 27, 2020 neve spicer what if you had to distill a lifetime of lived experience with autism into a single pearl of wisdom? here's what people wanted to share with the world. read more » 51 benefits of arts education for kids mar 13, 2020 neve spicer arts education in schools is currently teetering on a precipice. overwhelmingly, parents feel that the arts play a vital role in their children’s education. and yet, at the very … read more » internet safety 101: the ultimate guide for parents mar 13, 2020 neve spicer this is the ultimate, easy-to-digest guide to keeping your family safe online. "internet safety 101" is simple to follow and full of quick actionable tips to help you protect … read more » the ultimate guide to parenting styles (good, bad and ugly) mar 13, 2020 neve spicer which is your style? weigh up 14 common parenting approaches by examining their characteristics, effects, and the science behind them. read more » how to stop cyberbullying updated mar 11, 2020 neve while technology is incredible in a myriad of ways, it has given bullies a whole new platform to showcase their innate desire to hurt other people. bullies have been … read more » how to safely clean your baby carrier or wrap updated mar 11, 2020 neve yes - you can ruin an expensive baby carrier or wrap if you don't take care; however, safely cleaning them is easy by following a few simple precautions. read more » the ultimate guide to potty training updated nov 23, 2018 neve spicer quickly find the right potty training method for you and your little one. in this guide, you'll find three that are gentle and effective. read more » 51 best gifts for husband in 2020 (a very picky list) updated mar 12, 2020 neve spicer searching for an inspired gift for your husband? we’ve got you covered with 51 original gift ideas for men of all flavors. you spend countless hours together, share a … read more » posts navigation 1 2 next we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest