home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog events family health food and drink prevnext family fruit picking on the farm with fruit shoot -#itsmything leyla preston tue 24th oct 2017 7shares share tweet pin fruit shoot invited the motherhood diaries clan (that’s me and my two boys) to home cottage farm in iver heath for a day of fresh fruit picking, saying hi to the free-range sheep, chickens and a turkey, and enjoying a lovely picnic of delicious fruit-based snacks with lots of fruit shoot drinks to wash down all the fun. the aim of the event was to show consumers that fruit shoot is made from real fruit like the ones we picked at the farm and that these healthy juice alternatives are also made with no added sugar, so they make great additions to children’s lunchboxes.. the boys and i have only experienced blackberry picking in our back garden and down the road from our house, but this event had us picking delicious plums, apples and raspberries too! we even got to visit holly bell from the great british bake off (she’s so lovely!). so here is a rundown of how our day went. table of contents fruit picking in abundance! first stop, blackberry fields the raspberry fields onto the apple fields lunchtime after some hard work on the fields fruit picking in abundance! we all congregated at the entrance of the farm, where i got the chance to introduce myself to other bloggers’ families and catch up with those whom i’d met at previous events. we were then guided to the start of our fruit picking journey, which was situated in a maze of beautiful farm fields that looked even more inviting on a very lovely sunny day. aron was quite intrigued by the farm’s large tractor beside the entrance while aidan analysed the signs that led us to the blackberries and raspberries. while we were waiting for the go ahead to start, aron spotted an empty picnic area which housed some bottles of fruit shoot, which we were given the go ahead to taste test while we were briefed on the day’s events. the boys were getting restless, but, thankfully, we were given the go ahead to start our fruit picking journey. first stop, blackberry fields we walked around the blackberry fields, where blackberries were growing in abundance. armed with a punnet basket each, the boys and i set off to try and fill one of the punnets with blackberries before we headed over to the raspberry fields. the raspberry fields next stop was the raspberry fields and i was amazed at how many raspberries were available for the picking! adjacent to the raspberry fields lived the livestock, which aron enjoyed watching for a good while, while aidan got to work, picking as many raspberries as he could find. onto the apple fields we headed down the road to the apple field, where the boys decided to take a quick break from fruit picking and have a fruit shoot break (as well as having a go at taking some lovely photos of the apples with the photographer’s camera) the boys eat on average about 5 to 6 apples a day (no exaggeration!). apples are their favourite snack between meals, so, no doubt, it was the apple fields that got them really working hard to get as many apples as they could find to fill the two plastic carrier bags full to the brim. lunchtime after some hard work on the fields the boys and i were quite exhausted at this point and feeling quite ravenous from picking all the fruit, but not eating them! so, we were very happy to hear that lunch was ready. so, we left the plum fields (after only managing to pick a few) and headed over to a full blanket of people, food, cake and, of course, fruit shoot in abundance. but, not without both boys having to go in the portaloo, which was quite an experience because you had to pump the water with your foot while washing the boys’ hands and holding the door open at the same time! at the very beginning of our fruit picking journey, i had been immersed in a conversation with holly bell, who was really lovely. we got to talking about having 3 kids and school life, as well as not having enough time to work on our businesses, but still loving every minute of being a mum. finally, however, we got to see holly in action where she had baked some really gorgeous healthy cakes with the fruits from the field that were so delicious the boys almost finished them at the picnic! i apologised to my fellow bloggers for my boys’ monstrous appetites. they always seem to make me look as if i starve them, even though, on this particular occasion, they had already had a full breakfast and snacks before they arrived at the farm! spiced apple and blackcurrant cupcakes – recipes from a normal mum orange and raisin fat free tea loaf – recipes from a normal mum banana and raspberry no refined sugar flapjacks – recipes from a normal mum recipe for holly’s delicious fruit on the farm cakes can be found here. we filled our bellies with holly’s delicious cakes and other lovely sandwiches, kindly put out by the iris pr team and washed everything down with the lovely fruit shoot bottles. our cab was scheduled to arrive in a few minutes’ time, so we quickly said our goodbyes to holly, the iris team and our fellow bloggers, but not before we managed to get in a quick shot of the boys and i with our amazing goody bags, full of baking utensils and grow-your-own fruit pots to encourage the family to bake with fruit at home. we got home at around 6pm and we were all physically exhausted after a truly amazing day of picking fruit on the farm. the boys and i still talk about the event and we can’t wait until the spring season, when we get to plant our strawberry seeds in time for the strawberry season. we have been making a lot of fruit biscuits, smoothies and cakes using the boys’ silicone baking set and the fruit that i’ve frozen from the farm so we can continue to enjoy them long after the event. thank you so much to fruit shoot, iris pr team, holly bell and, of course, home cottage farm for a truly fabulous and educational day of fruit picking and fun. we will never forget the fun we had! to find out more about fruit shoot’s ingredients, you can visit their website here for more information. also, you can follow fruit shoot on facebook here. *motherhood diaries was invited to the fruit shoot fruit on the farm event where we were kindly allowed to take home the fruit we picked for free. all opinions in this post are 100% our own.* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:apple pickingblackberry pickingfruit on the farmfruit pickingfruit shootholly bellhome cottage farmraspberry picking about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 7shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok