menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies family family 15 reasons why your ‘cool aunt’ is the ultimate best friend rania naim 30 amazing memories only sisters get to make mélanie berliet 28 childhood memories you can only make if you grew up with siblings katie mather 14 things every aunt wants their niece to know koty neelis my friend’s suicide left me to uncover a hideous secret about his family maggie meyers 16 things we forget to thank our dads for kate bailey the 31 best things about going home for the holidays ella ceron latest family articles the summer of swim lindsay brown “ after defeat, it was our reawakening. how to survive your stressful family gathering this holiday season arihat east “ i think those like me with anxiety know that there is no way in hell we could survive a room full of people talking too much. the dark side of the autism community eileen lamb “ raising an autistic child is lonely enough as it is. let’s put down the weapons, and raise autism awareness and acceptance together. on living in a fractured family elisabeth heffernan “ why did you have to go, my dearest father? this is why you need your own community, even in a relationship lexi herrick “ because the reality is this: if any community is entirely contingent on your relationship with one other person, it can be temporary. this is the beauty in finding your chosen family marceline brown “ life is always changing– ending and beginning again every moment. life wouldn’t be the same without a great sister to share it with penelope almonte “ you are not only my sibling, you are my best friend. you are my confidante, my cushion, my motivator. this is what having ‘daddy issues’ means because it isn’t about being a hot mess holly riordan “ you make sure that someone is worth the trouble before allowing yourself to grow attached to them, because you realize most people would only be a waste of your time. 35 things i want my daughter’s dad to do that mine never did leena sanders “ introduces her to her inner grace. the strongest girls have shitty fathers holly riordan “ you learn from a young age that you should never rely on a man to bring you peace, stability, and happiness. you decide that you are going to take care of yourself. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.