skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources family 5 money lessons my son learned from our latest car-buying adventure december 16, 2019 by miranda marquit leave a comment when you think of teaching money lessons for teens, you probably don't think of dragging them through the car-buying process. but that's exactly what i did. i'm not talking about taking the boy … continue reading about 5 money lessons my son learned from our latest car-buying adventure on doing things we don’t want to do june 8, 2015 by miranda marquit 4 comments sometimes we find ourselves doing things we don't want to do. as children, we have the idea that once we're older we can do anything we want. but this isn't always the case. there are plenty of … continue reading about on doing things we don’t want to do on how much i hate reading class at school february 22, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment since i can remember, i've loved reading. because my love of reading is so well known, and because i strongly advocate literacy and education, it comes as a surprise to many that i hate "reading" as … continue reading about on how much i hate reading class at school scout camp and my lady parts june 13, 2014 by miranda marquit 10 comments the lds church has an interesting relationship with the boy scouts of america. in the united states, the church is such a big part of scouting that the bsa doesn't want to anger church leadership and … continue reading about scout camp and my lady parts on the inconveniences of feeling crappy may 13, 2014 by miranda marquit leave a comment i've been sick for something like two weeks. not the oh-my-gosh-i'm-going-to-die type of sick all the time. instead, it's been a long slow slog of misery, punctuated by oh-my-gosh-i-wish-i-could-die … continue reading about on the inconveniences of feeling crappy coming to grips with my son’s common core math lessons april 22, 2014 by miranda marquit 6 comments when my son was in first grade, i began noticing that some of his math lessons were different to the math lessons i had growing up. for the next couple of years, this frustrated me. i didn't always … continue reading about coming to grips with my son’s common core math lessons go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 6 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com