project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure diy party ideas fancy nancy party ideas share pin budget friendly fancy nancy party ideas i am excited to share that i have partnered up with alyssa hunter from alyssa hunter photography to share some fun party ideas that she has photographed. today, she is sharing photos from a 3rd birthday tea party and i thought i’d share some fancy nancy party ideas as well. tea party decorations & table setting let’s start with the decorations. i love the simplicity of this party. it’s clean and elegant and perfect for an almost 3-year-old. clear vases and milk glasses were used for bouquets of daisies. for a toddler’s tea party, you want the look a beautiful china, however it must be kid-friendly, of course. pictured here paper plates and cups and napkins from oriental trading’s (affiliate link) truly scrumptious tea party line. what to serve the one thing that mixes very well with toddlers and tea parties is finger food! here are some ideas on what to serve at a fancy nancy tea party for little ones: strawberry and cream cheese sandwiches cut in triangles tuna or chicken salad on bruschetta fruits and veggies cheese blocks crackers, pita bread, dip a variety of nuts (beware of guests with allergies) and dates tea cookies, meringue cookies, shortbread, alphabet cookies sparkling apple cider, hot apple cider, juice, water …and don’t forget about the cake! fancy nancy crafts and party favors the mom of this party said “as far as diy tips, i would say that we tried to be economical by incorporating our favors into the party by having dress-up hats the girls could decorate …they served as a craft activity, a themed decor look, and a guest take home gift.” princess and me party the fancy nancy you see here is from the princess & me parties, a character events and parties company is los angeles. you can hire fancy nancy to tell stories, play games and do scavenger hunts, do face paint or makeup, and sing! you can check out more of alyssa’s work on her blog or on instagram. leave a comment join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « diy wood slice bunnies next post: diy seashell balloon art » reader interactions leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more