guide accessibility media news community events forums chat buy now guide accessibility media news community events forums chat buy now a strategic fighting game for everyone play now featured character spotlight videos are back! competitive season 3 is live fantasy strike at frosty faustings xii in wheeling, il sirlin games on the steam lunar new year sale more news >> streamlining the fighting genre if you’re new to fighting games we’ve streamlined the genre to get you to the fun decision-making part as soon as possible. all moves are just a single button press, combos are easy, move lists are so concise that they fit on one screen. we’ve cut out the chaff to focus on the heart of the genre so we can show you why fighting games are awesome. if you’re a fighting game veteran fantasy strike is difficult to be good at, but not because of combos or execution: because making the right decisions is hard. this game is designed by an ex-street fighter dev and hardcore player for play in tournaments. it’s got mixups, rushdown, zoning, frame traps, grapplers seeming too powerful on day 1, and other fighting game fundamentals you’re used to. more about "accessibility"... characters be a ninja, dragon, panda, fish, or even a human fantasy strike is a world of fantasy and martial arts. its diverse characters use wind, fire, ghosts, gambling, paint, and even time itself as their weapons. find a character whose personality and playstyle you connect with. try a disciplined zoner or a cocky one if you prefer, a manic-depressive rushdown character, a gentle grappler, gambling panda, a passive resistance-style fish, and more. online play best-in-class networking technology we are not aware of better networking tech in any other fighting game. sorry if that sounds jerky, but seriously it's that good. the wrong way: input delay the standard, bad way of doing online play in fighting games is to use input delay. when you press a button, nothing happens on your screen right away. the signal goes to your opponent, then bounces back to you before you see anything happen. it feels like you’re playing underwater. the right way: rollback method fantasy strike uses ggpo’s rollback-style networking. when you press a button, the result happens instantly on your screen, just like during offline play. occasionally your opponent’s character will pop back into sync, but it’s rare. mostly you get smooth, responsive gameplay, even across continents. cross-platform play? yes, here’s our faq about it. a different ui approach to for online play playing with a friend online to play a friend, go to your friends list and click on the crossed swords by any name to challenge them. that’s it. when they accept, you and your friend are put into the same gameflow as if you were sitting next to each other in the same room. watching a friend online to watch your friend play, go to your friends list and click on the eyeball by any name. that’s it. you'll continue watching your friend automatically, as they play different opponents online, even in different game modes. this is so simple and great, but we’ve never seen it done this way in another fighting game. ranked play rank up through the leagues in a series of tournaments. get a fresh start every 3 months. the tournament experience play in automated 8-person tournaments. tournament-style matchmaking is generally more exciting and has more ups and downs than standard "always 50-50 win rate" matchmaking. our point system is as simple as our lifebars: you get 1, 2, or 3 stars for winning, depending on how far you are in the tournament. team battle format choose a team of 3 characters, play a best-3-out-of-5 match. each game, play a new randomly chosen matchup. you'll go through all your characters before repeating. must win with all 3 of your characters to win the match! there's lots of variety in this mode. you'll play an even spread of many matchups, rather than usually playing the most unfair matchups as often happens in counter-pick systems. single player arcade mode fight a series of ai opponents. includes beautifully illustrated, voiced story intros and endings. four survival modes a rapid-fire series of opponents with no loading times between them. they get stronger as you go. daily challenge an endless survival mode that you can only play once per day. see how you do compared everyone else that day. boss rush our biggest and most awesome single-player mode. draft a deck of powerups as you play though a series of 8, increasingly crazy ai bosses. roguelike, in that if you lose, you start over and can start building a new deck. tutorial this short, 5-minute tutorial teaches you all the basics. do some fun exercises that flow continuously with no loading times. spotlight videos every character has their own spotlight video, a narrated tour by game director david sirlin. each video goes though that character's moves and what their general gameplan and strategy is about. controls all moves are done with a single button press so you can play with any controller. yomi counters the power of doing nothing. the yomi counter is an exciting new feature for the fighting game genre. throws are powerful in fantasy strike, but you can always punish a throw that you know is coming ...by simply letting go of your controls! when you let go, you're vulnerable to any attack, but you'll automatically reverse an incoming throw with your yomi counter. you'll throw them with a special animation, deal damage, and get full super meter too! (special throws and super throws can’t be yomi countered. you can jump out of those though.) opponent is doing inputs so they can be thrown opponent let go of the controls so they yomi counter you if you try to throw them subscribe sign up with your email address to receive occasional news and updates about fantasy strike. first name last name email address sign up thank you! back to top about careers terms tabletop games ©2016 sirlin games