sign up log in about faq terms of service privacy boing boing bbs community guidelines. contact @orenwolf or any moderator for assistance with any of these. be cool. don’t post or encourage insulting, bullying, victim-blaming, racist, sexist, violent, or homophobic remarks. do not make assumptions as to anyone’s mental state, race, gender, ethnicity, religious beliefs, group affiliation or sexual orientation without corroboration. stunt accounts and throwaways may live, but sock puppets, astroturfers and spammers will die. stay on topic. don’t hijack threads, repeat yourself, post walls of text, or generic talking points. constructive criticism is welcome. hostile, whining hand-wringers will be eaten. assume good faith and like the good. however, flag the bad, and avoid contentless comments. don’t post e-mail addresses, phone numbers, home addresses, url-shortened links that obscure the target, porn, or gore. we politely insist you do not post stuff you do not have the right to post. we have the right to delete an account or content at any time for any reason. remember to export your data right after making dodgy comments. enforcement may be lax or draconian as befits the whims of the entity. the rude will be eaten first. rules lawyering will fail. be sure to read our exciting terms of service and privacy policy. thanks for reading. there’s more at the complete community guidelines. last update: july 24, 2018. posts for context: general moderation topic meta this topic exists to discuss moderation actions (or requests for action). a few notes to help keep this topic useful: 1 - moderators are not obliged to post all actions here, but we will make a good-faith attempt to communicate where appropriate. 2 - to keep this topic manageable, we may remove messages, or split certain discussions into new topics, where necessary. please refer to the faq and community guidelines for reference. thanks. [image] changes to mod policy re: ignore feature meta with discourse’s ignore feature now being complete*, there will be some small changes to how our moderation policy will be enforced. the bbs is a public forum. users who follow our moderation policy are permitted to post in any topic or reply to anyone. should you not wish to see a specific users posts, replies, or notifications, the new ignore feature will allow you to ignore a user for a period of up to four months at a time. do not ask users to “not respond” to you. if you do not wish to re… moderation policy change: unfounded assumptions meta note: these changes are now live in our community guidelines. because we’ve had a spate of these issues recently, effective immediately: posts that make assumptions about anyone’s mental state, race, gender, ethnicity, religious beliefs, group affiliation or sexual orientation without it being explicitly stated somewhere (either in a post or other verifiable source) will be considered inappropriate. we as mods do not have the capacity to vet such statements. if you are going to label someon… home categories faq/guidelines terms of service privacy policy powered by discourse, best viewed with javascript enabled