skip to content about the farmingfriends website was set up at the end of 2006 and started as a diary of daily life on the farm but has grown into an online magazine and forum community packed with information, resources and products relating to farming, keeping livestock, food and nature. if you are a farmer, smallholder, animal enthusiast, parent, child or anyone interested in animals and the farming lifestyle, then the farming friends website and forum is for you. farming friends meet the animals and harvest the information without getting your hands dirty! menu about cookie policy privacy contact us site map ebooks world egg day 2019 october 8, 2019october 11, 2019 by admin it’s world egg day today so we are starting the day here at farmingfriends.com with an egg for breakfast. world egg day was first established in 1996 and was done to raise awareness of the benefits of eggs and their importance in human nutrition. over the years we have been lucky enough to sample hen, … read more world egg day 2019 categories cookery tags cookery, cooking, eggs sunrise on the farm october 8, 2019october 8, 2019 by admin the hubby was up very early on monday and managed to capture a beautiful sunrise. you can just see the tops of the houses of the village silhouetted in the first photograph and the shapes of the trees looks fabulous. we are very lucky to live on our family farm and see such stunning views … read more sunrise on the farm categories diary tags countryside, diary, farm life, nature red admiral butterfly september 13, 2019september 13, 2019 by admin we have seen lots of the red admiral butterflies in our orchard in the last few weeks (august/september 2019). this post was originally published on (4th august 2007) and updated on (13th september 2019). latin name: vanessa atalanta description: the red admiral is a brightly coloured butterfly with red bands and white spots on a black … read more red admiral butterfly categories butterflies, insects tags butterflies, butterfly, insects running a farm during winter and the use of lpg july 11, 2019 by admin running a farm during winter and the use of lpg running any kind of successful farming business requires a significant use of energy. tending to livestock and their needs, heating crop stores, machine usage, all – for example – are extremely energy-intensive processes. energy use can be even more critical during the autumn and winter … read more running a farm during winter and the use of lpg categories farming should you separate broody hen from other hens & cockerel? december 7, 2017december 23, 2017 by sara should you separate a broody hen from other hens and cockerels? this is a tricky one as there are arguments for and against. if you separate a broody hen from the rest of the flock you are safe guarding the safety of the hen and chicks when they hatch as they are not going to … read more should you separate broody hen from other hens & cockerel? categories hens, incubating & hatching tags broody hen, chicks, cockerel, hatching, hens what does a pipped egg mean? december 7, 2017december 18, 2017 by admin i am often asked what does a pipped egg means. a pipped egg is when the chick is beginning to hatch and a crack forms in the egg shell where the chick is breaking through the egg membrane and shell. the chick pecks at the inside of the egg and the shell cracks and then … read more what does a pipped egg mean? categories incubating & hatching tags chicks, eggs, hatching, pipping how to incubate hen eggs in an incubator without an automatic egg turner december 7, 2017december 11, 2017 by admin here is a set of instructions for how to incubate hen eggs in an incubator without an automatic egg turner. collect 6 to 12 fertile hen eggs. store with the pointed end of egg facing down. plug in the incubator the day before adding eggs to make sure it is working. add water to the … read more how to incubate hen eggs in an incubator without an automatic egg turner categories hens, incubating & hatching tags eggs, hatching, hen, hen eggs, hens, incubating what age do cockerels start crowing december 7, 2017december 7, 2017 by admin the age a cockerel will first crow can vary, but they can start crowing at about four or five months of age, usually this coincides with them beginning to look like a mature cockerel, when their tail feathers grow and their crown becomes red and prominent. as i said the age can vary and we … read more what age do cockerels start crowing categories hens tags chickens, cockerels, hens gardening resources may 20, 2017may 20, 2017 by admin for all you budding gardeners out there we have some resources you may find useful. how to grow herbs for cooking ebook at a cost of only £4.00 the how to grow herbs for cooking ebook will provide you with information about: how to grow herbs, sizes of herbs, growing herbs … read more gardening resources categories gardening, herbs, homegrown vegetables tags ebooks, gardening, grow cards, growing cards, herbs, topveg, vegetables helping quail chicks march 30, 2017november 15, 2016 by sara do you have any advice on helping quail chicks hatch out? there is a lot of debate about whether you should help a quail chick or any chick out of their shell. i believe it is up to the individual to assess their own situation and decide if they are going to intervene or not. we … read more helping quail chicks categories quail tags hatching, hatching quail eggs, quail, quail chicks post navigation older posts 1 2 … 162 next → pages about cookie policy privacy contact us ebooks site map search farming friends website search for: categories categories select category arable crops awards birds books butterflies cats cattle competition entries cookery cooking diary diary extracts ducks farm machinery farming farming friends farming stories farming year flowers food fruit game birds gardening geese general farm animals goats guest appearance farming stories guinea fowl guinea pig hens herbs homegrown vegetables incubating & hatching insects media most popular articles news pigs plants poultry products for sale puzzles quail recipes resources reviews self sufficiency sheep the farmhouse trees turkeys uncategorized vegetables wild birds wild flowers wildlife google search amazon ebooks for sale incubating, hatching & raising guinea fowl keets how to grow herbs for cooking ebook for sale only £4.00 subscribe via email enter your email address: delivered by feedburner meta log in entries feed comments feed wordpress.org guinea fowl keets ebook © 2020 farming friends • powered by generatepress this site uses cookies: find out more.okay, thanks