/ mark frauenfelder / 10:53 am fri mar 27, 2020 fascinating video about tardigrades(water bears) follow us twitter / facebook / rss enjoy the microscopy in this video ab0ut adorable tardigrades (aka water bears or moss piglets). one cool fact about these hardy 500 micron critters: each of their eyes is a single photoreceptive cell. image: youtube share / tweet / 1 comments tardigrades get the boing boing newsletter it's fun to watch tardigrades squirm around on twitch, adorably watch quick test! from atinyworld on www.twitch.tv what the world needs now are tardigrades, sweet tardigrades. ‘a tiny world’ is a fun little internet window into the microscope with julie laurin, who lives in ottowa, ontario. read the rest check out these awesomely creepy puppets of microbial creatures judith hope is a uk-based puppeteer who has created maneuverable art for theatre, festivals, parades, and more. read the rest tardigrades can live for decades under normal circumstances, tardigrades (previously) live a couple of years. but when they go into cryptobiosis in response to environmental adversity, they can wait it out for decades. mcinnes once defrosted a moss sample from a former experiment and found it contained live tardigrades. she deduced that the organisms had survived, frozen, for at least […] read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support