bustle fashion can coronavirus live on clothes? your fashion questions, answeredby mekita rivas prabal gurung & other insiders on coronavirus-fueled racism at fashion weekby andrea cheng tyra banks talks 'life-size's 20th anniversary & her lindsay lohan memoriesby marie lodi what stores are closing due to coronavirus? the list is growingby avery elizabeth matera can coronavirus live on clothes? your fashion questions, answeredby mekita rivas 7 spring outfit ideas you'll wear on repeat next seasonby avery elizabeth matera chanel just brought back these popular ‘90s throwback pantsby avery elizabeth matera dua lipa & anwar hadid's matching outfits are peak 'future nostalgia' just when you thought you’d already listened to all your favorite playlists 100 times over since the beginning of quarantine, dua lipa's future nostalgia is here to save the day with some fresh tracks for your earbuds. yes, the pop star just dropped…by mekita rivas 'making the cut' & more fashion content for your quarantine watch list there’s no rulebook for adjusting to life under quarantine. for some, it’s important to have structure and routine. these are the folks who are still updating their calendars, working out regularly, and getting dressed up every day (or, at least,…by mekita rivas do you dress like carole baskin from 'tiger king'? because same. just when you thought you'd run out of ways to entertain yourself during the quarantine, netflix drops tiger king: murder, mayhem and madness. the documentary chronicles the demise of zoo keeper joe exotic (real name joe maldonado-passage), a…by jessica andrews nordstrom is having a massive sale and these tops are just $15 although nordstrom's brick and mortar locations are closed nationwide for the next two weeks, shoppers can still score some serious deals online. nordstrom's sitewide sale launched march 18, offering 25% off just about everything — including…by mekita rivas why you won't hear tim gunn say "make it work" on his new fashion design show amazon's making the cut may share a lot of dna with project runway, but there's one thing tim gunn didn't carry over to the new design competition show: his iconic "make it work!" catchphrase. "we don't have a lot of 'make it work' moments on making…by kayla blanton some tim gunn-approved style advice on what to wear while working from home like much of the world, tim gunn is currently working from home to help prevent the spread of coronavirus. and his advice for wfh fashion is pretty simple: "do whatever it takes" to get through the day. for gunn, that means spending an excessive…by kayla blanton yes, heidi klum & tim gunn's new show is different from 'project runway' — here's how heidi klum and tim gunn's new amazon show, making the cut, has a lot in common with project runway. both are reality competition series in which designers compete for a large prize that can kickstart or significantly boost their existing careers.…by rebecca patton ganni's art competition will keep you entertained at home this week if you’ve lost track of which day of self-quarantine you’re on and could use a little creative motivation, ganni has got you covered. the ultra-cool danish brand recently launched a project called “home is where the heart is,” which encourages…by mekita rivas every time kate middleton & princess charlotte wore the perfect matching outfit much like any style-loving mother and daughter, kate middleton and princess charlotte wear matching outfits more often than not. and, while charlotte might not always be present for all her mother’s formal events, when she does step out, they tend…by avery elizabeth matera meghan markle’s go-to shoe brand is having a major 70% off sale meghan markle regularly steps out in a pair of heels from stuart weitzman, whether she's on the red carpet in london or petting horses in morocco. and she is in good company, as celebrities frequent the brand for their fill of kitten heel pumps,…by avery elizabeth matera surprise! lilly pulitzer is hosting a super rare sale with 30% off select items the lilly pulitzer sale will get you in the spring spirit, even if you're still stuck inside your home. the colorful brand is notorious for rarely offering discounts, save for their bi-annual after party sale that garners an actual online queue. but…by avery elizabeth matera the new digital fashion series everyone is watching during quarantine feeling creatively zapped these days? bottega veneta is offering up a solution for the uninspired. in response to the global coronavirus pandemic, the italian fashion house recently launched bottega residency, a digital platform where creatives aka…by mekita rivas the safest way to wash clothes during the coronavirus pandemic the coronavirus pandemic has shifted virtually every aspect of life, right down to the most mundane chore. while most people have been doing laundry for years, few are well-versed in the best practices for how to wash clothes during coronavirus, a…by mekita rivas meghan markle’s j.crew denim dress is finally back in stock—& on sale less than a week before the duchess of sussex leaves her official royal title behind, one brand made it just a little bit easier to channel her style. meghan markle’s j.crew denim shirtdress has officially been restocked. yes, the one that flew off…by avery elizabeth matera the princess diana way to wear cycling shorts diana, princess of wales’ legacy extends far beyond her style. but there's no denying that the fascination with lady diana’s wardrobe is still going strong. from the instagram account dedicated to “lady di’s sassiest post-divorce looks,” to the…by orla pentelow every fashion brand helping to fight coronavirus as the world struggles to cope with the coronavirus pandemic, the fashion industry is banding together to offer up support to those in need. from the smallest jewelry designers to the largest fast fashion retailers, brands are pledging to help…by avery elizabeth matera how lululemon is helping small business owners during coronavirus the coronavirus pandemic has affected virtually every corner of the economy, including and especially the retail world. industry leaders recently made a plea for federal bailout money to help keep it afloat in this period of economic anxiety.…by mekita rivas these best-selling h&m pants are on sale for $13 today the h&m sale is here, just in time to satisfy your urge to online shop during self-isolation. the beloved swedish retailer is currently running a sale with up to 60% off some of the best items of the season. what’s more, you get an additional 20%…by avery elizabeth matera 9 affordable pieces meghan markle loves to wear, starting at $40 whether she's on the red carpet or taking archie for a walk in his stroller, meghan markle's outfits are praised and recreated by people all over the world. the markle effect has been documented by shopping experts and fans alike, as any item that…by amy sciarretto and avery elizabeth matera 9 spring 2020 ring trends you're about to see everywhere if you're looking to update your wardrobe for the spring 2020 season, one of the smallest pieces might actually pack the strongest punch in terms of style. while jewelry is always a beloved outfit addition — whether you're wearing a bright white…by avery elizabeth matera newsentertainmentbeautyfashionlifestylebookshealthwomen's history monthspread the lovevideo about usadvertisetermsprivacydmcacontact uscoupons