fathom analytics fathom analytics fathom, simple analytics for bloggers & businesses new → my favourite digital privacy tools for 2020 stop scrolling through pages of reports and collecting gobs of personal data about your visitors, both of which you probably don’t need. fathom is a simple and private website analytics platform that lets you focus on what's important: your business. get started for freeview a live demo one screen, in real-time our analytics platform isn’t infinite pages of reports and screens—everything is available on a single, well designed screen. get what you need, then move on with your day. cookie notices not required we don’t collect personal or invasive data about your users, nor do we use cookies, meaning you don’t have to show pesky notices to users about cookie tracking. we’re gdpr compliant too. unlimited websites all plans come with the ability to have unlimited sites which share your total page view allowance for the month. so you can track all your client websites or weekend no-code ideas, from a single account. instantly ready for huge spikes our software is built to handle billions of page views, so huge traffic spikes are tracked easily and don’t ever slow down your site. our fair pricing model protects you from big bills for occasional overages. fathom has been featured on fast company, github, product hunt and hacker news for being a simple and easy-to-use alternative to google analytics i needed a tool that tells me how many visitors the site gets, what the most popular pages are, and who the top referrals are. i don’t like the idea of having more data points than i need. fathom does exactly that. seb noël, founder of alligator.io & paleo leap i switched to fathom because it’s an ethical analytics tool that i can trust with my data. the interface is beautifully simple to use: it shows me everything i want to know about my site's performance, and nothing i don’t! charli marie, designer & podcaster fathom is the perfect privacy-based analytics solution for us. we can provide the metrics that our clients need and reassure them that their customers' data isn't being shared with faceless companies. darren pinder, owner of vatu developers are pretty tech-savvy people, and these days very privacy-cautious–they understand how scripts follow you across the internet, that’s why we choose fathom, because they don’t do that. oskar krawczyk, cofounder of jsfiddle today, so many big tech corps are abusing our privacy. this is why i use fathom. they’re an analytics company that respects users. it’s mindful technology i can trust. justin jackson, cofounder of transistor fathom simplifies the task of analyzing site performance while simultaneously respecting my visitors' privacy. it also happens to be a joy to use. jon henshaw, founder of coywolf fathom gives me all the data i’ll ever need in one quick glance. plus, it feels good to be on the rebellious side of the privacy battle. jack mcdade, founder of statamic not only is their product and support awesome, but they've shown how much they actually care about their privacy-focused mission. miguel piedrafita, founder of sitesauce we host a weekly podcast, above board, discussing privacy and business in the digital age subscribe via itunes, overcast or just grab the rss feed. fathom is a simple yet powerful website analytics platform. it shows you what you need to know about your website on a single screen, without tracking or storing your visitors’ personal information. pricing starts at $14/month for 100,000 page views and you can cancel anytime. check out our pricing plans and get started with a free trial. fathom analytics we’ve counted 500,000,000+ page views for our customers' websites so far. © copyright 2020 conva ventures inc. product features pricing demo free trial data policy company about blog support affiliates twitter resources login terms privacy changelog podcast