home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » arts and craft » faux blue bird eggs and nest faux blue bird eggs and nest february 24, 2020 brittany bailey 18 comments 330shares facebook twitter pinterest can you think of anything more spring-like than a nest full of blue eggs? today i want to show you how to make faux blue speckled bird eggs and a nest! faux blue bird eggs and nest spring has arrived in north carolina and i want to dance and sing and tiptoe through the tulips. now that valentine’s day has come and gone, it is the perfect time to start decorating for easter! a nest of blue speckled bird eggs makes a beautiful centerpiece! mother robin sure does create beautiful blue eggs, but we’d never think of disturbing those precious eggs. instead, i’ll show you how to turn regular chicken eggs… …into a beautiful nest of blue speckled eggs to decorate for easter or spring. materials: (i’ve included affiliate links for your convenience. i earn a small percentage from a purchase using these links. there is no additional cost to you. you can read more about affiliate links here.) eggs (5-6) egg carton rubber gloves bowl old toothbrush acrylic paint: (at least have white, black and robin’s egg blue) paint brush paper bag paper plate pasta maker, paper shredder or scissors plastic drop cloth hammer nail instructions: it’s time to get messy. put down a drop cloth or tarp to cover your work area (and beyond.) first, i’ll show you a magic trick! learn how to remove the white and yolk out of eggs without breaking the shell. rest an egg inside the empty carton. gently tap a nail into the top of your egg. turn the egg upside down and put another hole into the other side. typically you’ll need one hole slightly larger. pucker up and blow through the smaller hole until the egg white and yolk drain out the larger bottom hole. (of course, you’ll probably want to save the eggs for omelets or scrambled eggs.) once you have emptied your eggs, clean them off. then close your egg carton and flip it upside down to create a raised support for your eggs. gather your blue, black, and white acrylic paints. paint the egg a robin’s egg blue color and allow them to dry. put on rubber gloves. pour a small amount of black acrylic paint onto a paper plate. add a little water to create a runny consistency. dip the toothbrush into the paint mixture. aim the toothbrush at the eggs and stroke your finger along the bristles to spatter black dots all over the eggs. allow the black speckles to dry and repeat the process using the white paint. while the eggs are drying, pull out your pasta maker. (am i the only one who never uses my pasta maker for making pasta?) cut the paper bag into sections wide enough to fit into the pasta maker. feed the paper bag through the pasta maker to shred it. (you can shred the bag with a paper shredder or scissors if you don’t have a pasta maker.) arrange the shreds into a nest form in a bowl, urn, or basket. set your faux blue bird eggs into the nest and admire your beautiful spring décor! this centerpiece can be left out until you are tired of looking at it. then store the eggs in the carton and bring them out again next year. have a great week! i hope the weather is warming up where you are! pin for later! 330shares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: accessories, arts and craft, birdhouse, blue, centerpieces, crafts, decor, decorating, holiday decorating, home decor, paintbrushes, painting comments jordan says march 17, 2015 at 9:46 am this is a gorgeous diy! i had no idea you could use a pasta maker for paper like that. i’ll have to try it out. how long do the eggshells last like that, or are they safe if all the yolk is cleaned out? reply brittany bailey says march 19, 2015 at 3:23 pm jordan, yes, it dries out and you can keep it forever. reply alyssa says march 17, 2015 at 11:39 am super cute! i love the look of that! reply debbie says march 17, 2015 at 1:11 pm so cute! thanks for sharing. reply tj says march 17, 2015 at 8:48 pm there is a much easier way to blow out eggs! i put a piece of tape over one end of the egg and drill a small hole with a new bit. hold the egg with the hole over the bowl, not towards the ceiling. use a syringe and needle (16 or 18 gauge from the local farm store) to blow air into the hole. the egg will be squeezed out the hole into the bowl. much easier than using your mouth! i wrote a blog post about how i do it back in 2011 🙂 reply brittany bailey says march 19, 2015 at 3:23 pm i’ll have to try that method next time! thanks. reply karen says march 18, 2015 at 1:09 am what color and brand are the robins egg blue paint? so beautiful. thank you. reply brittany bailey says march 19, 2015 at 3:22 pm karen, i wish i knew. it was an oops paint from valspar. reply colleen taylor says march 18, 2015 at 11:15 pm this is so pretty & i’m happy your spring is here. yes, i have a pasta maker too but never thought of using it to cut paper. what a great idea on it all. reply pete vasquez says march 22, 2015 at 2:06 am i love and enjoy reading the tutorials, very precise and explained thoroughly, thank-you. reply awesome! says march 22, 2015 at 11:55 pm my partner is also a handy-woman. in fact she does all the little fixes around the house. i get teased by my friends but i think they are just jealous 🙂 reply charlotte farley says march 25, 2015 at 7:07 pm i never thought of a pasta maker. i think it is because i don’t make my own pasta and cooking is not my cup of tea. i could use our paper shredder. reply paula says march 30, 2015 at 4:34 pm i love these eggs! i have been looking for some great bluebird eggs and these are a beautiful solution. thanks so much for your creativity 🙂 reply easter lover says august 16, 2015 at 8:08 pm wow! such a simple and easy idea, can’t wait until next easter to do these! reply peter says may 21, 2016 at 1:18 pm really awesome idea! i am totally impressed about your tricks and tips. waiting more in future.. reply leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok