home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 love, poetry, friendship, solitude, and lots of trees. read article favorite children’s books of 2019 an emotional intelligence primer in the form of a tender illustrated poem, an empowered retelling of cinderella, a meditation on what it means to have enough, a serenade to the art of listening as the gateway to self-understanding, and more. read article 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings more fluid reflections on keeping a solid center. read article rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us “some books are toolkits you take up to fix things, from the most practical to the most mysterious, from your house to your heart, or to make things, from cakes to ships. some books are wings… some books are medicine, bitter but clarifying.” read article in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times perspective to lift the blinders of our cultural moment. read article the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel “to be nobody-but-yourself — in a world which is doing its best, night and day, to make you everybody else — means to fight the hardest battle which any human being can fight.” read article timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers hemingway, didion, baldwin, fitzgerald, sontag, vonnegut, bradbury, morrison, orwell, le guin, woolf, and other titans of literature. read article the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease how your memories impact your immune system, why moving is one of the most stressful life-events, and what your parents have to do with your predisposition to ptsd. read article rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change “this is an extraordinary time full of vital, transformative movements that could not be foreseen. it’s also a nightmarish time. full engagement requires the ability to perceive both.” read article favorite books of 2019 from the hidden universe beneath our feet to delight as a countercultural force of courage and resistance, by way of patti smith, toni morrison, and the greek myths. read article how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe how many revolutions does the cog of culture make before a new truth about reality catches into gear? read article emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert “come with me this morning to the church within our hearts, where the bells are always ringing, and the preacher whose name is love — shall intercede for us!” read article fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives how to fine-tune the internal monologue that scores every aspect of our lives, from leadership to love. read article a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety “there are more things … likely to frighten us than there are to crush us; we suffer more often in imagination than in reality.” read article the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power “it is, in the deepest sense, a privilege as well as a duty to have the opportunity to speak out — to many thousands of people — on something so important.” read article a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility “we’ve got to be as clear-headed about human beings as possible, because we are still each other’s only hope.” read article mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate “attention without feeling … is only a report.” read article the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone “loneliness is difficult to confess; difficult too to categorise. like depression, a state with which it often intersects, it can run deep in the fabric of a person.” read article donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.