skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search fear porn my current critique of the media: it is (mostly) fear porn. what is fear porn? let me explain: fear porn audio we seem more motivated by fear than the desire for gain some thoughts. first thought: it seems that we humans are first primary motivated by fear. fear motivates us either to do things, or not to do certain things. second thought: why is the media so bad? the media is bad because of this: their money is earned via advertising. this means… anything which gets them more eyeballs, clicks, and views is good for their bottom-line. this means, they are incentivized to produce news stories which maximizes “engagement”. and what maximizes engagement? fear. why ‘fear porn’? why is the notion of ‘fear porn’ so apt? my thought: when we watch the news, it is very perverse. we are addicted to hearing and learning about the suffering of others, when in reality we cannot really ‘do anything about it’. for example, let us say you heard today that another 1,000 people died in spain. what can you actually do about it, besides perhaps pray for their families? what can you do to really help in terms of embodied reality? send a poor family money? shelter someone in your own home? my belief: to be ‘informed’ without action is cheap. i can’t help but look! porn is interesting. porn is something which interests us and fascinates us, and we cannot help but look. it is like a train wreck, or seeing a car accident on the freeway. we cannot help but look– it is wired into our dna. when we see something crazy, dangerous, insane, unusual, etc … we are hard-wired to inspect, observe, analyze, in order to prevent the same from happening to us. perhaps it is risk-mitigation in our genes. or in other words: we do not want to put ourselves into a situation where we can get seriously fucked (fucked meaning potential permanent disfigurement or death). and also, we do not desire harm on our family members, close friends, etc. empowering or disempowering? why i’m not afraid of death let us think: when you follow the news and media, does it encourage you or discourage you? is there any real practical benefit to the news you follow in your own personal life, or is it this perverse type of porn-entertainment-fear mongering? in praise of local news why i don’t follow the news what actually affects you? local news. so if you’re gonna follow any news, follow hyper-specific and hyper-local news. for example, your own city news, your own town news, etc. or better yet, don’t even follow any news. if you really need essential information, it will find you. for example, the us government (and my local state) is sending emergency text messages on really important news. everything else seems superfluous. news and the media is porn for the brain is porn bad? not necessarily. but let us think. next time you turn on the news, check twitter, facebook, the tv, newspaper, magazine, whatever — ask yourself: is this fear porn or not? eric henri neck strap (mark iii) shoot fearless > haptic industries creative tools to empower you. haptic industries on amazon > eric kim newsletter free motivation: email address eric kim workshops conquer your fears and meet new peers: april 25-26: chicago conquer composition workshop september 19-20: boston discover your unique voice in photography workshop (new date) november 4-8: havana, cuba travel street photography workshop experience – register intent join ars: the anti-social social media for photographers what do people really think about your photos? arsbeta.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta