squarespace logo account dashboard log out products create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain templates resources squarespace blog help guides webinars forum log in log out get started squarespace logo products templates resources log in account dashboard log out get started create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain squarespace blog → stories and solutions for the modern entrepreneur help guides → in-depth guides about the platform, our services, and how to get started webinars → free, online sessions where you’ll learn the basics and refine your squarespace skills forum → squarespace forum is an online community for squarespace users and professionals to discuss best practices and seek advice entrepreneur actor-turned-entrepreneur keanu reeves uses squarespace to build his motorcycle brand. entrepreneur actor-turned-entrepreneur keanu reeves uses squarespace to build his motorcycle brand. photographer photographer adrienne raquel uses squarespace to share her portfolio. photographer photographer adrienne raquel uses squarespace to share her portfolio. artist artist daniel arsham uses squarespace to showcase and sell his art online. artist artist daniel arsham uses squarespace to showcase and sell his art online. designer fashion designer sadie williams uses squarespace to make her collections stand out. designer fashion designer sadie williams uses squarespace to make her collections stand out. restaurant chef danny bowien uses squarespace to set a new standard for restaurant websites. restaurant chef danny bowien uses squarespace to set a new standard for restaurant websites. fashion see how hiraeth uses squarespace to make their collections stand out online. fashion see how hiraeth uses squarespace to make their collections stand out online. writer writer and activist fran tirado uses squarespace to share his work and his cause. writer writer and activist fran tirado uses squarespace to share his work and his cause. fashion accessories accessories label bembien uses a squarespace store to sell their bags online. fashion accessories accessories label bembien uses a squarespace store to sell their bags online. fashion john malkovich used squarespace to turn a side-passion into a thriving business. fashion john malkovich used squarespace to turn a side-passion into a thriving business. interior design interior designer tom delavan uses squarespace to beautifully showcase his projects. interior design interior designer tom delavan uses squarespace to beautifully showcase his projects. artist/designer artist craig ward uses squarespace to showcase and sell his work online. artist/designer artist craig ward uses squarespace to showcase and sell his work online. artist garbage enthusiast, oscar the grouch, blames the success of his trash collection on his squarespace site. watch the film squarespace logo squarespace logo artist oscar the grouch fashion designers hiraeth actor & co-founder of arch motorcycle keanu reeves photographer and art director adrienne raquel artist daniel arsham fashion designer sadie williams chef & co-founder of mission chinese food danny bowien writer, activist, and podcast host fran tirado fashion business owner yi-mei truxes actor & fashion designer john malkovich interior designer tom delavan graphic designer craig ward yi-mei is the founder of bembien, an ecommerce shop that offers woven bags created by global artisans. she chose squarespace to establish her business, sharing inspiration from around the world one sale at a time. visit bembien.com yi-mei truxes worked at vogue for six years before transitioning to being her own boss full time. yi-mei has everything she needs to run her business online with an ecommerce website. bembien’s woven bags, which encapsulate yi-mei’s vision of effortless style and intelligent beauty, are the focus of her online store. she has everything she needs to run her business online, from building a brand, merchandising products, managing inventory, and tracking sales. “every single sale goes through my squarespace site. it’s designed to drive customers through the purchase funnel.” yi-mei truxes it’s easy to manage bembien’s inventory with squarespace. as a business owner operating on her own, yi-mei relies on squarespace’s easy-to-use inventory management system to keep track of her stock levels. she uses the commerce app to manage shipments, fulfill orders, and receive stock level alerts on her mobile device. “when you go and do something yourself, you’re truly understanding if you have the skills to make it happen. bembien came at a time when i needed to do that for myself.” yi-mei truxes bembien’s bags are handwoven by artisans from around the world, with 10% of proceeds going to the nonprofit nest. she never misses a sale with around-the-clock support. online business ventures that offer worldwide shipping like bembien never sleep, so it’s important that squarespace doesn’t either. with squarespace’s top-on-the-line security, reliable infrastructure, and 24/7 customer service, yei-mei never misses a sale. “squarespace was a turnkey solution for me. i got my products online in 48 hours and felt confident that my site would drive sales.” yi-mei truxes see how yi-mei challenged herself by starting her own business. yi-mei built her business using squarespace. find your success today. get started read more stories see hiraeth's story fashion designers hiraeth see keanu's story actor & co-founder of arch motorcycle keanu reeves see adrienne's story photographer and art director adrienne raquel see daniel’s story artist daniel arsham see sadie's story fashion designer sadie williams see danny's story chef & co-founder of mission chinese food danny bowien see fran's story writer, activist, and podcast host fran tirado see yi-mei's story fashion business owner yi-mei truxes see john's story actor & fashion designer john malkovich see tom's story interior designer tom delavan see craig's story graphic designer craig ward see oscar the grouch's story artist oscar the grouch squarespace logo squarespace logo ↓ ↓ products ↓ website templates websites domains online stores point of sale extensions marketing tools email marketing scheduling stories professional email logo maker premium plan pricing feature list customers ↓ featured small businesses photographers bloggers artists restaurants musicians weddings students company ↓ about careers our brand press & media newsroom terms of service privacy policy contact us timeline imprint community ↓ help & support hire an expert forum webinars developer platform circle follow ↓ newsroom squarespace blog creative blog engineering blog service status instagram youtube linkedin facebook twitter