home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum features 274 posts have a read features porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" contains the phrase "a vortex of negative emotion". have a read features a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" a 'wide-ranging chat' covering sexuality, poodles and tape measures. have a read features a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" a chat with grace barker, ie one of the best popstars have a read features allie x interview: "i’m still on a journey to discover who i am." xtra, xtra, read all about it (?) have a read features ella eyre on ella eyre: "she’s making therapeutic cat music" ella's not here. so who's this on the phone? shambles. have a read features the top 45 singles of 2019 a list in reverse order, a playlist the proper order, and two and a half hours of top notch pop. have a read features the 2019 popjustice readers' poll: the results! here we go. have a read features the top 45 singles of 2018 hold tight! it's popjustice's annual countdown... have a read features "i'll stay true to myself for my entire career": zara larsson is back! here we fucking go have a read features meet blithe. she's an excellent new pop entity blithe is a new popstar who is, and there's no easy way to say this, extremely good welcome to popjustice, a glorified pop blog celebrating 21st century pop, the people who make it, and the people who make the people who make it. more outlook for march 26: you are advised to stay indoors until duageddon passes physical by dua lipa is the biggest song right now for what it's worth apple music's most streamed song is in your eyes - the weeknd the best popstar is currently dua lipa and that's that 4 years, 1 month, 30 days since the last rihanna album pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits lady gaga interview: "i looked to my past and my faith to find bravery in myself" an amazing charli xcx interview-slash-chat lou pearlman interview: "once in a while we get it wrong" further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled