squarespace logo account dashboard log out products create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain templates resources squarespace blog help guides webinars forum log in log out get started squarespace logo products templates resources log in account dashboard log out get started create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain squarespace blog → stories and solutions for the modern entrepreneur help guides → in-depth guides about the platform, our services, and how to get started webinars → free, online sessions where you’ll learn the basics and refine your squarespace skills forum → squarespace forum is an online community for squarespace users and professionals to discuss best practices and seek advice entrepreneur actor-turned-entrepreneur keanu reeves uses squarespace to build his motorcycle brand. entrepreneur actor-turned-entrepreneur keanu reeves uses squarespace to build his motorcycle brand. photographer photographer adrienne raquel uses squarespace to share her portfolio. photographer photographer adrienne raquel uses squarespace to share her portfolio. artist artist daniel arsham uses squarespace to showcase and sell his art online. artist artist daniel arsham uses squarespace to showcase and sell his art online. designer fashion designer sadie williams uses squarespace to make her collections stand out. designer fashion designer sadie williams uses squarespace to make her collections stand out. restaurant chef danny bowien uses squarespace to set a new standard for restaurant websites. restaurant chef danny bowien uses squarespace to set a new standard for restaurant websites. fashion see how hiraeth uses squarespace to make their collections stand out online. fashion see how hiraeth uses squarespace to make their collections stand out online. writer writer and activist fran tirado uses squarespace to share his work and his cause. writer writer and activist fran tirado uses squarespace to share his work and his cause. fashion accessories accessories label bembien uses a squarespace store to sell their bags online. fashion accessories accessories label bembien uses a squarespace store to sell their bags online. fashion john malkovich used squarespace to turn a side-passion into a thriving business. fashion john malkovich used squarespace to turn a side-passion into a thriving business. interior design interior designer tom delavan uses squarespace to beautifully showcase his projects. interior design interior designer tom delavan uses squarespace to beautifully showcase his projects. artist/designer artist craig ward uses squarespace to showcase and sell his work online. artist/designer artist craig ward uses squarespace to showcase and sell his work online. artist garbage enthusiast, oscar the grouch, blames the success of his trash collection on his squarespace site. watch the film squarespace logo squarespace logo artist oscar the grouch fashion designers hiraeth actor & co-founder of arch motorcycle keanu reeves photographer and art director adrienne raquel artist daniel arsham fashion designer sadie williams chef & co-founder of mission chinese food danny bowien writer, activist, and podcast host fran tirado fashion business owner yi-mei truxes actor & fashion designer john malkovich interior designer tom delavan graphic designer craig ward oscar the grouch has spent the last fifty years collecting heaps of trash,  but now some people are under the mistaken impression that his collections are art. they’re even buying his works to benefit the sesame workshop, the nonprofit behind sesame street. learn how squarespace turned a grouch into an accidental artist. oscar's site features limited edition trash cubes for sale, with the proceeds going to sesame workshop's educational initiatives. visit oscartrashart.com accepting donations raise money for a cause a donation block on the site allows visitors to directly support sesame workshop, the nonprofit behind sesame street. selling products product merchandising showcase your products at their absolute best. allow your visitors to browse your merchandise, add items to their cart, and check out simply and efficiently. q&a with oscar the grouch welcome, oscar the grouch. un-happy to be here. no more questions! this interview is over. we haven't asked any questions. well, then don't bother. umm, well, oscar, your trash art has become an overnight sensation. tell us about the day it was discovered. it was the worst day of my life! i was outside, sorting my trash, minding my own business, when some lady comes looking at my trash — calling it art! next thing i know, people won't stop bothering me. and i haven't been left alone since... did you always dream of becoming an artist? this is a dream? more like a nightmare. “i'm not an artist. i just want people to leave me and my trash alone.” oscar the grouch well, when i first saw your piece, muck with a side of yuck, it... ... ruined your day? no, it... ... looked as bad as it smells? no, no, it... ... smelled so bad you could taste it? it changed my life. do you have a favorite piece of trash? favorite piece? how can you have one favorite piece of trash? i love all trash. that's a grouch's motto. where do you turn for inspiration? is there a specific place in new york that inspires you? i don't know about inspiration, but i usually look at the bottom of a trash can for my trash. one time, i was just hanging around in my trash can — you know, minding my own business when — out of nowhere, a garbage truck came by and accidently dropped some of its trash right at my can! now that was a rotten day. heh-heh-heh! is there anything else you'd like to tell our readers? as a matter of fact, there is one last thing i'd like to say to everyone: scram! oscar's trash was shared with the world using squarespace. bring your vision to life. get started read more stories see hiraeth's story fashion designers hiraeth see keanu's story actor & co-founder of arch motorcycle keanu reeves see adrienne's story photographer and art director adrienne raquel see daniel’s story artist daniel arsham see sadie's story fashion designer sadie williams see danny's story chef & co-founder of mission chinese food danny bowien see fran's story writer, activist, and podcast host fran tirado see yi-mei's story fashion business owner yi-mei truxes see john's story actor & fashion designer john malkovich see tom's story interior designer tom delavan see craig's story graphic designer craig ward see oscar the grouch's story artist oscar the grouch squarespace logo squarespace logo ↓ ↓ products ↓ website templates websites domains online stores point of sale extensions marketing tools email marketing scheduling stories professional email logo maker premium plan pricing feature list customers ↓ featured small businesses photographers bloggers artists restaurants musicians weddings students company ↓ about careers our brand press & media newsroom terms of service privacy policy contact us timeline imprint community ↓ help & support hire an expert forum webinars developer platform circle follow ↓ newsroom squarespace blog creative blog engineering blog service status instagram youtube linkedin facebook twitter