squarespace logo account dashboard log out products create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain templates resources squarespace blog help guides webinars forum log in log out get started squarespace logo products templates resources log in account dashboard log out get started create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain squarespace blog → stories and solutions for the modern entrepreneur help guides → in-depth guides about the platform, our services, and how to get started webinars → free, online sessions where you’ll learn the basics and refine your squarespace skills forum → squarespace forum is an online community for squarespace users and professionals to discuss best practices and seek advice feature index behind the beautiful interface, squarespace is an incredibly rich publishing platform. here, you can find an exhaustive list of everything the squarespace platform can do. designs modern templates – each squarespace template design has been crafted by our world-class design team. our template designs are created with modern browsers and mobile devices in mind, and employ the latest html, css and javascript techniques. template switching – squarespace allows you to install multiple templates onto a single website and work on multiple designs at once. designed for any purpose – every squarespace template design supports all major content types, including pages, galleries, blogs, commerce, calendars, and more. style editor – with hundreds of customizable settings, including fonts, colors, and page configurations, every squarespace website can be made to look unique with just a few clicks. built-in mobile websites – every design automatically includes a unique mobile experience that matches the overall style of your website, so your content will look great on every device, every time. if desired, you can disable the mobile view from website manager. customizable content layouts – each design is built with customizable content areas that utilize squarespace’s layoutengine and content block system. pages, blog posts, footers, and sidebars can use all available content block types (video, audio, text, markdown, etc.) free typekit fonts – squarespace has partnered with typekit to provide every customer with a free selection of the highest quality fonts available on the web. use typekit fonts on your site without embedding font kits or paying additional fees. free google fonts – squarespace includes a curated set of fonts from google’s font library that can be used without having to insert embed codes. custom css – custom css can be applied to any template design through our built-in custom css editor, which also provides image and font file storage for css assets. example content restore – easily restore example content that came with your original template at any time. chart blocks – fully responsive and interactive line graphs, bar graphs, and pie graphs. video backgrounds – create a powerful visual experience. bring your website background to life with a video of your choice. starter layouts – build a page using pre-designed structures for specific purposes such as contact, about, listings and more. page elements are arranged to quickly create professional layouts and showcase your content. add or remove blocks to create a custom look. image manager drag-and-drop management – add and organize your images instantly. you can drag images directly from your desktop onto your browser window. responsive image loader – squarespace generates several scaled versions of each original image file uploaded. our image loader detects and selects the appropriate image size to load for every device and screen - including apple devices with retina displays. progressive image loading – squarespace ensures images on the top of a page load first, making your website faster and more responsive to visitors. cdn included – all images on squarespace are hosted with a global content delivery network (cdn) that reduce load times by utilizing hundreds of geographically distributed servers. getty images integration – squarespace customers can now access over 40 million images from getty images’ collection of high-quality creative and editorial photos, spanning breaking news and major events. images cost just each plus applicable taxes for web use. image focal point control – squarespace allows you to define the focal point of every image, ensuring the perfect crop for thumbnails or resized images. squarespace image editor – all images hosted on squarespace can be edited directly within your browser using squarespace's built-in image editor. crop, resize, rotate, adjust brightness and contrast, and much more. lightbox presentation – lightbox functionality is integrated into squarespace image blocks and galleries, allowing for beautiful full-browser-sized imagery. lightbox presentation of your images can be enabled with just one click. image seo – you have full control over image file names across the system. image metadata importing – squarespace can auto-fill the title, description, and tags for your images using the metadata you’ve already assigned to it in your photo management software. galleries gallery blocks – squarespace gallery blocks can be added anywhere on your website and offer hundreds of presentation variations, including slideshows, sliders, grid layouts, and more. integrated lightbox functionality allows for full-browser-sized imagery. display effects – each gallery offers multiple lightweight hover and transition effects. video in galleries – all gallery collections allow for mixed media presentations, including video and audio content in addition to images in the same gallery. audio collections audio collections – upload music directly to squarespace and easily share your albums with a beautiful, integrated player and album art display. squarespace recognizes the metadata of your audio files, so information like song title and artist name will be populated automatically. extensions finance extensions – third-party tools to help you reconcile sales transactions, file sales taxes, manage accounting, and streamline bookkeeping. inventory and product extensions – third-party tools to help you manage inventory, skus, and stock levels, and offer new products. marketing and sales extensions – third-party tools to help you promote products across selling channels and incentivize shoppers. shipping and fulfillment extensions – third-party tools to help you fulfill orders, ship products, manage returns, and keep customers informed with branded tracking and notifications. connected services socially connected – link accounts from facebook, twitter, google+, tumblr, dropbox, foursquare, instagram, flickr, 500px, youtube, vimeo, linkedin, dribbble, github, pinterest, soundcloud, spotify, bandsintown, behance, codepen, medium, meetup, rdio, twitch, vevo, vine, vsco, or yelp. you can also link to your itunes or google play store. dropbox file synchronization – drop collections of images in your dropbox account and synchronize these with squarespace in a single click. easy importing – pull in content from twitter, foursquare, instagram, 500px, or flickr directly into any page, sidebar, or footer of your site. content downloading – content from connected services is always downloaded into squarespace, meaning that your website is served from a single location, improving load times and allowing image content to take advantage of our built in gallery components. social links – easily display social network profile links, letting your visitors follow you on every major network. a variety of presentation styles help keep your site design consistent. simultaneous posting – squarespace can authenticate with your social profiles, letting you auto-post your content to twitter, facebook (personal or brand page), or tumblr. all post entries and images are optimized and tagged properly, so descriptions and titles will be correctly referenced. photo downloading / resizing – squarespace downloads images from any image-based social source (flickr, 500px, etc.), resizes them, and makes them available for use in any squarespace gallery style. facebook page integration – connect to facebook pages to easily push entire pages of content into the facebook platform. smart 3rd party service support – connect to google analytics, disqus, or typekit by providing your id directly – these services are completely integrated, and there is no coding required. amazon associate support – enter an amazon associate tag to generate revenue from your embedded amazon product blocks. opentable blocks – add an opentable block to any page, so visitors can make a reservation for your restaurant directly from your website. acuity scheduling – add online booking and scheduling without using complicated embed codes. the acuity block is a great addition to any appointment or class-based business website. zola for wedding websites – showcase items and dream experiences from a wedding registry, whether they’re home goods, trips, or cash for a down payment. offer guests a one stop shop for celebrating your big day. chownow ordering for restaurants – offer online ordering for delivery and pickup from chownow on your website. the menu slides in over your homepage without taking customers away from your site, letting your brand shine. layoutengine 2 custom wysiwyg editor – squarespace’s custom wysiwyg editing engine supports many content types and complex multi-column layouts. automatically responsive designs – all layoutengine pages are completely responsive and work on any mobile device. full-screen editing – this distraction-and-clutter-free editing mode lets you edit pages and blog entries using your full browser window. markdown mode – easily embed markdown on your site with a markdown block. automatic image scaling – image blocks automatically scale or fit images to ensure they always look right, irrespective of their placement within your content. double-click on an image to see an overlay of the full image itself, then drag that to ensure the best crop for your images. automatic text wrapping – to wrap text around an image, simply drag your image block over a text block. when the insert point turns into a box, drop the image block. gallery blocks – gallery blocks with many presentation styles let you easily embed slideshow strips or image grids. video blocks – present videos from youtube, vimeo and animoto while maintaining your website style using video blocks with custom image overlay. the image overlay improves load speed by waiting to embed video players until playback starts. audio blocks – with audio blocks that support podcasting, you can embed audio on your site, and tag the audio for itunes if the audio block is placed into a blog. archive blocks – with archive blocks, you can group and display up to 1,000 content items (top-level group name, title and date only) by year, month, author, category or tag to create a rich index page. map blocks – easily integrate google maps into your website with map blocks. amazon blocks – embed any item from amazon.com into your site. enter a custom amazon associate id so you can earn cash for referring buyers to items. product blocks – place your e-commerce products into blog entries, pages, and sidebars. menu blocks – easily create and update your business’ menu using the menu block. the menu is automatically formatted so you don’t need to worry about tweaking the text. index blocks – include tag clouds, author indexes, category indexes, or month indexes for your blog entries on your website. social blocks – all gallery presentation options are supported for social blocks. quote blocks – easily create drop quotes using quote blocks. code blocks – code blocks allow for custom code injection. button blocks – inject a call to action into any page with the button block. you can change the text, colors, and button shapes in the style editor. user data collection form blocks – the incredibly robust form block supports over 15 different data types, such as addresses, currency, emails, and text fields, making it easy to capture data from your site visitors. save to google docs, mailchimp or email – save form submissions to google docs, mailchimp, and/or email. google docs will be updated in real-time as submissions are entered. build a mailing list – build a mailing list on mailchimp using the form block integration. newsletter blocks – easily enable newsletter signups from your website with the newsletter block. site control site annotations – the squarespace interface and content now live side-by-side within the browser; handy annotations appear on everything that you might want to change on your squarespace site. style editor – control your site’s look and feel via our integrated visual style editor. direct editing – edit content directly from your website with built-in editing overlays. mobile information bar – visitors accessing your site from mobile devices will see a simple shortcut bar with your address, email, phone number, and business hours. announcement bar – use the announcement bar to highlight a major promotion or a significant piece of news on the homepage of your website. custom css – inject custom css into any of our designs. custom favicon – customize and control your website’s favicon. custom code – inject custom code in your site’s header or footer on a per-page basis, or under each blog entry on your site to enable custom sharing links. sitewide password – lock your entire website with a password while you are under construction. page-specific password – lock individual collections behind a password to create private areas on your site. custom lock screen – customize the page that is displayed to visitors whenever a website or page is password-protected. custom redirects – create custom 301 and 302 redirects directly from our interface to enable shortcuts or remap old content to new places. deleted collection recovery – recover deleted collections, accidental or otherwise, from the recycle bin with the click of a button. duplicate pages – easily duplicate a text page for testing purposes, or to speed up your website building process. multiple contributors multiple contributors – give contributors selective access to your site’s website manager, depending on their permissions. multiple access levels – access levels include administrator, content editor, billing, reporting, comment moderator, trusted commenter, and store manager. unified site logins – using a single login, contribute and manage multiple squarespace sites at once. cover pages single page solutions – the cover page builder, complete with 10 new templates of its own, can be added to any existing squarespace site and is perfect for creating quick landing pages to communicate a personal identity or promote a new product. template switching – squarespace allows you to switch your cover page templates as you see fit. clear call-to-action – every squarespace cover page can link to another page within your squarespace website, collect more information, or add visitors to a mailing list. grid gallery – grid background with customization options including orientation, image aspect ratio, number of images displayed, overlay filters, and more. available for select cover page layouts. blogging layoutengine based editing – as with all squarespace pages, all content block types (text, image, gallery, video, audio, etc.) are available for use within each blog entry. social sharing – the squarespace blogging platform supports a configurable sharing button, letting your visitors share content on facebook, twitter, google+, linkedin, stumbleupon, reddit, pinterest, and tumblr. workflow – you can set post entries in published, draft, scheduled, and needs review settings. markdown support – use the markdown block to compose posts using markdown. scheduled posts – entry scheduling lets you schedule entries to be published in the future. podcast support – squarespace offers complete podcasting support, with audio blocks that allow for itunes tagging as well as blog modules that support custom itunes channel tags. excerpt and source urls – save excerpts and source urls with each post. google author rank – google author rank is built into member profiles, increasing your search engine exposure and site indexing. rss syndication – blogs are syndicated via rss and fully integrated with readers such as flipboard, feedly, and others. rss is automatically embedded in every blog page for easy reader support. rss blocks – make it easy for visitors to add your feed to their newsreader by adding a subscribe button anywhere on your website. category/tag support – tag and category support provide two levels of categorization. external link configuration – mark posts as external links to configure how permalinks and titles work on a per-post basis. post display options – every item on a post is extremely flexible, and can be reordered or renamed to fit your site style. customizable urls – every blog post has a unique permalink with a properly labeled, clean url slug that can be customized. geo-tagging – save geographic location with each post. multiple author support – publish blog entries with multiple author attribution. simple likes – users can anonymously upvote content on your site by clicking the heart button at the footer of each post. commenting system complete commenting features – our completely integrated commenting system supports threaded comments, and all comments have individual like counts. comment moderation – you can set your comments to be sent to a moderation queue before they are shown live on your site. commenter authentication – commenters have avatars and can authenticate from multiple social networks to provide their identity. reader comments feedback – comments can be flagged by readers to identify spam or trolls. comments can be automatically moderated upon reaching a certain flag count. automatically disable comments – set automatic cut-off dates to disable entry commenting. anonymous comments – enable/disable anonymous commenters. comment sorting – comments can be sorted by date posted, most liked, and other criteria. community management – enable certain community members as trusted commenters or comment administrators. bulk comment management – perform bulk operations on your comments from your website manager. powerful abuse filters – our filters block abusive requests to our systems in real-time. these protections help defend your site from numerous web application vulnerability classes. simple disqus integration – though squarespace offers a proprietary commenting system, you can easily replace our commenting system on your website with disqus by simply adding your disqus id in your website manager. email campaigns email campaigns – stand out in any inbox with squarespace email campaigns. our all-in-one platform makes it easy to unify your brand voice—from your homepage to your emails. content integrations – import content from your website to draft emails in minutes, saving time and avoiding mistakes. your products, blog posts, social icons, logo, and mailing lists are only one click away. powerful editing tools – add an image to grab attention, link to relevant content, or use a button to drive clicks. try different color and style combinations to suit the content of your email. customizable layouts – with more than 30 starter layouts to choose from, you can announce a product, send an invitation, or share updates with your subscribers. organize and format content any way you want with customizable drag-and-drop sections. mobile editing – manage all of your email marketing in one centralized dashboard on any device. create a campaign, save drafts, reuse layouts, review performance metrics, and more from your desktop, phone, or tablet. mobile-optimized designs – reach your audience no matter where they are. all layouts are made with squarespace’s responsive designs, so your emails will look great whether they’re viewed on mobile or desktop. integrated analytics – refine your email strategy with real-time campaign and website analytics from one source. learn what content leads to higher engagement, tracking metrics from send to sale. mailing lists – get the right message to the right people. collect email addresses through your website and send subscribers the information they care about most with unique mailing lists. sender profiles – make your email stand out with a custom “from” field to ensure that each email’s message aligns with who it’s from. domains purchased from squarespace are already verified, so you can immediately start sending emails from the domain you own. commerce unlimited products – there is no limit to the number of products you can sell through squarespace. flexible product variants – use a unified inventory management interface with unlimited skus, multi-dimensional product variants (such as size and color), and sale prices. add images to each product variant so customers can see what different options look like. rich product descriptions – embed text, images, videos, audio, maps, and much more in your product descriptions. as with all squarespace pages, all content block types are available for use on your product page. templates optimized for commerce – set up your store with templates designed to help you sell, with image zoom on product images and quick view in product lists to give shoppers the best browsing experience. product merchandising – easily sort, organize, and manage your products with our drag-and-drop sorting tool, tags and categories, and visibility and scheduling settings. product quick view – allow customers to see product details from the list view and navigate to other products in the collection. feature available in thorne, hyde, brine, and marta templates. product image zoom – set a zoom factor and select whether zoom occurs on click or hover. feature available in thorne, hyde, brine, and marta templates. limited availability labels – increase urgency and encourage conversion by letting customers know the current inventory level of any product with a limited availability label. as a merchant, you can customize how, when, and where the label appears to customers on your site. product embed – showcase products anywhere on your site where layoutengine is supported (blog posts, pages, sidebars, and more). simply use a product block to pull items from your product collection into the right context. digital & physical products and services – sell digital products, physical items, or services on squarespace using a single interface. digital products are delivered via customized email links that expire within 24 hours. point of sale – sell in person with point of sale in the squarespace commerce app. connect a square account and pair a reader to accept payments and keep your inventory, customers and sales analytics in sync with your online store. subscriptions – easily sell subscriptions to products and services on a weekly or monthly basis to generate recurring revenue and build customer loyalty. custom forms for products – collect information from customers for each product they add to their cart. whether it’s initials for a monogrammed product or registration info for an event, form blocks help you create forms for the most complex of scenarios. import your products – move your existing products from shopify, big cartel, etsy, or any other platform to squarespace with our .csv importers. donations – accept donations of pre-set or unbounded amounts via the donations block. donations are managed on a separate page from regular orders and purchases in your site manager. affordable pricing – there are no squarespace transaction fees for squarespace commerce plans (basic and advanced). customers selling through squarespace’s website product will be charged a transaction fee at a competitive rate. see our pricing page for more details. visit stripe and paypal for payment processing rates for your country. speedy sign-up – 30-second merchant sign-up with stripe and paypal gives you instant approval and doesn’t require any paperwork. begin receiving money for purchases via direct deposit in moments. multiple payment methods – accept credit cards in your online store with stripe. you can also accept additional payment methods in checkout such as apple pay and paypal. accepted currencies – with squarespace commerce you can choose to charge in usd, aud, cad, chf, czk, dkk, eur, gbp, hkd, ils, myr, mxn, nok, nzd, php, pln, rub, sek, sgd, or thb. visit stripe and paypal to see if your country is supported. customizable checkout – customize the checkout experience to reflect your brand by choosing your own color scheme and adding your logo. set up custom checkout forms for gift messages, special delivery instructions, or comments to optimize the checkout experience for your business. mobile-optimized checkout – squarespace’s single page checkout is optimized to look great on all devices, making it easy for your customers to buy wherever they are. our checkout is integrated with google place autocomplete to make entering addresses super fast for your customers. express checkout mode – allow your customers to bypass the shopping cart and jump straight to checkout, a great way for single-product stores to streamline checkout. checkout on your domain – direct customers to a secure checkout on your domain for a consistent shopping experience and stronger sense of security. customer accounts – allow your customers to create accounts and sign in for a faster checkout. with this feature, you can increase sales from repeat buyers and build ongoing relationships with your customers. gift cards – gift cards are a special product that recipients can use as payment for orders from your online store. every purchased gift card has a unique code. when a customer purchases a gift card, they can email the code to their recipient or themselves. discounts – create automatic discounts that apply to entire orders, orders over a set amount, specific products, or offer free shipping. reduce the risk of overuse by limiting discounts to one use per customer, or setting the total number of uses. mailing list integration – at checkout, encourage your customers to sign up for your mailing list. connect your mailchimp account and start building your list of contacts. social integrations – easily share store news and product updates to twitter, facebook, or any other social account supported by the platform. each product listing includes metadata for pinterest rich pins and twitter product cards. products on instagram – sync your products with facebook’s product catalog to tag products in your instagram posts and sell more. pinterest rich pins – all products on squarespace have rich pins enabled by default. product rich pins surface product prices and item inventory in the pin, making it more relevant to shoppers. rich pins appear higher in pinterest feeds, driving more traffic to your store. abandoned checkout recovery – recover lost sales by sending automatic emails to customers who abandoned checkout. track how many sales and how much revenue are recovered. inventory management – manage your inventory with an easy-to-use interface and quick views into your variants and stock levels. we’ll send you an email alert when your stock levels are low. order management – track outstanding orders, resend customer update emails, and print packing slips from a single interface. customers – understand your customer base with insights such as total spend, average order value, and more about each customer. easily sort your customers to identify your best customers, ones that haven’t purchased in a while, and more. mobile app for store management – access your orders, customers, and inventory on the go with the commerce app. scan tracking number barcodes, fulfill orders, issue returns, manage stock levels, and contact customers from a handheld device. real-time carrier calculated shipping rates with usps, ups, fedex – get real-time shipping estimates for u.s. customers during checkout to avoid under or overcharging for shipping. custom email styles – customize transactional order emails sent to customers, including the order confirmation, order fulfilled, order refunded, and abandoned checkout emails. flexible shipping options – set up shipping options for your store, from pickup, flat-rate, weight-based, to real-time rates. apply country restrictions as needed. 3d packing algorithms – visualize how squarespace estimates the size and cost of each package with a 3d rendering of orders inside their boxes. this feature is available when using any real-time carrier rates. tax rates – manage your tax rates for countries and regions where you are required to charge tax. with support for vat, hst, gst, we help you comply with local tax requirements, allow you to set prices inclusive or exclusive of tax, and provide customizable invoices to suit your needs. commerce analytics – understand how your business is doing by tracking the revenue, orders, units sold, and much more. learn which traffic sources and products are generating the most sales. delve into your purchase funnel to learn how you can optimize conversion. squarespace extensions – portfolio of third-party extensions to help you manage, expand, and optimize your business. store manager permissions – designate store managers who have control over inventory and orders, but not the rest of your site. related products – show relevant products to increase the chance your customers find what they’re looking for and make a purchase. data export – you can always export your order data to .csv format for accounting and spreadsheet tools. developer friendly – squarespace commerce works perfectly with the squarespace developer platform, so developers can create custom squarespace stores with a totally unique design. commerce apis – build custom integrations to third party systems to handle your back office and ecommerce needs, from order fulfillment to inventory management to much more. highly secure – pci compliant. ssl enabled. search engine optimization no plugins necessary – squarespace has been publishing sites on the web for more than a decade, and includes all known best practices for seo without the need for additional plugins. indexed and searchable – squarespace produces pages with clean html markup that is easily indexable by search engines. page titles – you have full control over the ordering of your page titles, including the ability to create different title schemes for your homepage, item pages, and collection pages. automatic google sitemaps – squarespace automatically generates and links a proper sitemap.xml, which enumerates every single url on your site with proper priority for perfect indexing even if you use a javascript-heavy template. robots.txt – we automatically generate a correct robots.txt, link your sitemap, and exclude all squarespace service/search endpoints. automatic tagging – images contain proper <alt> and <title> tags, improving search engine indexing. all meta tags for pages and <link> tags for rss feeds are automatically generated. image descriptions are properly converted to <alt> tags. canonical tagging – squarespace generates proper rel="canonical" tags that ensure search engines are picking up the proper versions of your pages when content exists at more than one url. clean urls – all primary pages on your squarespace site contain clean urls that are easily indexed and read. automatic redirects – given multiple domains, squarespace will redirect users and search engines to the right domain and use rel="canonical" to fix these references. facebook open graph support – squarespace generates proper facebook open graph tags to be used when your links are shared on social services. google authorrank support – this integration provides improved search listings for articles on squarespace. anti-spam – squarespace is a paid service that aggressively fights spam. if you are using a free service that is a target for spammers, you potentially run the risk of being falsely grouped with other spam sites. analytics app site analytics – currently available for ios and android devices at no extra cost, squarespace analytics presents site traffic, sales, popular content and more. monitor your kpis – follow the metrics that matter to you, from page views and unique visitors to top referrers and trend charts, so you can keep a pulse on your site even when you’re on-the-go. squarespace logo an array of icons – choose from over 30,000 icons provided by the noun project. simple ui – you can use the easy-to-use, browser-based design tool to instantly create a basic logo for your business or project. preview and download – preview your logo in context on a business card, website, or t-shirt. you can download black on white, white on black, and full color version files. affordable price – squarespace logo is free for customers and $10 (usd) plus applicable taxes a logo for non-customers. analytics traffic overview – see how your visits, unique visitors, and pageviews trend over time. gain insight into the top traffic sources, products, device types, browsers and operating systems by visits. popular content – quickly identify the top performing content on your website. google search keywords – see which keywords drive the most visitors to your site with the google search keywords panel in squarespace analytics. verify your site with google search console to access these insights, to refine your seo strategy, and optimize your ranking. traffic sources – learn where your visits and sales are coming from. analyze which channels, like search or social, are most effective. you can also dig into specific referral links to see which press articles and posts result in the most traffic or sales. sales overview – track how key performance metrics, such as revenue, units sold, orders, visits, conversion rate, average order volume, and revenue per visit, change over time. segment your sales by the top selling products, traffic sources, device type, and more. purchase funnel – a visual report that shows you how many visits result in purchases, where customers are dropping off, and how changes to your site affect conversion over time. this feature is available in the commerce basic and advanced plans. abandoned cart – gain insight into how many of your carts are being abandoned and recovered, and the corresponding revenue those represent. device filtering – filter sales and traffic metrics by mobile, tablet, desktop, or other. site search queries – find out what your visitors are searching for on your site and gain insight into what products or topics your visitors may be interested in. rss statistics – squarespace provides accurate rss subscriber figures as well as a breakdown of where your rss subscribers are coming from. activity log – gain insight into how your visitors are navigating through your site, how much time they’re spending on your site, and where they are coming from geographically. unique visitors and page views – squarespace monitors your page views, visit counts, and visitor counts, including raw, unique, and robot hits. website statistics are computed every few minutes for a real-time view of your numbers. this feature is available in our website and cover page product lines. visitor insights – squarespace lets you know where your visitors are coming from, and what keywords are leading visitors to your website. popular content – quickly identify the top performing content on your website. this feature is available in the website and commerce product lines. rss statistics – squarespace provides accurate rss subscriber figures as well as a breakdown of where your rss subscribers are coming from. this feature is available in the website and commerce product lines. preferred os/browsers – track what operating systems and browsers your users are using to visit your website. this feature is available in our website and cover page product lines. traffic sources – learn which websites, social networks, and other marketing channels are driving interest and sales. this feature is available in the website and commerce product lines. commerce overview – a dashboard focuses on seven commerce kpis, including revenue, units sold, orders, visits, conversion rate, average order volume, and revenue per visit. this feature is available in the commerce product line. purchase funnel – a visual report that shows you how many visits result in purchases, where customers are dropping off, and how changes to your site affect conversion over time. this feature is available in the commerce product line. abandoned checkout – this panel tracks the success of your abandoned checkout emails so you know how many checkouts were recovered as a result of automated emails. this feature is available in the commerce product line. device filtering – filter performance metrics by mobile, tablet, desktop, or other. this feature is available in the commerce product line. reliable service architecture we use what we make – our front site, www.squarespace.com, is a squarespace website called ’www.’ all of our websites, including our own, are served from the same powerful infrastructure as yours. high capacity and availability – every system in our infrastructure participates in serving all of our websites, so your site is powered by the same infrastructure that powers sites with millions of pages views a day. powerful, custom infrastructure – caching? partial rendering? load balancing? scaling? it’s all handled on a grid of servers that already serves millions of hits per day. a remarkable history – squarespace has been in business for more than a decade. we’ve ensured the robustness of our system through real world use, not lab testing. plugins not required – no additional caching plugins are required for your squarespace website. everything is built in, and you do not need to optimize anything. content ownership and our business content ownership – you own all of the content you put on the squarespace platform. we offer one-click data portability. ad-free – while you can run your own ads or make money with your site if you’d like, we do not sell or run ads against your content. your site is yours. squarespace badge – if you’d like, you can display the squarespace badge on your website, which displays the copy “powered by squarespace” when you hover your mouse over it. privacy protected – squarespace has a straightforward subscription business model and has been profitable for more than a decade. we do not sell your data. no surprises – there is no surprise pricing during checkout, no additional charges, no long-term contracts (with monthly plans), and no credit card required up front. try us for free for 14 days, no questions asked. domains purchasing domains – in addition to configuring third party domains, customers can purchase domains directly from squarespace. over 200 tlds are currently available for purchase, and each domain comes with a beautiful parking page and free whois privacy. free domain included – all annual squarespace accounts include a free custom domain for the first year (offer is valid for initial domain registration only). seamless domain registration – domains registered through us are automatically set up to work with your squarespace website, which means you never have to touch dns records. dns control & domain forwarding – easily set up popular third-party services on your domain in just a couple of clicks with our dns & forwarding presets. custom emails – easily set up g suite with your domain to enable personalized email addresses. connect third-party managed domains – squarespace allows you to easily connect your website to a domain you purchased from a third-party provider (such as google, namecheap, or godaddy). g suite integration email by google under your domain – squarespace customers with a custom domain, whether registered through squarespace or another service, can link their domain with g suite. more than email – in addition to gmail, you can also use other popular business tools such as google docs, google drive and google calendar. custom site search engine proprietary search engine – squarespace provides a robust internal search engine that provides your readers with accurate search results. constantly updated – squarespace search is updated in real time. full search results – a custom site overlay provides full screen search results for every website design. front-end/back-end search – search works on both your website and within your website manager. importing and exporting blog importing – import blog content from blogger, wordpress, tumblr, or squarespace 5. product importing – import products from bigcartel, shopify, and etsy, or any other platform. image importing – import images from external websites and smugmug. content exporting – export content to wordpress. complete access – programmatically access all site content via structured json at any time by appending ?format=json to any squarespace url. support 24/7 email support – squarespace offers email support 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. all customer care team members are employees in our offices, and typically respond to help requests in about an hour. squarespace help center – squarespace provides an extensive knowledge base, offering detailed help guides, videos, and workshops. to explore the help center, visit support.squarespace.com. community answers – squarespace provides a community-driven q&a website where you can easily find answers to hundreds of questions, or pose a question of your own to be answered by other squarespace experts. visit answers.squarespace.com. live chat support – squarespace offers live chat support during weekdays from 3am to 8pm est, and email support 24/7. developer platform full code control – change everything from the opening doctype tag to the footer. git built-in – all templates are exposed via git, so you can work with a team and roll back changes easily. sftp access – complete sftp access to your template file system means easy integration with editors like sublime text and coda. native development tools – use native development tools to edit your squarespace website. there are no clunky web-based html editors. json access – query any page as json to access any of your content in a structured way. your entire website becomes an api. json-template – our custom, simple templating engine has almost no language constructs to learn, and code indentation mirrors the underlying data structure of your website. less.css – less.css by default. server-side automatic css pre-processing. query tags – squarespace query tags let you compose many queries into a single page, allowing for news and magazine style layouts. automatic script combo-ing – squarespace will automatically join your scripts into a single file, speeding up your site load times. custom code – all custom code is saved to our scalable grid network. this is not shared hosting. every piece of custom code is cached and placed on our distributed network of systems. squarespace logo squarespace logo ↓ ↓ products ↓ website templates websites domains online stores point of sale extensions marketing tools email marketing scheduling stories professional email logo maker premium plan pricing feature list customers ↓ featured small businesses photographers bloggers artists restaurants musicians weddings students company ↓ about careers our brand press & media newsroom terms of service privacy policy contact us timeline imprint community ↓ help & support hire an expert forum webinars developer platform circle follow ↓ newsroom squarespace blog creative blog engineering blog service status instagram youtube linkedin facebook twitter