pricing features interworx clustering developers roadmap support overview blog documentation interworx forums version history help desk faq’s feedback and feature requests company end user license agreement privacy policy our brand contact us my account nodeworx overview nodeworx is the system administrator interface for managing server-wide behavior and hosting (siteworx) accounts. when you log into nodeworx, the first thing you see is nodeworx home, which gives you at-a-glance look at: the current status of system services graphs showing recent cpu, memory, and bandwidth usage general server info from there, you can navigate using the menu or use the quick search feature to get where you need to go. centralized hosting management nodeworx is a one-stop interface for setting up and managing your hosting business. in nodeworx, you can easily: create and administer web hosting (siteworx) accounts configure hosting plans and resource limitations utilize the reseller system so your resellers can create and administer hosting accounts create additional system administrator (nodeworx) users and customize permissions change user themes, branding and language settings setup email alerts so you're notified when problems are detected setup email alerts from system when problems are detected and much more! complete server control with every critical hosting service mapped to a section of the interface, nodeworx acts as the captain's chair of your server. need to tweak your mysql memory cache limits? add a few megabytes and hit the restart button. need to add some new dns zones to your name server? the dns server configuration section has a robust interface for publishing dns records. email, imap, ftp, nfs, spam protection, virus protection, ssh access, firewall rules and ip addresses are all configurable from the interface without ever having to look at a command prompt. clustering clustering multiple servers together allows you to scale your offerings to meet the reliability and availability demands of modern web applications. in the nodeworx clustering menu, you can: set up the cluster manager (the system that will be used to manage the cluster) add or subtract nodes to dynamically scale your cluster configure the cluster to function within multiple networking setups, for example nat, single nic/server, multiple nic/server, external storage, etc. take a look at our clustering basics and our clustering documentation for the basics and example setups. siteworx overview siteworx is the website owner interface that you and your customers can use to manage your domains, email, and other hosting features. when you log into siteworx, the first thing you see is siteworx home, which gives you an at-a-glance look at: your hosting account features your current bandwidth usage links to common tasks based on your recent usage simple hosting management siteworx provides an exceptionally user-friendly and uncluttered interface for website owners to manage their sites and other hosting services. in siteworx, you can easily: setup and configure domains, email, ftp and mysql install cms or forum software through simplescripts or softaculous create or upload web content via out integrated file manager administer advanced features like domainkey signing, remote email delivery and non-critical dns records and much more! one-click backups regular backups should be a core part of every website owner's routine, and with interworx, creating backups is easy. make a full, partial, or structured backup with just one click! manage existing backups in a central location setup backup schedules so that they will be there when you need them statistics suite interworx comes with a powerful set of statitics suites tp augment the other tools you use to monitor your web traffic: webalizer, awstats, and analog are updated daily and give you in-depth information about your websites usage and performance raw bandwidth usage graphs are updated every 5 minutes so you can stay on top of demand spikes © 2019 interworx, llc. all rights reserved. we use cookies to understand how you interact with our site, to personalize and streamline your experience, and to tailor advertising. by continuing to use our site, you accept our use of cookies and accept our privacy policy.accept