home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox food and drink product reviews prevnext february 2019 degustabox review – degusta and chill leyla preston tue 12th mar 2019 11shares share tweet pin another great month of delicious edible goodies from degustabox, which features the following brands this month: appy kids co – whole milk – £1.99 clearspring organic seaveg crispies turmeric multi-pack (vegan/gluten free) – £2.59 choc chick – quinoa pops and plantain bites – £1.85 snaffling pig – pork crackling low & slow bbq/perfectly salted – £0.75 deli kitchen folded brioche flatbreads (fresh product) – £1.25 explore cuisine organic chickpea fusilli (vegan/gluten free) – £3.00 sacla’ – reduced fat basil pesto (vegan/gluten free) – £2.50 – plus competition to win a hamper full of products tailored to your dietary requirements – more info below! bebeto – watermelon jelly gums – £0.50 orangina – original (vegan/gluten free) – £1.30 here is the link to the full background of the degustabox and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degustabox-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degustabox/ but, for a quick recap, degustabox is an online retail service that provides a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. but lucky customers like yourself will receive a £7.99 discount when signing up for your first degustabox by inserting discount code bldeg15 at the checkout. products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degustabox here: http://bit.ly/dbhomepage. you can stay updated via degustabox’s social networks too: facebook – http://bit.ly/dbukfacebook twitter – http://bit.ly/dbuktwitter instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers can receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degustabox has recently introduced db discoveries to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: what’s in february 2019’s degustabox? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degustabox below: products appy kids co – whole milk – £1.00 clearspring – organic seaveg crispies turmeric multi-pack – £2.59 choc chick quinoa pops and plantain bites – £1.85 snaffling pig pork crackling low & slow bbq/perfectly salted – £0.75 deli kitchen folded brioche flatbreads – £1.25 explore cuisine organic chickpea fusilli – £3 sacla’ reduced fat basil pesto – £2.50 competition! bebeto watermelon jelly gums – £0.50 orangina original – £1.30 what did i like most about february 2019’s degustabox? rating: reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (8 years old) aidan (6 years old) what’s in february 2019’s degustabox? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degustabox below: products appy kids co – whole milk – £1.00 “our milk is yummy, clean and healthy. produced using red tractor approved milk to enforce excellent standards of farming and preparation, the range is 100% traceable and packed in british factories for the freshest taste and a longer shelf life. available at morrisons stores nationwide.” our opinion – the boys absolutely loved this milk and the cartons were a great addition to the lunchboxes i packed when we headed to the park. i don’t drink cow’s milk so i didn’t taste it myself, but the boys said they really liked the taste. i would prefer it to be a plant milk though 4.5/5 clearspring – organic seaveg crispies turmeric multi-pack – £2.59 “clearspring’s organic seaveg crispies turmeric are a light, delicious toasted nori sea vegetable snack, made with just four simple ingredients. they’re baked for just a few seconds to create their unique and moreish flavour. they are gluten free, vegan, high in fibre and contain only 18 calories per bag.” our opinion – i love seeing ‘vegan’ on products, but i wasn’t too sure what to do with these crispies. i tried them by themselves and they tasted a bit strange, although i was impressed that they tasted just like the nori i used to eat. so i tried them in salads and they provided a salty crunchy flavour which meant i didn’t need to add salt. there are quite a few in a pack, so i will attempt to make some vegan sushi rolls next! 4/5 choc chick quinoa pops and plantain bites – £1.85 “choc chick’s delicious new vegan treats combine the wholegrain goodness of quinoa and tropical loveliness of plantain with the finest ecuadorian single origin organic cacao. diary and gluten free, with 50% less sugar than your average chocolates, these new quinoa pops and plaintain bites are the perfect guilt free indulgence. @gochocchick” our opinion – i absolutely loved these gorgeous chocolate snacks, especially as they are vegan and made from healthy quinoa and plaintain! the flavour was so authentic and the kids loved the taste of each of these as well. i would much rather be offering my kids these kinds of sweet snacks than regular sweets 5/5 snaffling pig pork crackling low & slow bbq/perfectly salted – £0.75 “we think if something is worth doing, it’s worth doing piggin’ right. that’s why we always set out to make the finest, most awesome flavoured pork crackling possible. winners of 9 great taste awards, our premium cuts of pork are double-cooked and bursting full of flavour.” our opinion – i didn’t try these myself but my husband did and he really didn’t like them he has never tried pork scratchings before and was really overwhelmed by the saltiness. he definitely wasn’t impressed! 1/5 deli kitchen folded brioche flatbreads – £1.25 “deli kitchen wants to inspire consumers to branch out from the traditional lunch options of sliced sandwiches and salads and try their new range inspired by breads from across the globe. this brioche folded flatbread is a rich, melt-in-the-mouth flatbread. perfect for burgers or with griddled steak and gooey cheese.” our opinion – loved, loved these brioche flatbreads and they didn’t last long enough to pop into the freezer! i made a lovely bean stir fry and created little brioche pockets which the family wolfed down at dinner. i’d definitely get these again! 5/5 explore cuisine organic chickpea fusilli – £3 “explore the possibilities – pasta made from plant-based protein and fibre which is easy to prepare colourful and simply delicious. just add your favourite vegetables or sauce so the entire family can enjoy! organic, vegan and naturally gluten-free – it’s the smarter way to pasta! #useyournoodle.” our opinion – we haven’t had the chance to try these new chickpea fusilli pasta yet but i really cannot wait to try with the below sacla’ pesto and some veg. i love the idea of chickpea pasta and i hope that it’ll be a hit in our house as i would definitely replace the normal whole wheat pasta with something that is packed with more protein and fibre. 5/5 sacla’ reduced fat basil pesto – £2.50 “sacla’ new reduced fat pesto has 30% less fat than classic pesto and no added sugar or salt. the healthiest pesto replaces cheese with tofu making it suitable for vegans too – what’s not to love?” our opinion – again, we haven’t tried this pesto yet but i’d absolutely love to try it with the chickpea pasta. anything vegan gets my top vote! 5/5 competition! degustabox is partnering with sacla’ to offer each degustabox subscriber the chance to win a hamper full of pesto, pasta sauces and antipasti, with 2nd and 3rd runners up being in with a chance to win a free degustabox. each participant will also automatically win 20 points added to their account so it’s definitely worth entering! all you need to do is follow the sacla’ instagram page @sacla_uk then upload your best recipe pictures using the sacla’ reduced fat pesto, with the hashtag #degustasacla on instagram. competition is open to uk residents only and ends on 18th march 2019 – so hurry, not long to go now! bebeto watermelon jelly gums – £0.50 “bebeto watermelon is our biggest selling pack in the uk with over 3m sold in 2018. we hope you enjoy.” our opinion – the boys loved these sweets – i thought they’d be sour, but they were quite sweet. it’s not something i would give to the boys, but it makes for a nice treat 3.5/5 orangina original – £1.30 “orangina, with its unmistakable orange flavour, soft sparkle and real citrus pulp, makes the perfect refreshing drink. it is both delicious on it’s own with ice and a slice of orange, or as a mixer in mocktails and cocktails.” our opinion– i am a fan of fizzy orange and i used to remember drinking orangina when i was younger. the familiar taste brings me back and it’s so refreshing after a meal. 4/5 what did i like most about february 2019’s degustabox? i absolutely loved the choc chick quinoa pops and plaintain bites – what a great innovative idea to offer healthy sweet snacks like that! i also enjoyed the deli kitchen folded brioche flatbreads, which were wolfed down by the entire family in one sitting. i will have to buy more of both! rating: 4 out of 5 – a great selection of vegan products this month, which i love – keep ’em coming! never miss a new post! don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:degustabox related posts september 2015 – degustabox produc... may 2019 brunch and afternoon tea degust... chocolate lemon mousse with a blackberry... may 2014 – degustabox product revi... may 2018 degustabox ‘world cup’ product ... may 2016 – degustabox food box – product... november 2017 degustabox review april 2017 degustabox review june 2015 – picnic degustabox product re... bengal chicken curry june 2014 – degustabox product rev... july summer 2017 degustabox review august 2016 degustabox review august 2014 – degustabox product r... october 2014 – degustabox product review... january 2018 degustabox review june 2019 summer and bbq degusta box rev... june 2017 bbq degustabox review may picnic 2017 degustabox review november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... december 2018 degustabox review march 2016 – degustabox product re... september 2014 – degustabox produc... july 2014 – degustabox product rev... april 2014 – degustabox product re... october 2017 degustabox review december 2017 degustabox review july 2016 – degustabox review february 2020 degusta box review – easte... august 2017 degustabox review about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 11shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok