home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox product reviews prevnext february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! leyla preston tue 17th mar 2020 1shares share tweet pin another great month of delicious edible goodies from degusta box, which features the following brands this month: trek protein flapjack cocoa oat – £2.50 kitkat milk chocolate easter bunny 29g – £0.65 galaxy vegan bar – £3 livia’s salted caramel million squares – £1.50 jacked foods jackfruit chunks – £1.89 my sweet chickpea – £1.25 very lazy slow cooker pastes – £1.99 mug shot high protein roast chicken pasta – £1.29 grey poupon dijon mustard – £1.50 lost coast fruit spritzer + acv – £2.49 shaken udder milkshakes – £1.40 heinz paw patrol & disney frozen no added sugar pasta shapes – £0.55 full value of the box – £21.00!k here is the link to the full background of the degusta box and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degusta box-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degusta box/ but, for a quick recap, degusta box is an online retail service that offers a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. but lucky customers like yourself will receive a £7.99 discount when signing up for your first degusta box by inserting discount code degusta5 at the checkout. offer is valid up to and including 31 july 2019 so don’t miss out! products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degusta box here: http://tidd.ly/8f140077 you can stay updated via degusta box’s social networks too: facebook – https://www.facebook.com/degustaboxuk/ twitter – https://twitter.com/degustaboxuk instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers can receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degusta box has recently introduced db discoveries to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: what’s in february 2020’s degusta box? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s text box below: products trek protein flapjack cocoa oat – £2.50 kitkat milk chocolate easter bunny 29g – £0.65 galaxy® vegan bar – £3 livia’s salted caramel million squares – £1.50 jacked foods jackfruit chunks my sweet chickpea – £1.25 very lazy slow cooker pastes – £1.99 mug shot high protein roast chicken pasta – £1.29 grey poupon dijon mustard – £1.50 lost coast fruit spritzer + acv heinz paw patrol & disney frozen no added sugar pasta shapes what did i like most about february 2020’s degusta box? rating: free resource library! reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (9 years old) aidan (7 years old) what’s in february 2020’s degusta box? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s text box below: products trek protein flapjack cocoa oat – £2.50 “trek protein flapjacks are a british classic, revolutionised. made with gluten-free oats, containing 9g of plant-based protein, they’re vegan and taste amazing. cocoa oat is our number 1 selling flavour – glorious golden oats topped with melted dark cocoa. let us know what you think on instagram. tag @eattrek. available in major supermarket chains, either in free from or cereal bar aisle.” our opinion – these were absolutely delicious and perfect to carry around as a snack. i love vegan products because they feel so much lighter on the tummy and the cocoa oat had a lovely rich flavour without being too sickly. i could eat all three of the bars that were supplied, but sadly i had to give one each to my boys too. 5/5 kitkat milk chocolate easter bunny 29g – £0.65 “celebrate your easter break with kitkat milk chocolate easter bunnies! they all new kitkat bunnies have a smooth milk chocolate shell with a rich chocolatey centre with crispy wafer pieces. no artificial colours, flavours, or preservatives. gluten-free. you should receive 2 items in your box. available across all major supermarkets, w&c and ireland.” our opinion – these are such cute easter bunny treats, which the boys loved. they taste just like normal kitkats, but they look like cute bunnies and would fit perfectly in little easter party bags or as part of a tasty treasure hunt over easter. every year, my middle one, whose birthday is on 5th april, sends out a little chocolate treat to his classmates, and these would be the ideal birthday treats for 30 kids as they’re affordable too. 5/5 galaxy® vegan bar – £3 “galaxy® has recently launched a vegan alternative, available in three varieties; smooth orange, caramel and sea salt and caramelised hazelnut. building on the brand’s mission to encourage everyone to choose pleasure, the vegan recipe uses hazelnut paste to create the same smooth creamy signature characteristics of galaxy®. you should receive 1 of 3 items in your box. available at tesco, ocado & amazon.” our opinion – i love sweet vegan products because i feel healthier eating these to the full-fat dairy alternatives. these galaxy® vegan alternatives were utterly delicious! i loved them all, especially the caramelised hazelnut, which tasted wonderfully nutty and not super sweet. the smooth orange had a very subtle citrusy taste and i enjoyed the slight sea salt taste of the caramel & sea salt. they are quite expensive but if you’re looking for quality in a chocolate bar, i would definitely recommend these galaxy® bars. 4/5 livia’s salted caramel million squares – £1.50 “unbelievably tasty, gooey, all-natural salted caramel million squares. gooey date caramel between a layer of raw dark chocolate and oaty base. all livia’s treats are vegan, gluten & dairy free and can be enjoyed by everyone! available at tesco, sainsbury’s, boots, ocado, waitrose, holland & barrett, and many more” our opinion – i wasn’t expecting how thick and gooey this bar would be. it has a subtly sweet flavour; it doesn’t seem to overloaded in bad stuff, which is great. it’s a great snack to have as a pick-me-up and it’s great that it’s vegan too! love vegan treats! 4/5 jacked foods jackfruit chunks “our dried jackfruit has a soft, chewy texture and a naturally sweet flavour that in some ways resembles that of a mango. packed with vitamins and minerals, you almost wouldn’t believe it’s good for you! available at whole foods, borough box (online) and at john lewis.” our opinion – these were interesting snacks. the jackfruit smelled awful but tasted quite different – sweet, gooey and stringy. i’m not sure i’m all too a fan of these snacks, but i get the appeal and that they’re healthy too. i like the mango version better. but dried fruit had never really been my thing. – 2/5 my sweet chickpea – £1.25 “dark chocolate covered roasted chickpea snacks. who would have thought that could exist? what makes my sweet chickpea dramatically different is its nutritional profile; more protein and fibre to fill you up, with significantly less fat than chocolate or nuts! that’s why we call ourselves “chocolate with benefits”. available in asda freefrom aisles and on amazon.co.uk” our opinion – i do love a bit of coconut flakes on my sweet treat, but these were just delicious. i love coconut dark chocolate covered chickpeas – it’s everything i want in a sweet treat. not too sweet and very moreish. i want more!! 5/5 very lazy slow cooker pastes – £1.99 “cook up a storm with our slow cooking paste pots. each flavour has two recipes (one meaty, one meat-free), require only a handful of ingredients and a little prep to make incredible meals. no slow cooker? no problem, these also work in the oven, see pack for details. you shoulder receive 1 of 2 items in your box. available at tesco” our opinion – i love the idea of these cute little slow cooker pots to help add depth of flavour to the dish. unfortunately, although they tasted lovely (especially the harissa tagine) they were too spicy for the kids to enjoy. i would love to try slow cooker pots that aren’t spicy at all so the kids can enjoy next time. – 3/5 mug shot high protein roast chicken pasta – £1.29 “mug shot protein pots are not only hot, tasty and high protein, they’re super convenient at work, at home or on the go. containing less than 2% fat, under 260 calories and 13g protein per pot, they are ready in just 5 minutes!. available at tesco & asda” our opinion – i am not really a fan of instant pots as i find them to taste either quite watery and bland or chemical and strong. i found this mug shot to be neither and quite enjoyed the taste of the chicken pasta. my only criticism is that you get little for £1.29. 3/5 grey poupon dijon mustard – £1.50 “grey poupon is a delicious premium brand of french dijon and wholegrain mustard. our dijon is made in the traditional french way and has been since 1777; with a white wine base which helps bring a smooth and delicious flavour to your favourite dishes. bon appetit!. available at waitrose, tesco, ocado, m&s & booths.” our opinion – i love dijon mustard, i have a whole selection of different kinds of mustard condiments in my fridge! so, i knew i would love this one. i add dijon mustard to almost everything, and this particular brand did not disappoint. yum! 5/5 lost coast fruit spritzer + acv “lost coast offers a range of fruit spritzers+acv. a great-tasting and revitalising drink that blends sparkling water, unique botanicals and apple cider vinegar, a natural remedy good for the gut and known for health-giving properties. low in sugar and calories, they are available in three different flavours. *you should receive 1 of 3 items in your box. available at ocado, revital health stores, as nature intended and lostcoastdrinks.com.” our opinion – at first i thought that this particular apple cider vinegar drink was going to be disgusting but it actually didn’t taste too bad. you could still taste the acv aftertaste and that was a bit much but otherwise, it was quite refreshing. i don’t know whether you would experience the full benefits of acv in a drink that’s sweetened but it’s a nice treat drink to have when you want to quench your thirst 3.5/5 heinz paw patrol & disney frozen no added sugar pasta shapes “introducing our delicious new pasta shapes featuring your favourite disney frozen and paw patrol characters in a rich juice tomato sauce. now available with no added sugar with the great heinz taste families know and love! *you should receive 2 items in your box. available at tesco, sainsbury’s, waitrose & ocado.” our opinion – these are a nice snack staple to have in your cupboard for younger children as kids enjoy eating anything which has their favourite characters on the packaging. the boys are old for the branded label tins, but they still enjoyed eating a small pasta dish in between meals to whet their appetite. 4/5 what did i like most about february 2020’s degusta box? i’m loving that there are more vegan products in the box now. i love all the sweet snacks, i think they’re delicious, but my favourite has to be the trek flapjacks and my sweet chickpea chocolate balls. they were utterly moreish! rating: 4 out of 5 – i love all the vegan products. i would love to see less spicy ingredients though so my boys can enjoy the meals next time. free resource library! subscribe now and receive your exclusive password to access a whole library of extra content! checklists, printables, guides - it's all yours when you subscribe! success! now check your email to confirm your subscription and get your top secret password to access your free resource library! there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive the free email course. i want those emails! we won't send you spam. unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:degusta boxdegustaboxdegustaboxukfood box related posts december 2017 degustabox review june 2015 – picnic degustabox product re... december 2018 degustabox review may 2016 – degustabox food box – product... february 2015 – degustabox product... july 2014 – degustabox product rev... january 2019 degustabox review august 2017 degustabox review june 2019 summer and bbq degusta box rev... march 2016 – degustabox product re... september 2014 – degustabox produc... may 2018 degustabox ‘world cup’ product ... april 2017 degustabox review october 2017 degustabox review may picnic 2017 degustabox review november 2017 degustabox review november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... july summer 2017 degustabox review june 2017 bbq degustabox review january healthy box 2015 – degusta... august 2016 degustabox review march 2019 degusta box review may 2019 brunch and afternoon tea degust... bengal chicken curry july 2019 picnic degusta box review june 2014 – degustabox product rev... july 2016 – degustabox review april 2014 – degustabox product re... september 2015 – degustabox produc... chocolate lemon mousse with a blackberry... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok