feel ethical, feel eco-friendly: 4 stylish and sustainable men’s fashi – lifestyle by ps
  home sweatshirts t-shirts blog expand submenu blog collapse submenu blog fashion fitness grooming log in create account cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us your cart close cart site navigation home sweatshirts t-shirts blog fashion fitness grooming log in search cart cart feel ethical, feel eco-friendly: 4 stylish and sustainable men’s fashion brands mar 22, 2020 you can be stylish and, at the same time, conscious of what is happening and transpiring to the world. we are now in an era where ethical and sustainable clothing is the new brand of fashion since it has been found out that the clothing industry accounts for 8 per cent of the greenhouse emissions. now clothing brands are becoming more critical and purposive to the materials that they are using to their production. instead of using toxic and non-eco-friendly substances, watch companies like tissot and oris and clothing brands like levi’s, and columbia is now utilizing ecological textile production in order to reduce waste that comes from the creation and production of garments. the role of sustainable fashion is to carry a torch that enables green consumption possible. spending your hard-earned money in clothes that will significantly impact our planet for good, and that is also a quality product surely sound like a win-win solution for everyone. outerknown one of the human’s most significant inventions is the plastics, and somehow it is also the worst things that ever existed on this planet. and we can now seethe damage it creates. but plastics are not only pollutants that are taking a toll on our ecosystem. synthetic fibers contain a tiny that are present in polyester swim trunks that, in turn, enter the waterways every time they are washed. thus, sea life could consume this kind of fibers and later on be ingested by humans. the brand outerknow, founded by kelly slater, a pro surfer and is also known for establishing and creating clothing made from recycled fishing nets. he initiated this environmentally sound alternative for synthetic fiber through the creation of merino wool trunks that is called woolaro that is water-wicking, odor resistant, quick-drying, and the thing about it is that woolaro is fully biodegradable. solo eyewear what is better than helping our world recuperate? well, donating and giving back to the people who need help. yes, solo eyewear does only pride themselves with their eco-friendly products. solo eyewear also keep their head up with their good intentions and a great initiative in helping people see better by donating the 10 percent of their profits. this san diego brand has helped a whopping number of 15,000 in 32 countries and counting. they fund eyeglasses, cataract surgeries, and eye exams for those people who are suffering from eye problems and diseases. solo eyewear used materials like recycled plastics and repurposed bamboo in their sunglasses. in that way, they saved tons and tons of plastics from being produced every year. patagonia patagonia, with its proverbial laurel of responsibility and sustainability, there is no denying that patagonia is one of the frontrunners of brands that really cares for our environment. patagonia is emphasizing in making tech gear that is ready to wear in any kind of environment. patagonia has a recent campaign that is called patagonia action works that deals with community building. through this, patagonia will serve as a resource that will empower those environmental action groups who are seeking change. patagonia has been taking a stance for quite some time and has been petitioning to the government to protect the national parks. they have continuously been safeguarding the ecosystem, challenging the norms, and creating and producing innovative and creative products. their new product, which is the hot weather hemp blends collection, featured pieces that are made from tencel, organic cotton, and hemp. and what they produced in the collection of shorts and shirts that are breathable, light, and durable. united by blue it equates to more than one million pieces of plastic drinking bottles are acquired every minute. five trillion single-use plastics are utilized every year around the globe. due to this, everyone should take the initiative to take care of our planet. thus, united by blue, other than their products made from recycled fabrics and organic materials, they are also committed in the further environmental cleanup that aims to reduce the pollution of plastics. in a year, united by blue hosted events like trash removals in 21 states through this, more than 500,000 pounds of trash were removed from the face of the earth. the company took its commitment to the next level by cleaning a pound of waste for every product they sold. one remarkable thing united by blue is that their style and substance go hand in hand, and one great example for that is the chambray shorts that are made using organic cotton blended with new and recycled hemp. takeaway now that we are facing the dangers of extinction and the growing damage in our ecosystem, resulting in environmental catastrophes like climate change and global warming. we need to take a stance and have a better approach to take good care of our environment. and it may feel like it so hard to know where to begin, but the thing is always good to start in considering the sustainability behind every clothes we wear. clothing companies are now finding an alternative eco-friendly, and ethical responsibility initiatives will surely elevate your style. tags: 4 sustainable menswear brands mens clothing brand menswear brands share share on facebook tweet tweet on twitter pin it pin on pinterest more from the blog top 10 suiting mistakes for men to avoid in 2020 ... read more j5 fashion tracksuits and the rise of athleisure trend. ... read more 6 style tips for men over 60 that will make you look younger than your real age! ... read more our site is built on shopify. you can too build a money making store. start your store on shopify click here to try shopify for free (14 days free trial with this link) ← back to capsule wardrobe for men disclosure : lifestyle by ps is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us facebook twitter pinterest instagram google plus © 2020, lifestyle by ps ecommerce software by shopify paypal inr aud cad eur gbp usd search