skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides tag: feminism the tragedy of monica geller posted on may 14, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay i graduated high school in 1998, either (depending on which arbitrary marker you choose) the last of gen-xers or the first of the millennials. like so many of us who came of age in the 90s, friends was a delightful, aspirational glimpse of the future. (i had no perspective to realize that my friends of… keep reading when online harassment shows up on your doorstep posted on nov 28, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay the letter arrived at my house at the end of october in a plain white envelope with no return address. my name – or some approximation of it (“depruiter” it reads, because, in the words of my beloved, “the person who addressed it is an idiot”) has been printed out on a label and affixed… keep reading the women who write letters posted on sep 18, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay (above: my student id in 1999. let’s just keep our comments to ourselves.) there’s this pattern i keep seeing. it goes like this: woman accuses man of sexual assault. man denies accusations. man’s pr team then releases numerous letters from women saying that he’s not a sexual harasser because, you know, he didn’t harass… keep reading what happened when i tried talking to twitter abusers posted on jul 30, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay trigger warning: please note that this is a blog post about online abuse, and includes screen caps of tweets sent to me. graphic threats and abusive, hateful language toward women appear therein. a few weeks ago, i gave a keynote talk at world domination summit in portland. the thesis: while we regard online misogyny and abuse… keep reading the real reason i hate traveling alone. posted on mar 13, 2018 posted in: air travel, personal essay, random musings when i got home, i cried. finally. rand hugged me, wore that same worried look he gets on his face when something goes wrong and he’s not there for it. for a long time i wondered what it was about me that meant the second i went on a trip on my own, things started… keep reading what kill bill taught me about surviving abuse posted on feb 3, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings when i was 23, a few weeks after kill bill premiered, i dressed up as uma thurman’s character from the film for halloween. in it, she wears a yellow jumpsuit that is itself an homage to bruce lee’s outfit in game of death. i searched for weeks for something similar, and finally found a pair of… keep reading the ambiguity of grace’s story is precisely why we need to talk about it. posted on jan 21, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel i haven’t written about babe.net’s story of a young woman’s evening with aziz ansari because i wasn’t sure what to say about it. i figured if i waited long enough, the issue would pass, and we could move on to other situations that are easier to assess. but the article has lingered in my mind,… keep reading i made the pizza cinnamon rolls from mario batali’s sexual misconduct apology letter posted on jan 10, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay last night, i made cinnamon rolls. i’m not a huge fan of cinnamon rolls, per se, but this recipe was included in mario batali’s sexual misconduct apology letter, and so i feel compelled to make them. batali is not the first powerful man to request forgiveness for “inappropriate actions” towards his coworkers and employees. he is… keep reading the infinite hypocrisy of fake feminist men posted on aug 28, 2017 posted in: random musings image credit. i am at my book reading in portland. though the room is small, it is packed. the audience is mostly friends, though there is a large cluster of people i have never met before. it is, without hyperbole, one of the highlights of my career, the sort of thing i dreamed about when i… keep reading posts navigation page 1 page 2 next page about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.