skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides category: festivals between two knees at the osf posted on jul 27, 2019 posted in: attractions, festivals, shows above photo: between two knees (2019): wotko long, rachel crowl, april ortiz, derek garza, shaun taylor-corbett. photo by jenny graham. minutes before the curtain rose on the night we saw between two knees, my husband rand received a text from our friend shaun, who is in the show. “sorry in advance,” shaun wrote,… keep reading cambodian rock band at the oregon shakespeare festival posted on mar 21, 2019 posted in: attractions, festivals note: this post contains some content that may be upsetting for certain readers – including mention of torture and the cambodian genocide. ————— my trip to cambodia feels so long ago – more than five years – that i have to remind myself that i was there. i look at the photos, and see myself… keep reading the festival of las fallas, valencia, spain posted on apr 19, 2015 posted in: attractions, festivals last week, i went for a run to the park near our home. and by “run” i mean jog. and by “jog” i mean walking in sort of bouncy way that, if viewed at a much higher speed, would suggest the act of physical exercise. all while wheezing like an asthmatic darth vader. ahem. keep reading about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.