toggle navigation home fibromyalgia swtor swtor blog posts swtor beginner’s guides swtor outfits swtor fanfiction talitha’koum lotro lotro blog posts lotro events calendar lotro beginners guides lotro festival guides lotro fanfiction read most recent chapters lotro outfits game reviews ffxiv contact & support news – jedi’s journal support me contact fj privacy hello there! welcome to the digital home-from-home of fibrojedi (catch me on twitter). here i will occasionally blog about life with fibromyalgia. however the bulk of my posts centre around gaming on the lord of the rings online (lotro!) and star wars: the old republic (swtor). i also write fanfiction based in both games. new & updated posts what’s new? what’s updated? who am i? i am thirty-something, fighting many symptoms of fibromyalgia and i live in scotland. i have a wife, a daughter and a cat. i also drink far too much coffee (coffee being pretty bad for fibromyalgia). due to a sharp decline in my health i can no longer hold down a ‘normal job’, so am looking to support my family through other online ventures now. why fibrojedi? i chose the name fibrojedi as ‘fibro’ is the shortened version of ‘fibromyalgia’ and i have somewhat more in common with the jedi philosophy than the sith code. though as you’ll see from this site, i’m not averse to role-playing or writing fanfiction about the sith. i’m enjoying both sides in my gaming time! my ‘projects’ as my pain levels mean a ‘normal’ job no longer works, instead i have other projects which i hope will help support my family in the long term! these are: patreon: get early access to nearly all blog posts and a chance to input on some, too! youtube: containing past streams, swtor cutscenes, some lotro videos and the occasional fibromyalgia vlog! this blog: of course this site is a project too! gaming guides, fibromyalgia stuff and fanfiction. along with doing all i can to keep it running smoothly! drawing as rest: i’ve been working on my drawing skills lately. this is a hobby and not something i’m ever looking to turn into an income stream, because i need the hobby! however you can see completed pieces on my deviantart profile. find me in-game if you want to find me in-game, then feel free! here are character names you can message or add to friends lists! lotro: evernight (myrlas, lamuna), crickhollow (myrlas, lothver) swtor: darth malgus (cor-jhan, talitha’koum) swtor & lotro fanfiction from time-to-time i write star wars fanfiction, based on characters i have created in swtor. my longest/deepest story revolves around sith healer talitha’koum starting right from her trials on korriban. i have also been writing lotro fanfiction for a while, tracing the journey of one of my elves, caethir. i’m also weaving some of my other characters into his story as it progresses! thank you for visiting my site, i really appreciate it! may the force be ever with you, may it make you strong. fibro jedi latest new posts lotro make all content free until end of april 2020!march 19, 2020 5:07 pm i don’t normally do news-y style posts, but lotro players rejoice! everyone knows that due to the covid outbreak, life has become challenging. more and more people will be at home – and unlike...read more → swtor makeb gsi missions guidemarch 18, 2020 6:00 pm one of my favourite planets in swtor is makeb. it’s sunny, picturesque and the music is relaxing. although it has a few weekly heroic missions, once you’ve done rise of the hutt cartel, there’s...read more → lotro history of the dúnedain deed guide and mapmarch 14, 2020 6:40 pm the dúnedain, part of the race of mortal man but with longer life-spans, were long the watchers of events in middle-earth, its silent guardians. as part of your exploration of bree-land, you can uncover...read more → lotro the ruins of bree-land deed guide and mapmarch 14, 2020 6:39 pm much as with the history of the dúnedain deed, bree-land still has some remnant walls and towers from previous kingdoms. some of these relate to dúnedain heritage. so, enjoy exploring bree-land’s past with this...read more → posts recently updated tatooine gsi missions – swtor guideoctober 29, 2016 3:33 pm one of the ways i have created variation in my gaming has been to mix up story content with other styles of missions. one of these is the seeker droid and macrobinoculars missions for...read more → lotro spring festival 2020 guide – events, hedge-maze, mounts and cosmetics!march 14, 2020 1:37 pm it may be a wet or cold spring on modern-day earth, but the lotro spring festival welcomes in brighter and warmer days in middle earthrain is still very possible, naturally!! there are quests in...read more → lotro make all content free until end of april 2020!march 19, 2020 5:07 pm i don’t normally do news-y style posts, but lotro players rejoice! everyone knows that due to the covid outbreak, life has become challenging. more and more people will be at home – and unlike...read more → swtor makeb gsi missions guidemarch 18, 2020 6:00 pm one of my favourite planets in swtor is makeb. it’s sunny, picturesque and the music is relaxing. although it has a few weekly heroic missions, once you’ve done rise of the hutt cartel, there’s...read more → 12th october 201511th march 2020 fibro jedi fibro jedi looking for something else? search for: spying on the alliance coffee me up! if you like what i do, or i've helped you in some way please consider buying me a coffee. it's not good for my fibromyalgia, but it helps me wake up and get things done! thank you! join fj’s crew! fibro jedi is grateful to have the support of 16 patrons which helps me to keep making new things here! please check out the following patron's website who i am proud to be partnered with: rebelibrarian to see what benefits a crew-member receives please click or tap here. thank you! report this ad how i organise stuff swtor blog posts 98 lotro 81 swtor fanfiction 46 fibromyalgia 44 talitha'koum 29 swtor kotet blog posts – knights of the eternal throne 14 well i managed some #ffxiv, but i'm so tired after just two hours, it's clearly going to take a decent amount of ti… https://t.co/vaezlkozi9 @fibrojedi - 1 hour ago well it was an interesting experiment. did squadron dungeon "brayflox's longstop". managed to complete it but defin… https://t.co/ta0xn8akjo @fibrojedi - 2 hours ago follow @fibrojedi follow me please share with others why not contribute? if you’d like to contribute a gaming or health guest post, please get in touch via twitter or facebook! please follow me home fibromyalgia lotro swtor shop contact me theme by colorlib powered by wordpress please support this website by adding us to your whitelist in your ad blocker. ads are what helps us bring you premium content! thank you! i use cookies to help fund my costs and track anonymous visitor data to help me write more content you'll actually read!. if you continue browsing we consider you accept the use of cookies. find out more got it! secured by miniorange