view full version of pw.com » best books authors publishers weekly advertisement new waves kevin nguyen. one world, $27 (304p) isbn 978-1-984855-23-7 buy this book amazon barnes & noble bookshop zeebra books nguyen’s stellar debut is a piercing assessment of young adulthood, the tech industry, and racism. margo, a 20-something black engineer, and lucas, a 23-year-old asian customer service rep, bond over the ingrained racism at their tech startup employer, a messaging app called nimbus, in new york in 2009. when margo’s strong opinions lead to her dismissal, she drunkenly convinces lucas to help her steal the usernames and passwords of nimbus’s users. margo soon regrets this, but nevertheless apparently leverages the data to land her and lucas jobs at phantom, a rival startup with an app that immediately deletes read text messages. margo dies in a car accident, and lucas is distraught and afraid, wondering if the accident was really an accident or something more sinister. he steals margo’s laptop and decides to contact jill, a struggling writer whose work margo spent hours providing feedback on. he and jill stumble into a relationship while phantom’s popularity among teenagers pushes lucas into a new role implementing a monitoring process contrary to the lofty ambition of the founders. lucas’s scramble to meet the growing intensity of his professional and personal lives, as well as his jealous conviction he knew margo best, leads to a series of missteps with rippling consequences. nguyen impressively holds together his overlapping plot threads while providing incisive criticism of privilege and a dose of sharp humor. the story is fast-paced and fascinating, but also deeply felt; the effect is a page-turner with some serious bite. (mar.) details reviewed on : 11/08/2019 release date: 03/10/2020 genre: fiction book - 978-1-984855-24-4 show other formats formats buy this book amazon barnes & noble bookshop zeebra books discover what to read next tip sheet more books you'd like advertisement more from publishers weekly writers to watch: spring 2020 15 books and authors hurt by the coronavirus pw picks: books of the week new coronavirus updates for the book biz about us| contact us| submission guidelines| subscriber services| advertising info| terms of use| privacy policy| do not sell| calls for info| editorial calendar| archives| press| faq © pwxyz, llc. all rights reserved. news obituaries book deals financial reporting page to screen bookselling awards & prizes publisher news comics business deals shows & events cooking people religion audio books manufacturing marketing pw tip sheet licensing book it bookexpo reviews fiction mystery/thriller sci-fi/fantasy/horror romance/erotica comics poetry inspirational fiction nonfiction lifestyle religion children's web exclusive booklife bestsellers bio & autobio children's frontlist fiction children's picture books comics fantasy food & drink hardcover frontlist fiction hardcover frontlist nonfiction history & poli-sci mass market frontlist mystery religion fiction religion nonfiction romance science fiction top 10 overall trade paper frontlist children's authors book news industry news authors profiles interviews why i write booklife announcements adult announcements children's announcements religion listings on-sale calendar galley talk digital devices copyright retailing conferences content / e-books apps digital marketplace the roundup international deals news trade shows frankfurt book fair london book fair new york rights fair sharjah international book fair translation database job zone job moves opinion shelftalker soapbox editorials common core open book x x loading...