home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads what miss mitchell saw: an illustrated celebration of how 19th-century astronomer maria mitchell blazed the way for women in science meet mary somerville: the brilliant woman for whom the word “scientist” was coined middle age and the art of self-renewal: an extraordinary letter from pioneering education reformer elizabeth peabody labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks figuring a book. by maria popova i have composed a book. it only took twelve years of brain pickings and the most beautiful, difficult, disorienting experience of my personal life. figuring (public library) explores the complexities, varieties, and contradictions of love, and the human search for truth, meaning, and transcendence, through the interwoven lives of several historical figures across four centuries — beginning with the astronomer johannes kepler, who discovered the laws of planetary motion, and ending with the marine biologist and author rachel carson, who catalyzed the environmental movement. stretching between these figures is a cast of artists, writers, and scientists — mostly women, mostly queer — whose public contribution has risen out of their unclassifiable and often heartbreaking private relationships to change the way we understand, experience, and appreciate the universe. among them are the astronomer maria mitchell, who paved the way for women in science; the sculptor harriet hosmer, who did the same in art; the journalist and literary critic margaret fuller, who sparked the feminist movement; and the poet emily dickinson. emanating from these lives are larger questions about the measure of a good life and what it means to leave a lasting mark of betterment on an imperfect world: are achievement and acclaim enough for happiness? is genius? is love? weaving through the narrative is a set of peripheral figures — ralph waldo emerson, charles darwin, elizabeth barrett browning, herman melville, frederick douglass, caroline herschel, nathaniel hawthorne, walt whitman — and a tapestry of themes spanning music, feminism, the history of science, the rise and decline of religion, and how the intersection of astronomy, poetry, and transcendentalist philosophy fomented the environmental movement. long ago, a kindly interviewer asked me why i routinely declined offers for the types of easy, marketable books i am frequently approached about doing. i told him (please suspend judgment: i was in my twenties) that i had no interest in putting into the world a book that has the shelf life of a banana. i hope figuring has the shelf life of a shelf. here is the prelude — chapter 0 of 29: all of it — the rings of saturn and my father’s wedding band, the underbelly of the clouds pinked by the rising sun, einstein’s brain bathing in a jar of formaldehyde, every grain of sand that made the glass that made the jar and each idea einstein ever had, the shepherdess singing in the rila mountains of my native bulgaria and each one of her sheep, every hair on chance’s velveteen dog ears and marianne moore’s red braid and the whiskers of montaigne’s cat, every translucent fingernail on my friend amanda’s newborn son, every stone with which virginia woolf filled her coat pockets before wading into the river ouse to drown, every copper atom composing the disc that carried arias aboard the first human-made object to enter interstellar space and every oak splinter of the floor-boards onto which beethoven collapsed in the fit of fury that cost him his hearing, the wetness of every tear that has ever been wept over a grave and the sheen of the beak of every raven that has ever watched the weepers, every cell in galileo’s fleshy finger and every molecule of gas and dust that made the moons of jupiter to which it pointed, the dipper of freckles constellating the olive firmament of a certain forearm i love and every axonal flutter of the tenderness with which i love her, all the facts and figments by which we are perpetually figuring and reconfiguring reality — it all banged into being 13.8 billion years ago from a single source, no louder than the opening note of beethoven’s fifth symphony, no larger than the dot levitating over the small i, the i lowered from the pedestal of ego. how can we know this and still succumb to the illusion of separateness, of otherness? this veneer must have been what the confluence of accidents and atoms known as dr. martin luther king, jr., saw through when he spoke of our “inescapable network of mutuality,” what walt whitman punctured when he wrote that “every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you.” one autumn morning, as i read a dead poet’s letters in my friend wendy’s backyard in san francisco, i glimpse a fragment of that atomic mutuality. midsentence, my peripheral vision — that glory of instinct honed by millennia of evolution — pulls me toward a miraculous sight: a small, shimmering red leaf twirling in midair. it seems for a moment to be dancing its final descent. but no — it remains suspended there, six feet above ground, orbiting an invisible center by an invisible force. for an instant i can see how such imperceptible causalities could drive the human mind to superstition, could impel medieval villagers to seek explanation in magic and witchcraft. but then i step closer and notice a fine spider’s web glistening in the air above the leaf, conspiring with gravity in this spinning miracle. neither the spider has planned for the leaf nor the leaf for the spider — and yet there they are, an accidental pendulum propelled by the same forces that cradle the moons of jupiter in orbit, animated into this ephemeral early-morning splendor by eternal cosmic laws impervious to beauty and indifferent to meaning, yet replete with both to the bewildered human consciousness beholding it. we spend our lives trying to discern where we end and the rest of the world begins. we snatch our freeze-frame of life from the simultaneity of existence by holding on to illusions of permanence, congruence, and linearity; of static selves and lives that unfold in sensical narratives. all the while, we mistake chance for choice, our labels and models of things for the things themselves, our records for our history. history is not what happened, but what survives the shipwrecks of judgment and chance. some truths, like beauty, are best illuminated by the sidewise gleam of figuring, of meaning-making. in the course of our figuring, orbits intersect, often unbeknownst to the bodies they carry — intersections mappable only from the distance of decades or centuries. facts crosshatch with other facts to shade in the nuances of a larger truth — not relativism, no, but the mightiest realism we have. we slice through the simultaneity by being everything at once: our first names and our last names, our loneliness and our society, our bold ambition and our blind hope, our unrequited and part-requited loves. lives are lived in parallel and perpendicular, fathomed nonlinearly, figured not in the straight graphs of “biography” but in many-sided, many-splendored diagrams. lives interweave with other lives, and out of the tapestry arise hints at answers to questions that raze to the bone of life: what are the building blocks of character, of contentment, of lasting achievement? how does a person come into self-possession and sovereignty of mind against the tide of convention and unreasoning collectivism? does genius suffice for happiness, does distinction, does love? two nobel prizes don’t seem to recompense the melancholy radiating from every photograph of the woman in the black laboratory dress. is success a guarantee of fulfillment, or merely a promise as precarious as a marital vow? how, in this blink of existence bookended by nothingness, do we attain completeness of being? there are infinitely many kinds of beautiful lives. so much of the beauty, so much of what propels our pursuit of truth, stems from the invisible connections — between ideas, between disciplines, between the denizens of a particular time and a particular place, between the interior world of each pioneer and the mark they leave on the cave walls of culture, between faint figures who pass each other in the nocturne before the torchlight of a revolution lights the new day, with little more than a half-nod of kinship and a match to change hands. figuring arrives on february 5, 2019. you can pre-order it from powell’s, amazon, and other booksellers. cover design by the brilliant peter mendelsund. read more excerpts from the book here. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published november 1, 2018 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2018/11/01/figuring/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under bookscharles darwincultureelizabeth barrett browningelizabeth peabodyemily dickinsonfiguringfrederick douglassharriet hosmerherman melvillejohannes keplerlovemargaret fullermaria mitchellnathaniel hawthornerachel carsonralph waldo emersonsophia peabodywalt whitman view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.