engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field latest in entertainment sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 3h ago view why 'second life' developer linden lab gave up on its vr spin-off 3h ago view films won’t have to screen in theaters to qualify for this year's golden globes 4h ago view staying social when you’re forced to isolate 6h ago view image credit: films won’t have to screen in theaters to qualify for this year's golden globes other award shows could make similar changes to adjust for covid-19. christine fisher, @cfisherwrites 4h ago comments 49 shares share tweet share sponsored links robyn beck via getty images with movie theaters closing amid the coronavirus pandemic, studios are sending theatrical releases to streaming or skipping theater reveals altogether. that's forcing the entire industry to adapt, and today, the hollywood foreign press association (hfpa) announced that it will temporarily consider films for the golden globe awards even if they don't first screen in a theater. producers and studios must still prove that they had a "bona fide theatrical release" planned in los angeles between march 15th and april 30th, the hollywood reporter notes. distributors must still set a date for an official screening, but they can send a dvd screener or screening link to hfpa members. the hfpa will also consider, at least temporarily, films released via streaming services and cable -- before they had to be released by pay-per-view services or theaters. hfpa says it will reassess and may extend the temporary changes beyond april 30th. other awards will likely follow suit. the academy of motion picture arts and sciences is considering changes to oscars eligibility, and it is expected to announce its decision following a meeting on april 14th. universal is now releasing movies in homes and theaters on the same day. pixar's onward arrived on disney+ just weeks after its theatrical release, and paramount is sending films straight to netflix. film festivals, including sxsw, are considering how they too might adapt, and of course, no one knows how long these measures will be necessary. in this article: art, av, awards, coronavirus, covid-19, eligibility, entertainment, film, films, golden globes, hfpa, internet, movies, oscars, release, streaming, the academy, theaters, theatrical release all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments 49 shares share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr