video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map finance finance digitization of assets is altering companies' competitive advantages and why frictionless payment methods have to become the norm. imran tariq | 4 min read senate passes $2 trillion coronavirus relief bill landmark measure includes checks for americans and small-business loans. ben winck | 3 min read how to deal with the economic impact of the coronavirus make a plan for managing your money during this pandemic. ben angel | 1 min read yelp adds gofundme donation button for struggling local businesses look for the "donate" option on the web and in the app to help support restaurant, nightlife, beauty and fitness operators. stephanie mlot | 2 min read gofundme creates small business relief initiative for companies affected by coronavirus is your business (or a business you love) struggling? help it through this tough time with a gofundme. entrepreneur staff | 3 min read more from this topic funding the rise of alternative venture capital a new age of startup investing has arisen amid the demands of entrepreneurs, and it is altering the traditional venture capital model as we know it. tristan pollock | 12 min read crisis management emergency plans for riding out the financial storm five immediate, actionable steps for ensuring your business stays afloat despite chaotic times. ben angel | 5 min read crisis management 7 investment strategies to follow during a crisis keep things diverse and low-risk, among other crucial guidance. oliver isaacs | 4 min read finance minimize the financial impact of covid-19 through effective negotiation managing at-risk contracts will take discipline, mindfulness and commitment to a vision that extends beyond this moment. brian buck | 5 min read webinars free webinar | today at 12 pm est: weathering the storm as a small-business owner join us as we answer the myriad of questions and concerns complicating everyday business during this historic pandemic. mark j. kohler | 2 min read finance 3 ways alternate lending is driving the future of finance it's a gold mine that's changing the rules of finance and opening up new opportunities. pritom das | 4 min read money coronavirus and a looming recession: how to raise capital in uncertain times here's how to raise capital when things get challenging. alex gold | 6 min read personal finance this budgeting app makes your personal finances simple save more and meet your financial goals with help from wallet. entrepreneur store | 2 min read news and trends why recession can lead to reinvention there is cause for economic concern amid the coronavirus outbreak, but young business owners are ready. daniel priestley | 3 min read finance can you spot the differences on the revamped 2020 form w-4? withholding allowances are absent on the new version of form w-4. mike kappel | 7 min read 1 2 3 4 ... 277 company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account