skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources finance how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank february 21, 2020 by miranda marquit 2 comments we all make money mistakes. even "nationally recognized financial experts." gather round, children, and let me tell you the story of my botched debt consolidation. it's no secret that, when my ex … continue reading about how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank how i (don’t) budget — all about my spending plan january 27, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment i'm asked constantly about how i budget. i kinda don't. this gal is all about the spending plan. a long time ago, i decided that i didn't like to budget. there's a lot to unpack with the … continue reading about how i (don’t) budget — all about my spending plan more money, more choices january 13, 2020 by miranda marquit 3 comments we hear a lot about how our choices impact our money. but we don't often talk about how more money can actually mean more options. make good financial choices and you'll get rich. simple, … continue reading about more money, more choices 5 money lessons my son learned from our latest car-buying adventure december 16, 2019 by miranda marquit leave a comment when you think of teaching money lessons for teens, you probably don't think of dragging them through the car-buying process. but that's exactly what i did. i'm not talking about taking the boy … continue reading about 5 money lessons my son learned from our latest car-buying adventure freelance income goals — why they’re not for me november 25, 2019 by miranda marquit 2 comments we hear a lot about setting freelance income goals and other income goals. they aren't my thing. here's why. working in the world of online financial content often comes with its own fomo. after … continue reading about freelance income goals — why they’re not for me let’s talk about healthcare costs — and privilege october 20, 2019 by miranda marquit 1 comment healthcare costs have been on the rise for decades and even with insurance, it can be tough to get access to the care needed. a few days ago, i went to the eye doctor for an exam. one of the … continue reading about let’s talk about healthcare costs — and privilege go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 52 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com