welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! published on: aug 20, 2019 by nina huntemann 7049 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i am thrilled to announce the 10 finalists for the fourth annual edx prize for exceptional contributions in online teaching and learning! the edx prize celebrates the contributions and innovations of educators in the edx community, and amplifies the powerful role that online learning plays in the transformation of education today. last year, in boston at the edx global forum, university of queensland professors blake... read more about congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! learning flexibly and enriching his on campus experience: meet youssouf published on: jun 18, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 2308 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we spoke with youssouf, a third-year undergraduate student in economics and management at the louvain school of management (lsm), about his experience learning on edx. anything you’d like to share about your experience with edx and how it has helped to advance your studies? i discovered louvainx moocs on edx when i found it too difficult to find time to go to class. at that... read more about learning flexibly and enriching his on campus experience: meet youssouf transitioning from a ‘teacher-centric’ to a ‘student-centric’ classroom through digital learning published on: apr 23, 2019 by iim bangalore, pc narayan 1620 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post “(technology) is not making teaching obsolete. if anything, it is making the craft of teaching more important” … the economist, 22nd july 2017 it all began in november, 2014 when i attended the edx global forum in boston. all through the dreary eighteen-hour flight from bangalore (where i live and work) to boston, i was restless and unsure, perhaps even skeptical, about moocs and the... read more about transitioning from a ‘teacher-centric’ to a ‘student-centric’ classroom through digital learning 5 new professional certificate programs: fintech, innovation, entrepreneurship and more published on: may 22, 2018 by justine goulart 7898 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post why this mit professor wants to help everyone learn basic economics published on: aug 04, 2017 by jonathan gruber 5347 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this post originally ran on mit’s office of digital learning blog and is authored by jonathan gruber, ford professor of economics, mit. i’m excited to announce the launch of a new course on edx that covers introductory microeconomics. i’ve wanted to do a course like this for years. i have always found economics provides a terrific way to think about the world. economics principles explain so much of what... read more about why this mit professor wants to help everyone learn basic economics professional certificate programs: delivering real job impact and critical skills you need to stand out published on: apr 25, 2017 by anant agarwal 11950 views 2 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post today, we are proud to announce the launch of professional certificate programs, the latest offering to further our mission to increase access to education that today’s global, connected learner demands. professional certificate programs are a series of in-demand courses designed to build or advance critical skills for a specific career. created by industry leaders and top universities, professional certificate programs help develop the skills and... read more about professional certificate programs: delivering real job impact and critical skills you need to stand out project managers are in-demand in 2017 published on: jan 18, 2017 by leonie fernandes 20385 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post job opportunities for project managers continue to grow at a rate of 1.5 million opportunities per year. whether you work in information technology, healthcare, manufacturing, finance, energy, construction or business services – all of these industries are in need of project management talent. increasing complexity of business operations and global market places are demanding faster, better, cheaper solutions for clients that meet ever-increasing expectations of performance. ... read more about project managers are in-demand in 2017 edx welcomes the world bank group published on: jan 10, 2017 by alice randall 5643 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are honored to announce that world bank group, a vital source of financial and technical assistance to developing countries around the world, has joined edx. the world bank group (wbg) is dedicated to innovating the way knowledge is shared around the world and, in 2016, it launched the open learning campus to provide access to all of its learning offerings and expertise. “the vision... read more about edx welcomes the world bank group entrepreneurship and business management micromasters programs to advance your career published on: dec 28, 2016 by justine goulart 6427 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post why study business? aside from business being the most popular field of study worldwide, particularly at the graduate level, gaining foundational business skills gives you the opportunity to advance your career in a variety of different companies and industries and in a variety of different roles, from accounting and finance, to marketing and advertising. also, salary expectations for those with a business degree rank the third... read more about entrepreneurship and business management micromasters programs to advance your career 3 personal finance courses to improve your life published on: oct 26, 2016 by monil shah 21740 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post let warren buffett inspire you to take control of your finances today we all want to succeed in life, whether it be academically, romantically, professionally or all of the above. and, our finances are integral to success in all areas of life. however, according to the s&p global finlit survey, only 33 percent of adults worldwide are financially literate. this leaves out about 3.5 billion adults globally,... read more about 3 personal finance courses to improve your life page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close