u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost style & beauty. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition finds zone 1 bring the outdoors in with these helpful plant delivery services zone 2 how to improve your work-from-home space when you don’t have a desk from sandals to slippers, here are the best shoes to snag on sale from zappos bored? take a stab at these beginner embroidery kits. everlane is now bundling 2-packs of popular loungewear pieces for as low as $50 let’s cut the crap: are bidets actually better than toilet paper? 20 low-effort closet organization finds for all your small-space problems delivery date now you don’t even have to touch someone for your takeout or food delivery the best online grocery delivery services to have on hand where to stock up on wine, beer and alcohol while social distancing without going broke zone 3 everything you need to cut your own hair at home, from shears to clippers minor trims and bangs touch-ups are fairly easy to do on your own — with the right tools and technique. looking for an at-home activity? take an online class for fun. need to fill your time while social distancing? online courses will keep you from reaching for the roku remote. candles are the only thing that makes sense anymore by the look of it, we're all lighting up to relieve stress and anxiety these days. the nordstrom spring sale just started. here's what's worth buying. right now, you can get up to 40% off from brands like free people, levi's and madewell. here's how to make your next bath relaxing af these relaxing bath products will be there for your next soak. we'd power walk to this adidas sale where almost everything is 30% off working from home? working out at home? now's your chance to get loungewear and sneakers for 30% off at adidas. the best finds for a night in now that anthropologie’s offering 25% off everything put on your pajamas, slide into your slippers and bundle up in a blanket: anthropologie's offering 25% off everything. we found slippers on sale at nordstrom, because nobody sees your feet on a video chat slide into these slippers and sandals that are perfect for your work-from-home commute. in news you deserve: sephora has free shipping. here's what we recommend stocking up on. usually you’d have to spend at least $50 to get free shipping on these self-care and skin care finds. this is everlane's first-ever sale, technically the brand has changed its tune on whether or not it'll offer sales. nordstrom rack is having a sitewide sale with free shipping save on athleisure and spring essentials from your favorite brands like madewell, nike and more. we've never seen a sitewide nordstrom sale like this before you've probably never seen a nordstrom sale like this before. we found fun games you can get on amazon for a day in including the highly anticipated nintendo switch edition of animal crossing. get a piece of this: the 15 best puzzles on amazon under $15 you'll definitely want a piece of this: here are the best puzzles on amazon, from family-friendly ones to others with thousands of pieces. tbh, this sex toy sale is excellently timed for social distancing it might be time to take things into your own hands — literally. good news, parents: 'frozen 2' is now on disney plus head "into the unknown" with a little help from elsa, anna and olaf. the lotions our shopping editors are using to soothe their over-washed hands try these editor-approved lotions for dry skin, flaky hands and cracked knuckles. is daily harvest worth it? our shopping experts put it to the test. we had our shopping experts test the popular frozen fruit and veggie-based recipes. paid for by daily harvest 10 work-from-home office setup ideas for peak productivity you've got your laptop, desk and chair all ready — but these are the practical finds that might just make you more productive. no gym? don't sweat it. here's everything you need for an effective at-home workout. here's the equipment you need to exercise at home on the regular. see more follow us! icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. newsletter sign up an essential daily guide to achieving the good life subscribe to our lifestyle email. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. huffpost offers save online with coupons and promo codes from these featured retailers. jc penney dick's sporting goods groupon famous footwear petsmart sephora urban outfitters nordstrom home depot american eagle newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost style & beauty. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.