skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles justin tadlock · march 25, 2020 · 9 comments there is a popular saying, which has been used in several memes, among my developer and remote-working friend groups. it goes something like the following: government and doctors: practice physical distancing during this pandemic. remote workers: i’ve been preparing my whole life for this moment. i got this. the truth is that we don’t “got this,” at least i know i don’t. while practicing physical distancing during the covid-19 pandemic, it is those little moments that you do not think you will miss that suddenly become important. every saturday, i awake around 6 or 6:30 a.m. i go through my normal routine and get dressed for a morning drive into the city. my home is in a quiet area in rural alabama. i am a millennial living within a neighborhood of mostly baby boomers. for the most part, it is an ideal place for remote work. few people bother me, and i can tend to my animals and get my work done in peace. however, it is not exactly the most socially invigorating place in the world. those saturday mornings are important. assuming i have no other social plans for the week, it is my one chance to get out into the world. i stop by the local co-op, pick up any feed or seed i need, and chat with the people there about the farming season or the weather — mostly the weather. i drop into hidden treasures, a flea market, and talk with a seller who shares an interest in finding old dvds, vhs tapes, and laserdiscs. i grab a sandwich at subway and am greeted by the indian-american manager who learned my name on my first visit years ago. he asks about my family. i ask how his family is doing. these fleeting moments are almost forgettable. they are routine. run-of-the-mill. when they are happening, you do not think about them. however, when they are gone, there is a void remaining that is hard to fill. yes, i have been practicing physical distancing for over a decade, at least to some degree. that makes those small moments where i interact with others in person crucial to my mental health. this saturday, i will once again head into the city after a hiatus. however, my trip will be different. this time, i will be gathering necessities for myself and some of my elderly neighbors who want to avoid the public for a while. the trip will be quick. some of the places i normally visit are closed. my subway meal will be carryout. even after a couple of weeks, and feeling like i was prepared for this moment, i am still coming to grips with the world as it is now. staying strong as a community the wordpress community, the people, have put up a strong front. bloggers have written posts on remote work. developers, designers, and others have willingly shared their knowledge with others. companies are offering discounts to help ease the burden for those looking to begin a shop or blog online. yes, our community will get through this, and we will be stronger for it. however, it is ok for us to share our vulnerabilities during these uncertain times. ultimately, this community is not about software. it is about people. the software is the way we connect. it is a tool that we program, design, and evangelize. we do it for ourselves. we do it for millions of others to have a voice online. but, it is always about people. sometimes, people need to know that others in our community are struggling. this is a collective pain that we are working through. remote work does not always mean physical distancing from everything and every one of the outside world. many of us may have a bit of a head-start on staying put at home for hours on end, but we are also dealing with a new reality every day. showing strength is good, but sharing our stories of struggle is just as important. for some of us, that weekly trip into the city plays a vital role in our well-being. others are dealing with children who would normally be in school or daycare. kids can be disruptive, even when you have the best-laid plans and every hour of their day mapped out. even for us remote workers, life is a little out of balance now. it is ok to admit that. if you are running a wordpress business, it is ok for you to provide a little more flexibility for your workers who are at home. many of them will need it. it is not time to break down. it is time to find a new balance in our current environments. that may mean starting up a family board game night. it may mean making sure that you set up a video chat with those loved ones you have been too busy to call in several months. maybe you will start taking a daily walk for better health. it might also be time to set up wordpress blogs for your children as part of their education. some of these new things may and probably should become routine, especially that last one. do not become overwhelmed if you feel like you should be handling this situation better because you have practice at remote work. hop over to your personal wordpress blog. you may have to dust that thing off; some of you have not used it in a while. write about the things you are struggling with. share them with the community and find support among others. post about your experiences. tell us about your tough days and those small wins that are helping you get through this. for me, it is having my dad call to check in for the third time this week, and it is only wednesday. share this: click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on telegram (opens in new window) click to share on whatsapp (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) like this: like loading... posted in opinion 9 comments curtis mchale march 25, 2020, 2:59 pm · reply feel the exact same way. i went out to starbucks on fridays and talked with all the retired guys about nothing in particular for a few hours. i didn’t realize how much i’d miss that until i didn’t have it for a week. i like talking to those guys for an hour. i also miss walking through the bookstore on those fridays and finding interesting treasures. engaging in discussions with the staff about what we’re reading and trading recommendations. sure i’m fine alone most of the time, but those days let me enter the weekend light and “clean” ready to engage with my family and let go of a week of work. loading... report justin tadlock march 25, 2020, 4:16 pm · reply thanks for sharing. that release, the purge of everything from the work week, is often necessary to enjoy the weekend. instead of my weekly trip this past saturday, i played a video game for an hour. then, i got up and planted a small garden bed, which helped me with getting out of my funk. loading... report jeroen rotty march 25, 2020, 3:14 pm · reply wow, this post brought tears to my eyes. thanks for writing this up justin, i hope we all meet soon on any wp meetup or wordcamp and that this is gone. stay safe. loading... report justin tadlock march 25, 2020, 4:23 pm · reply i imagine that our community will have a whole new appreciation for wordcamps and meetups in the coming year as we get past this blip in history. each connection we make will be just a little more special. a two-year gap between meeting old wordpress friends will mean folks have a lot of catching up to do. i know many in our community will be looking forward to it. loading... report bud kraus march 25, 2020, 6:09 pm · reply great post here justin as you usually do. i just had to say things a different way to those who have never worked remotely before. “a few things to do to survive the coronavirus crises – with a smile on your face” https://joyofwp.com/a-few-things-to-do-to-survive-the-coronavirus-crises/ loading... report harshit kasnia march 26, 2020, 8:22 am · reply justin you have posted awesome… :) corona virus, really very dangerous virus. whole world are suffering from this. i am from india and here situation is controlled.. 21 days lockdown in india. loading... report patty march 27, 2020, 2:39 pm · reply i just would love to never hear that now-slur ‘baby boomer’ again. loading... report justin tadlock march 27, 2020, 3:21 pm · reply baby boomer is not a slur, and the term was definitely not used in such a way in the post. it specifically refers to the generation of people born between the silent generation and generation x. loading... report henrico march 27, 2020, 5:06 pm · reply despite the threat of the coronavirus and staying indoors it’s giving me a lot of time to reflect. great post please be safe during this time. loading... report leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. join the discussion via emailget only replies to your comment, the best of the rest, as well as a daily recap of all comments on this post. no more than a few emails daily, which you can reply to/unsubscribe from directly from your inbox. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. %d bloggers like this: