skip to primary navigation skip to content skip to primary sidebar copyblogger start here blog podcast training certified writers my account login my.copyblogger search type in your keyword and press enter to search copyblogger.com:close search copyblogger... master this writing practice to find more loyal readers written by stefanie flaxman posted on march 4, 2020 tweet share share pin if you want to write about anything you’d like, as often as you’d like, there’s a place for that: your own website. it’s a modern privilege that gives writers the freedom to digitally publish their work publicly, with the potential to reach any reader with an internet connection. can you imagine going back in time and telling that to someone who only wrote on paper? someone whose only readers were those in physical possession of their writing? we’re so lucky. how to find loyal readers but we may miss out on ways to spread our writing, because we’re not as accustomed to the practices our writer predecessors needed to use to find loyal readers. i want to show you how to seize more contemporary opportunities with classic grit. and the practice i’m going to talk about is guest posting. while i know you’ve heard the benefits of guest posting before, i don’t think it’s often discussed as a practice. a lot has to happen before more readers discover your writing, and one big obstacle blocks many internet-era writers … has our entitlement cup runneth over? since we’re so used to writing on our own sites, it’s natural to think our own style is acceptable on other sites. the misconception is that once you find a site that has an audience you want to connect with, you can offer that site a typical article you’d write and lock down a publishing spot on their editorial calendar. while it’s certainly possible to have that experience with guest posting, many large publications aren’t interested in publishing a post that would appear on your blog. instead, they may be interested in your expertise and point of view, but they need you to craft an article that honors their editorial standards and would appear on their blog. in order to work, pre-internet writers had to follow a publication’s editorial standards. they didn’t have the luxury of publishing whatever they wanted, whenever they wanted. they had to learn to trust an editor’s vision for their writing in order to get their articles in front of new people and find loyal readers. an example: monster truck racing for ladies i want to demonstrate how the practice of guest posting — or contributing to a publication other than your own — can help you both grow your audience and grow professionally. in this scenario, monster truck racing has recently surged in popularity among women. women can’t get enough information about monster truck competitions, so edith editor at cosmopolitan magazine gets a pitch from frank freelancer. frank regularly contributes to the monster truck times and runs his own blog, big wheel freaks, where he specifically writes about monster truck races. edith likes frank’s article idea, but she needs to educate him on the type of content that is the right fit for cosmopolitan. she’ll give him their writer guidelines so he can match the tone and style of his article to the publication’s specifications. since frank is a pro, he knows he needs to be flexible. he understands that cosmopolitan subscribers aren’t used to reading the usual content he writes for the monster truck times and big wheel freaks. if he wants to connect with cosmopolitan’s audience (which he does), he has to adapt his writing based on edith’s guidance. frank knows that working writers don’t always get to write exactly what they want, and he welcomes the opportunity to strengthen his creative muscles. plus, he understands that if cosmopolitan publishes his writing, he gains authority and validation as a trustworthy source of information. he has a chance to capture the attention of new people who aren’t familiar with his work and then direct them to his typical articles. if he didn’t view the situation with that attitude, edith wouldn’t be able to publish his article and she’d find another monster truck writer with more experience working for a professional publication. practice the process of guest posting so, as you can see, my view on guest posting is more involved than simply getting another website to agree to publish one of your articles. it’s a process of finding publications that are looking for what you offer and collaborating with them. in order to find more loyal readers with guest posting, you need to: build relationships learn and follow rules adapt your writing to become a regular contributor let’s look at each one … 1. build relationships the way two people connect and bond may look nothing like what another two people experience, so i think it’s best to view relationship-building as an art form with a variety of factors that are different for everyone. but that also makes the process a bit difficult to describe. first, accept that every relationship develops differently. you’ll rarely be able to duplicate something that worked for someone else and get the same results — your copycat version will seem forced and inauthentic. second, relationship-building needs you to detach from possible outcomes. for example, when you have an authentic interest in talking to a blogger whose site you enjoy, you’ll genuinely enjoy chatting with them in blog comments or having a quick email exchange. the experience of connection is the reward. on the other hand, if you contact someone because you want something from them, you’ll be preoccupied with getting that person to agree to your request. you might even feel entitled to their time and attention. your agenda is always more obvious than you realize — and it’s not attractive. connect with people you want to meet without needing anything from them. if a relationship grows naturally, somewhere down the line you’ll probably both be happy to help each other out. 2. learn and follow rules the first “rule” on your radar should be familiarizing yourself with what certain publications are looking for, or not looking for … now’s a good time to mention that copyblogger does not currently review unsolicited guest post pitches. however, many publications do review them and display guidelines on their sites to help you shape your submissions. those guidelines aren’t arbitrary. they are what the publication wants you to submit to optimize your chances of getting the “yes” response that you’d like, so study and follow the instructions. you want to be intimately familiar with any site you pitch to (like how frank freelancer knew edith editor would be looking for a monster truck writer), so even if pitch guidelines aren’t available, you’ll naturally know how to grab their attention. for instance, some publications prefer receiving a full article for consideration while others want to see an outline before the author finishes writing. regardless of your publication’s preference, demonstrate that you can offer their readers a new perspective, but that you’re also a professional who will meet their standards. pitching to smaller publications is a great way to practice guest posting. many won’t have as many rules as larger sites, so getting your writing published is sometimes a quicker process. even though their audiences may contain fewer people, those individuals may be highly engaged with the site’s content, which helps you initiate new relationships and invite those readers back to your site. 3. adapt your writing to become a regular contributor it’s definitely an accomplishment to have a site other than your own publish your writing. but guest posting to find loyal readers will be the most beneficial to your writing career if you aim to become a regular contributor — to one site or several. guest posting can help influence your area of expertise, too. keep learning about the topics that the sites you’ve contributed to want to share with their readers. for example, frank freelancer might enjoy writing for cosmopolitan and continue to perform detailed research on relevant subjects for the magazine. he’ll treat his cosmopolitan articles with great care and submit his best work. as you grow a long-term relationship with a publication, they’ll get to know you better as well and appreciate your professional attributes, such as meeting deadlines and submitting drafts without typos. when you contribute value over time, the publication will also be much more willing to help you out with a favor, if you ever need one. finding loyal readers requires the same persistence writers have needed since the birth of the first writing instrument … but i think those ancient writers would have preferred to have access to new audiences on the internet. don’t squander your upper hand. copyblogger’s content writing masterclass starting monday, march 23, 2020, stefanie flaxman will be hosting a live learning experience called the copyblogger content writing masterclass. this is a live, interactive, 5-day workshop that is built for all types of content creators who want to build an audience of interested prospects. register for the masterclass tweet share share pin filed under: blogging, content marketing, writing stefanie flaxman stefanie flaxman is copyblogger’s editor-in-chief. she teaches better writing, disciplined creativity, and non-sleazy marketing. get more from stefanie on youtube. reader interactions primary sidebar notice: javascript is required for this content. you might also like: do you make these 7 mistakes when you write? the wise content marketer’s guide to sensible seo 3 important seo tips you can start using today the 5 things every (great) marketing story needs quit annoying your audience! take 3 simple steps to focus your content see all popular posts → previous article: how to build remarkable products with ramit sethi next article: do you make these 7 mistakes when you write? reader comments (5) ravi chahar says may 10, 2017 at 8:04 am hey stefanie, guest posting is one of the finest practices anyone can adopt to become a better writer. you can showcase your writing skills on your own blog but once you go out in front of a different audience, it can be really disappointing. not every blog has the same writing standard like yours. the reputed blogs have set a standard which should be matched. i try my best to craft an article which can drag an attention of many. the biggest benefit of guest posting is building human bonds. thanks for this wonderful article. ~ravi calum says may 11, 2017 at 9:30 am guest posting is so crucial to your writing development – but it isn’t easy and neither is link building in general. like you say, it can be beneficial to start with pitching to smaller publications to find your feet and then working your way up the ladder. i really enjoyed this article, stefanie. alex says may 11, 2017 at 10:00 am thank you for the post! i blog for enjoying my time. i love it & do it for my own passion. marcia yudkin says may 13, 2017 at 9:25 pm this advice is excellent as far as it goes, but there is another essential element besides the rules written down by editors for potential contributors. this is the *voice* of a blog or publication. in my earlier career as a writer for top magazines (including cosmopolitan, psychology today and the new york times magazine), i learned that it was crucial to read many issues of a publication and get a feel for the attitudes, vocabulary, tone and approach they were looking for. without this, following the rules led to rejection slips. with it, editors were delighted. for example, one article i was specifically assigned got rejected because it was “too earnest.” this publication wanted me to take an ironic, superior and somewhat snobbish tone on my topic. porting this to today’s world of guest blogging, this means understanding whether a particular blog wants densely packed how-to information, emotional epiphanies, oh-so-cool commentaries or vulnerable revelations – or something that matches their favorite writers. these differences do not always come out in the posting guidelines, only in the blog itself. stefanie flaxman says may 15, 2017 at 11:54 am what an excellent point to elaborate on, marcia! thanks for sharing your experience. 🙂 this article's comments are closed. get free access to proven marketing training. notice: javascript is required for this content. copyright © 2006–2020 copyblogger media llc contact comment policy privacy policy cookie policy refund policy terms