 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog the firstsiteguide blog welcome to the firstsiteguide blog where you will find everything you need to know about blogging. it doesn’t matter if you’re an experienced blogger or a total beginner, we cover topics of all levels. this blog also includes extensive sections about wordpress. how to move your blog from livejournal to wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: march 24th, 2020 last updated: march 24th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 0 comment livejournal is a simple social networking service that steps into content management waters. this platform had been created for its founder, brad fitzpatrick, to easily share his activities with all of his high school friends. that happened back in 1999, so you should consider the fact there was still no facebook and instagram available. although […] the best podcast hosting sites 2020: definitive guide for beginners by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: march 19th, 2020 last updated: march 19th, 2020) posted in: blogging 0 comment if you want to launch your podcasts and share your views with the world but don’t know which podcast hosting service to choose, you have come to the right place. we understand that finding a host for your podcast isn’t always easy. every podcast and niche require a different approach, something that cannot be promised […] the best month to month web hosting plans in 2020 by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: march 13th, 2020 last updated: march 26th, 2020) posted in: blogging 0 comment web hosting services provide the foundation for your website – they offer the tools and technologies to keep sites up-and-running, while also helping visitors access them. as of may 2019, there are 154,608,076 domains worldwide, while the total number of web hosting providers is 338,561 – this showcases the growth and potential for this market. […] 50 best freelance jobs websites to find work and make money in 2020 by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: march 6th, 2020 last updated: march 17th, 2020) posted in: blogging 4 comments if you are looking for online freelance jobs to make quick money and to avoid the dreaded daily commute to work, you have come to the right place! freelancing can help you form long-lasting relationships with clients who can even hire you for the long term for continuous steady work. as a freelancer, you can […] voice search statistics, facts, and trends (2020) by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: february 27th, 2020 last updated: february 28th, 2020) posted in: blogging 6 comments voice search has quickly become an important part of seo, and it definitely won’t be going away. a vast number of consumers now use voice search to look for products and services online, as it’s much more convenient than typing. if you optimize your content for voice search, you’ll drive more traffic to your website […] how to move your blog from movable type and typepad to wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: february 24th, 2020 last updated: february 26th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 0 comment before there was wordpress, other content management systems had a chance to present their blogging options to the world. movable type and typepad were one of the first to try to capture the attention of aspiring bloggers. and even when wordpress came into the game, these two (technically three, but understand that movable type and […] the history of blogging – a complete chronology by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: february 21st, 2020 last updated: february 25th, 2020) posted in: blogging 6 comments blogging is an online journaling activity where writers share their opinions on a subject for personal or business reasons. it has come a long way since its inception in 1993 which can be concluded from the fact that researchers expect more than 31 million bloggers in the us by 2020, according to a recent study. […] how to move your blog from squarespace to wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: february 13th, 2020 last updated: february 13th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 0 comment we are all getting knee-deep into the 21st century. that means that the internet itself, as well as building web, is getting more complex. yet, the complexity allows creating tools that are tailored to beginners and people who know nothing about the technology behind it. because of all that, bloggers who decide to start their […] google search statistics, facts, and trends (2020) by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: january 14th, 2020 last updated: march 24th, 2020) posted in: blogging 2 comments google is the world’s largest search engine. there are some very remarkable statistics to go over when you’re looking at it from a broader perspective. the second most popular search engine on the market is its chinese competitor, baidu, which only accounts for a lesser share of the global search engine market. to understand the […] how to move your blog from weebly to wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: january 10th, 2020 last updated: february 19th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 0 comment new technology has allowed an average joe to get his five minutes of glory or to start his or her own business from any corner of the world. so, even if you have no idea how the internet works, you can still start your blog in the following few hours. while someone who wanted to […] blogging statistics, facts, and trends (2020) by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: november 12th, 2019 last updated: january 27th, 2020) posted in: blogging 13 comments if you’re serious about blogging, you should take the time to look at the blogging stats regularly. without having a clear insight into the performance of your blog posts, you can’t know whether or not there’s a need for some adjustments. however, you should also check the general blogging stats available online, and not just […] how to move your blog from wix to wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: october 30th, 2019 last updated: february 19th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 2 comments truth to be told, wix is a stunning website builder that seems perfectly tailored to beginners’ needs. it looks beautiful, comes with some great premade designs that will help you jump start your first site, and it is actually relatively easy to handle & manage. we are sure that you have already stumbled upon some wix commercials […] cyberbullying statistics, facts, and trends (2020) by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: october 28th, 2019 last updated: march 15th, 2020) posted in: blogging 4 comments whether we like it or not, bullying has been around since the beginning of civilization. it hasn’t truly changed its form over those years, it’s always the stronger ones who prey upon the weak, but it has evolved with the rise of technology. a new form of bullying, namely cyberbullying, has become a growing problem […] how to move your blog from tumblr to wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: august 8th, 2019 last updated: february 10th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 6 comments in the modern world, starting a personal blog or a simple website is quite easy. there’s no need for coding, and you actually don’t have to have any experience with web development. you just need the will to start a blog and a bit of browsing in order to find the platform you will like […] how to reset a wordpress site – beginners guide by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: april 18th, 2019 last updated: august 8th, 2019) posted in: wordpress 2 comments have you ever been in a situation where you needed to start over your wordpress site? although wordpress allows everyone to easily start a blog, creating that perfect site you have been dreaming of isn’t so straightforward as you may have imagined. you will have to spend some time messing around with wordpress until you […] the difference between a blog title and a blog domain name (url) by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: january 31st, 2019 last updated: october 29th, 2019) posted in: blogging 1 comment before you start working on a new blog, you will probably want to name it. while you can spend weeks on developing an idea and even sketching some of the first concepts that will form the entire blog, it is not really advisable to put a blog online without having a name for it. but […] how to redirect users in wordpress by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: august 8th, 2018 last updated: december 12th, 2019) posted in: wordpress 2 comments redirections are a standard part of websites, plugins, and themes. some are happening right in front of eyes, and you might not be even aware what’s going on in the back. although redirections are usually left for developers, we are going to show you several tips that will let you: redirect users after successful login […] 8 unknown facts wordpress.com may not fit serious bloggers by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: july 18th, 2018 last updated: march 20th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 2 comments congratulations! you have decided to start a blog, and we are happy to welcome you to the broad family of millions of bloggers spread literally all around the world. making a decision to start a blog might have been easy, but this is the point where the real decision-making process will start to unfold. since […] make the best out of wordpress tags by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: july 11th, 2018 last updated: december 17th, 2018) posted in: wordpress 1 comment similar to categories, tags are a way of grouping wordpress posts and pages. they are usually more specific than categories but are entirely optional. although you can easily decide not to use tags in your posts, most people in wordpress do tag their posts with at least one word which is the most relevant to the article […] 21 tips on how to speed up a wordpress blog by anya skrba and firstsiteguide team ( published on: july 4th, 2018 last updated: february 10th, 2020) posted in: wordpress 3 comments when browsing the internet, you probably don’t overthink website speed. if your internet connection is good enough, you probably have only two conclusions about each and every site regarding the speed – the site is or isn’t fast enough. and that’s how most of the internet users will see your wordpress website. even if it’s attractive […] page 1 of 9 1 2 3 … 9 next » blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.