newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close first time home buyers wondering if you should buy or rent? here are the pros and cons of bothreal estate two lists for two situations. jennifer billock yesterday this is the expense i never saw coming as a first-time homeownerreal estate here's how to budget for it. brittany anas mar 23, 2020 8 simple home improvement projects no one should skip before sellingreal estate paint, paint, paint. jon gorey mar 22, 2020 6 overdone kitchen trends that buyers are tired ofreal estate according to real estate experts. sarah magnuson mar 20, 2020 what is included in the square footage of a house?real estate the short answer: it varies. kate streit mar 14, 2020 4 things first-time homeowners tend to overlookreal estate according to real homeowners on reddit. jamie birdwell-branson mar 11, 2020 5 things i had to google the first month of being a homeownerreal estate owning a home does not come without its challenges. stephanie trovato mar 9, 2020 we talked to 4 single women about why they bought their own homesreal estate single women are buying more homes than single men. brittany anas mar 8, 2020 how to make the most of an open house in 2020real estate while you could browse homes online and do virtual tours, a good ol’ fashioned open house still has plenty of merits and is an efficient way to browse properties that are for sale in your area. brittany anas mar 6, 2020 the 5 best pieces of mortgage advice one real estate agent has ever heardreal estate hold your horses on a career change, for one. chelsea greenwood lassman feb 20, 2020 5 ways to save money on a new house, according to contractorsreal estate here's how to start renovating wisely. sarah magnuson feb 18, 2020 nobody's buying fixer-uppers anymore, but here's why they shouldreal estate so long, turn-key properties. jamie birdwell-branson feb 16, 2020 5 resources that'll help you scrape together a down payment fasterreal estate believe it or not, it's doable. sarah magnuson feb 10, 2020 contractors reveal their 4 biggest pet peeves about working on your new housereal estate don't be the "confused homeowner." sarah magnuson feb 7, 2020 7 things you should never store in your atticreal estate according to home experts. grace cassidy feb 1, 2020 5 things every “adult” bathroom has, according to home stagers real estate nail the “wow, now that’s a bathroom!” aesthetic. brittany anas jan 31, 2020 why investing in condos can be better than renting, according to expertsreal estate build those assets. jamie birdwell-branson jan 16, 2020 15 of our best tips for buying a condoreal estate plus, a checklist to keep handy while you're hunting. jamie birdwell-branson jan 12, 2020 a new study suggests more gen zers will be homeowners by 2035real estate keep buying avocado toast, millennials. grace cassidy jan 11, 2020 what is a buyer's agent, and do you need one?real estate everything you need to know about working with a buyer's agent. gina vaynshteyn dec 12, 2019 3 warning signs you never want to ignore, according to home inspectorsreal estate bring in the pros if you see any of these things in your home. brittany anas dec 11, 2019 6 things home maintenance experts say you should stop doing right nowreal estate put the windex down, and walk away from your granite countertop. chelsea greenwood lassman dec 10, 2019 everything you need to know about contingent and pending home salesreal estate let's break down this real estate lingo. gina vaynshteyn dec 5, 2019 why i regret buying an older homereal estate the problem with old houses, i learned, is that they are never not a project. sassafras lowrey dec 4, 2019 paying just $90 more a month on your mortgage could save you thousandsreal estate we're talking savings of more than $30,000. brittany anas nov 29, 2019 the absolute cheapest state to buy a house is...real estate the south is calling. gina vaynshteyn nov 27, 2019 these are the 50 things everyone should know about their homereal estate from air filters to zoning laws. lisa iannucci nov 14, 2019 your kitchen cabinets may be "expired"—along with these 4 other home featuresreal estate it's not just milk and mascara that goes bad. kate streit nov 9, 2019 6 target buys home maintenance experts swear by—and they're all under $15real estate lessen your chore load, prevent future headaches, and save a little cash, too? it's a win, win, win! brittany anas nov 1, 2019 psa: you don't need a perfect credit to buy a housereal estate don't let a good market pass you by! brittany anas oct 30, 2019 you may never feel "ready" to buy a home—here’s why that shouldn’t stop youreal estate “millennials may perceive home buying as more risky than previous generations because we were raised on infinite choice, frequent change, and came to age with a lot of financial volatility.” brittany anas oct 30, 2019 you don't always have to view a house before buying—here's whyreal estate sometimes you just have to take a deep breath and draw comfort from your own sense of knowing: "this is right for me." brittany anas oct 30, 2019 fyi: you don't actually need 20 percent down to buy a homereal estate plus, how to know if this myth is keeping you from buying a home. brittany anas oct 30, 2019 5 home trends real estate experts hate seeingreal estate plus: the math behind why. lambeth hochwald oct 26, 2019 5 easy-to-overlook things that can increase the value of your homereal estate the more appealing a home is on the market to the majority of buyers, the higher price it may fetch. megan johnson oct 23, 2019 surprise! split-level homes are becoming popular again—and i know whyreal estate they may be the mini-vans of the architectural world, but boy do they serve their purpose. elizabeth seward oct 20, 2019 why experts say you should never use the bathroom at an open housereal estate wait until you get to starbucks. megan johnson oct 19, 2019 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc