home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog rugged maniac 2017 – charleston april 28, 2017 by erin weiss 1 comment hey guys! guess what i did again??? i did the rugged maniac charleston again this year! mud runs are seriously one of my favorite things in the world to do and the rugged maniac always puts on a good race and such a fun atmosphere. it was at boone hall plantation again this year and they have such a great spot for this type of event. remember my post last year when i did … [read more...] 5 get fit tips for every day energy november 7, 2016 by erin weiss 6 comments this is a sponsored post written by me on behalf of clif bar & company. all opinions are 100% mine. are you stuck in a cubicle all day and just counting down the minutes until you can hit the gym and get your sweat on? do you hate that it seems like 70% of your awake hours are spent sitting at a computer sedentary? this is the life i live as well, but have found many … [read more...] home gym diy pegboard wall august 21, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment recently i broke down and bought myself a new toy. i bought a treadmill for my house! for all the days that i can't make it to the gym, or just feel like watching the bachelor while walking on the treadmill, i can now do that at home. yay! i also wanted to share this adorable diy pegboard wall i created for my home gym / workout room and it's so easy that anyone can do … [read more...] personal trainer insurance july 27, 2016 by erin weiss 1 comment looking for more information on personal trainer insurance to make sure your butt is covered if something happens??? you've come to the right spot! being a personal trainer is one of the most rewarding professions you can have. when a client comes to you in the beginning of their journey, you have the opportunity to completely change their life. there’s nothing more rewarding … [read more...] funny fitness images & funny quotes may 5, 2016 by erin weiss 1 comment here are my favorite funny fitness images and funny quotes for the week! enjoy and feel free to share! if you like these, make sure to check out: 101 gym quotes. … [read more...] we won the championships!! plus meet my new favorite water cooler! april 18, 2016 by erin weiss 1 comment okay so there's something i've been hiding from you guys lately. well two things actually. this wasn't intentional, it just hasn't come up in any of my recent posts but now i will share. i'm a champion and in love with a water cooler. did i just win the award for the most random sentence you've read today? i think i probably did. let me take a step back and … [read more...] cooper river bridge run 2016 review april 5, 2016 by erin weiss 1 comment good morning everyone!!! so this past weekend i completed my first cooper river bridge run! if you don't know what the cooper river bridge run is, it's probably the biggest event in charleston, sc every year. we have this absolutely beautiful cable-stayed bridge called the arthur ravenel jr. bridge that crosses over the cooper river. if you've ever been to charleston, … [read more...] rugged maniac 5k april 1, 2016 by erin weiss 2 comments if you've been reading live life active for a while now, you've seen me do tons of mud runs (warrior dash, rebel race, patriot challenge and more) because i absolutely love them, but now i've added one more to my belt. the rugged maniac! there's something about getting totally dirty and jumping through mud that a part of me just loves. i guess it brings back … [read more...] almost time for the bridge run & a sunsweet review april 1, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment this is a sponsored post written by me on behalf of sunsweet growers for izea. all opinions are 100% mine. hey everyone! hope you're doing well on this fabulous wednesday. it's beautiful weather here in charleston as of lately and i've been training a little bit for the charleston cooper river bridge run. it will be my first ever 10k race. i've done a ton of 5k races but never … [read more...] should i do cardio before or after weights? your questions answered! february 13, 2016 by erin weiss 4 comments the most common question i get asked is: should i do cardio before or after weights? when i first started working out, i would always try to get my cardio in before my weight session because, to be honest, i hated cardio and just wanted to get it over with. after i got more serious about working out and meeting my goals, i became more interested in what the most efficient … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in