subscribe by email rss life in leggings a healthy lifestyle blog home about contact family work out with me faqs press disclaimer recipes breakfast lunch snacks dinner & entrees desserts & sweets soups & stews drinks & smoothies vegetarian fitness cardio workouts circuit workouts nasm & study guides running & race recaps workout playlists weekly workouts sponsor reviews favorites friday favorites beauty health fitness blogging tutorials & videos dance highlights & faqs coffee talks travel orlando & florida detroit & michigan wedding fitness welcome to the fitness (favorites) page! here you will find fitness equipment, shoes, and activewear i love all in one place. currently loving… (my top 10 fitness products i continuously use.) • leggings/capris (obviously) you really can’t go wrong with a traditional black, bright, or even fun printed pair of leggings. just like i mentioned in a previous holiday gift guide, you want to stick to a pair of leggings with material that won’t go see-through during your squats and stretches. good pairs of fitness leggings usually run on the expensive side, and i’ve heard nothing but great things about lululemon wunder unders. (fabletics salar capri, lululemon wunder unders, reebok dance capri) popular/personal favorite brands include: lorna jane, reebok, lululemon, lucy, fabletics • polar ft60 fitness watch & heart rate monitor i have been wearing this watch during almost every workout since i received it september 2014. two things i wish it did was track my heart rate without a chest strap and track my speed and distance during runs. for general workouts, however, the ft60 is a great tool to measure calories burned, heart rate, and intensity! • lorna jane 2015 mnb diary/planner i was blown away at the response i got to this giveaway! i absolutely adore this active living diary and use it every single day. inside, you will find workouts (move), recipes and healthy eating tips (nourish), and inspirational quotes (believe) to get you through your days. there’s numerous writing prompts and places to take notes throughout it! i recommend getting this planner for anyone who currently lives or wants to get into living a happy, healthy, active lifestyle. • reebok skyscapes i am seriously obsessed with these shoes. i personally own three pairs (it’s fine) and even got to attend the launch party for the release! they aren’t really made for you to wear during workouts, but rather to and from the gym. i often wear mine around town while running errands, and i love the casual sneaker look that is a step up from gym shoes! • quality water bottles those living a healthy and fit lifestyle would appreciate a good water bottle. i mentioned this tervis water bottle in my recent holiday gift guide for her and am sharing it again here. it’s seriously the best. i have also been eying the groove insulated camelbak water bottle that has a built-in filter. it would be nice to have a water bottle with a filter, or even a bottle made specifically for fruit infused water as well! • pullovers or layering tops anyone active or interested in any kind of workout or fitness activity could use a comfy and practical pullover to layer with. my personal collection of them range from lightweight and 1/4 zip to shirts to thicker and full zip. i have especially been loving comfortable hoodies with drooping necklines like the puma french terry sweatshirt and reebok yo-ga hoodie lately. also, zip-ups with thumbholes are always a bonus in my book! i just bought the new balance “impact” hooded half zip and wear it every chance i get. popular/personal favorite brands include: lorna jane, reebok, puma, lululemon, lucy, fabletics • foam rollers foam rollers are an essential part of stretching and workout recovery. using them frequently can have the same effect as a deep tissue massage! foam rolling, also called self-myofascial release, uses deep compression to literally roll out fixed knots or muscle pains that develop in deep tissue. the hard cylinders come in all different sizes and intensities. there are even gridded ones to trigger pressure points. i have this high density roller on my wish list and can’t stress the importance of anyone working their body having one to use at home enough. • puma fitness fashion comfort & casual wear i often turn to these pieces after workouts and when i feel like i could easily be in sweats for the remainder of the day… only a lot cuter. french terry sweatshirt // progressive trend pants // carson runner shoes studio capsule pant // the gym loose tank // narita v2 sneaker • flipbelt flipbelt is an easy and extremely lightweight belt that allows you to be equipped with things you might need during a workout or long run, completely hands-free. i got one a couple months ago and i’m obsessed. i purchased the pink one specifically for running, but this could easily come in handy for anyone taking their workouts outside, or even those who don’t want to carry a bag into the gym! • mizuno wave rider 18 running shoes mizuno has been my go-to long distance running brand for several years. for the past two, i have sworn by my wave enigmas and put them on my feet any time i feel more than five miles coming on. after trying out the mizuno wave rider 18’s i didn’t want to take them off. i went off of my good feelings about an 11 mile run before a race and decided to try them out for the 13.1. i will for sure be replacing them when they wear down! fitness related posts • 5 reasons you need rest days • favorite no-equipment needed at-home workouts • fitness tips for beginners • how to overcome annoyances with healthy, active living • 10 reasons to start running • 10 things you need to train for a half marathon • stretching after running • warm up stretching before running • workout gear for winter running make sure to stop by the fitness page for more workouts and fitness related posts! welcome follow facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter follow search stay in the loop with newsletter updates and exclusive promotions! email address: categories categories select category anniversaries appetizers aspen & cali auditions baby bachelorette party baking barre beauty beautycounter bible quotes blogging blue diamond books breakfast bridal party bridal shower broadway bucket list budget cardio casseroles causes celebrations charities chicken circuit training classes classpass coffee talk coffee talks & thoughts concerts conferences countdowns cpt culture dance day in the life decor desserts detroit dining in michigan dinner diy entertainment faith fall family faqs fashion fashion favorites fitness fitness fashion food friday favorites gifts giveaways grocery hauls group fitness guest posts hair hair & beauty tips half marathon training halloween health healthy eating holiday gift guides holidays home honeymoon interviews lean beef lil baby lil giveaway week lil workout wednesdays looking back lunch makeup mimm motivation moving nails nasm new jersey new york new york city news no bake recipes on-the-go organization orlando pastas photo dump pregnancy press projects q&a races random thoughts and things recipe recaps recipes reviews roadie round-ups running salads scott side dishes skin smoothies snacks soups sponsored sports spring stitch fix summer surveys thanksgiving things i’ve learned in my 30s thinking out loud thought of the day training travel turkey tutorials uncategorized vegan vegetarian vendors videos wedding wedding hints wedding recaps weddings weekend in photos weekly workouts wiaw winter words of wisdom workout roundups workouts yoga twitter tweets by @lifenleggings pinterest copyright © 2020 · foodie child theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in copyright © life in leggings 2020 | designed by murnan creative