home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog i made it in oxygen magazine!! august 15, 2014 by erin weiss 1 comment since i started working out in 2011, my ultimate goal was always to be in oxygen magazine. today my dreams came true!!! i'm so extremely excited right now, i can barely handle it :) i had to do a quick post to share it with you guys!! to make it better, the september issue has one of my favorite girls on the cover, erin stern! when you see it at the store, make sure to … [read more...] why is the fitness world becoming so sexy? october 16, 2013 by erin weiss 4 comments this has been something i've been pretty annoyed with lately and i thought i'd share my thoughts. since being in the fitness world for a couple years, i feel like i've seen it change right before my eyes. why the heck is the fitness industry turning into soft core porn? my instagram feed has been flooded by girls who are nearly naked each and every day. yes i choose … [read more...] fitness inspired costume ideas october 9, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments with halloween right around the corner, i wanted to let you know of a few fun fitness inspired costumes i've thought of. fitness inspired costume ideas color runner we have all seen pictures from those who participated in a color run (color me rad, color run, run or dye...), so why not dress up as one of these colorful runners for halloween?? just wear a white shirt … [read more...] competing while pregnant july 9, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments competing while pregnant i just had to share this awesome story with you guys today. not many woman have the courage to do a competition and there sure aren't many woman that i know of that would have the courage to do a bikini competition while pregnant!!!! until today, i had never heard of a pregnant woman stepping on stage and i'm so proud of this girl. i don't know … [read more...] interview with fitness model felicia romero june 25, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment recently, i had the privilege to interview the gorgeous ifbb figure pro, felicia romero!!! felicia romero is one of my fitness girls. she has always been one of the strong women that i aspire to be like. when she agreed on doing an interview, i was so excited! felicia has 5 pro wins, she is a 5 time cover model for flex magazine in 2008 and 2009. she finished top 5 … [read more...] oxygen officially closes it’s doors june 19, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment oxygen officially closes it's doors i was hoping that this follow up post from my earlier post would be a lot different. i posted almost a week ago as soon as i saw the first tweet about oxygen going bankrupt. as you all know, i'm a huge fan of oxgyen and had my dreams to someday be in the magazine. that was literally my ultimate goal in fitness! well....looks like that's … [read more...] fitness photo shoot may 5, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i got a couple pictures back from my last photo shoot that i thought i'd share with you guys! thank you brian weitzeil for capturing these great photos! … [read more...] my fitness photo shoot april 26, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments hey everyone!!! i wanted to make a quick post about my fitness shoot i did last night! i trained hard for this shoot and learned a lot from it as well. my day was busy busy busy. my shoot was on a thursday night which was pretty hard to plan for. i also had to work a full day before the shoot..so it was go time as soon as the alarm hit 6:30am! i woke up and my coach … [read more...] my new motivation march 25, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i've finally set a new goal for myself to keep me motivated! i needed to schedule something so i'm doing a photo shoot at the end of april :) i decided to work with the same photographer again who took these shots... photographer: brian weitzeil of prodigious photography i liked his work a lot and he was fun to work with, so we are going to shoot together again … [read more...] status fitness magazine cover girl contest march 9, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i'm in the running for status fitness magazine's cover girl contest!!! i need some votes!!! you can vote 5 times every day during the month of march. the other girls are killing me so i need your help if you have a second :) http://www.statusfitnessmagazine.com/model/contest/erin-weiss thank you sooo much to any of you who vote for me. this would mean the world to … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in