got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos fitperez featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... home › fitperez britney spears faster than usain bolt?!? the singer's latest fitspiration post blew up for all the wrong reasons... 03/27/20 8:14am pdt click for details kumail nanjiani reveals the workout that got his body ripped! watch for fitspiration... or any reason really... 03/18/20 10:29am pdt click for details stay fit & distant! the best free workouts to do while social distancing 03/17/20 12:40pm pdt click for details hayley williams weighed just 91 lbs after divorce paramore singer spills all about her alcohol abuse, suicidal thoughts, & more 03/13/20 4:30pm pdt click for details 'you have to want it' kumail nanjiani explains his struggle with body dysmorphia during fitness journey 03/10/20 4:05pm pdt click for details pereztv bernie sanders struggles to breathe! 03/05/20 12:14am pdt click for details 'i feel better' shannen doherty is learning to embrace 'every day' amid cancer battle 03/01/20 11:10am pdt click for details brit's broken bones! britney spears seriously injured her foot in a dancing accident! 02/18/20 5:36pm pdt click for details pereztv is the media responsible for caroline flack’s death! and people are mad at me! | perez hilton 02/17/20 11:32am pdt click for details lizzo goes off! singer slams body shaming double standards for men in candid new interview 02/17/20 9:51am pdt click for details click for more news hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy