home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library latest articles the joys of parenthood prevnext five survival skills for kids that you should know leyla preston fri 21st feb 2020 1shares share tweet pin how many times have you said to yourself: “if i only knew then what i know now?” it takes time to develop our knowledge and gain life experience, and what we learn we should pass on to our kids, so they possess basic survival skills to protect them against this unpredictable world. and if heaven forbid, our children are left to fend for themselves in some weird, horrible turn of events, we need to make sure that our kids have a handful of basic survival skills under their belt, even if it’s just to get to the phone and ask for help. so, here are five survival skills that your child should know now: table of contents how to call for help how to feed themselves how to practice safe hygiene how to stay strong and healthy how to make money bonus skill – take them swimming! how to call for help whether this means running out of the house and to the neighbours to ask for help, or picking up the phone and dialling 999, kids need to know what to do when there is a crisis and they find their parents in some trouble. ingrain into their heads your phone number, address, and medical details, if they’re old enough to retain that information. teach them how to call for an ambulance or the police and keep reminding them that whatever happens, they are to call the police/ambulance first. they should know where family and friends live so they can run away from imminent danger. how to feed themselves if kids find themselves on their own, they need to know how to make food and feed themselves until help arrives. i have taught my boys how to make toast and cereal and grab things out of the fridge and cupboard. i’ve also shown them what spoiled food looks like and to smell the food before they eat it. my husband has taught them the basics of what not to eat from the bushes and trees. teach them things like food storage too so if they’re stranded for hours they know where the food is kept and how it should be stored. how to practice safe hygiene since they were old enough to use their motor skills, i have drummed the importance of hygiene into my boys’ brains. they still forget now and again, but washing hands is fundamentally important to minimise harmful germs entering their systems and making them ill. the adage, “what won’t kill you will only make you stronger,” isn’t exactly correct. if you’re sick, your body takes a huge knock which it almost never recovers from. the more of these knocks you get the weaker your body becomes. it’s great to build up your baby’s immunity but within reason. they are naturally building their immunity from the air they breathe and the things they touch. there’s no need to add extra germs that might make them very ill. how to stay strong and healthy we are a very active family who practices eating healthy and staying positive. since the boys could walk, they were on scooters and then bikes. now, at six and seven, they take part in a multitude of sports, including football, gymnastics and swimming. we have also bought them skateboards and in-line rollerblades for their birthdays because it’s very important to make sports fun and to teach them that exercising and staying fit and healthy is vitally important to surviving in the outside world if the forces of nature are against you. since the boys were babies they have watched me exercise at home, so i’m hoping that this ethic will be ingrained into their heads and they keep it up into adulthood. plus, sports and physical activities foster outdoor survival. unstructured outdoor play is much more beneficial than structured indoor play, so make sure you take your kids to the local park/playground to enhance their mental and physical development. it’s also a good idea for you to learn first aid so you can teach them basic skills, in case they are faced with a decision that may require basic first aid knowledge. it is also important to teach them about ailments they may face or injuries that require urgent attention. any injuries to the brain, like brain contusions, need to be dealt with straight away, so they should call 999 as soon as possible. how to make money unfortunately, money makes the world go around and, even though it may not directly bring you happiness, it buys you choices. being poor hurts and constantly grafting for money hurts the family. so, i try to teach the boys entrepreneurial skills so they can watch out for gaps in the market and find their own way of making money. i am also instilling in them a good work ethic. they do £1 chores around the house, so they learn the value of the pound and i am teaching them to save money rather than spend it. if you haven’t started doing this yet, it’s never too late. the earlier you teach them, the more likely they are to become savers rather than spenders later on in life. bonus skill – take them swimming! above swim gear from simply swim* swimming, may not be an outdoor sport, but it is a survival skill. in case of an emergency, the boys need to swim to safety because they know how to swim. we take the boys swimming every week, and they have come on leaps and bounds with their swimming skills. we also kit them well in swimming gear from simply swim and take them even during the winter. we just make sure they’re thoroughly dry and wrapped up warm when they come out there are many other survival skills to teach kids how to thrive in this world, like working hard and being responsible for themselves and being aware of their surroundings at all times. as they got older, it’s useful to teach kids about how to make a fire, shelter, and fetch water, as well as cooking over the fire too. another important skill is to judge the change in weather and teach them how they to protect themselves during harsh seasons. some schools in the us are now integrating a weather curriculum that helps children collect and analyse weather data. this is so they can understand what the weather changes mean and how they can work with them, especially thunder and lightning, which can be dangerous if you’re not in a safe environment. technology that includes lightning detection helps children to predict further changes in weather patterns so they are better prepared during climate changes. plus, it’s a great way to get them interested in how nature and the environment work. the important point to note is that in a survival situation, kids should be able to think on their feet and armed with the survival tips above, they should be able to fend for themselves in case we are not around to help them. what other survival tips do you think is useful for kids to learn? share in the comments below leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:children safetyexercisehygienestrengthsurvival skillsweather conditions related posts how to get fit with beats headphones top five restful activities for parents ... get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... early signs of labour – and what t... the benefits of walking during pregnancy ways that you can fit exercise and relax... 15 weeks old – is aron teething al... a day at champneys springs with lights b... competition time! win a polar loop 2 and... 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... perfect your pelvic floor this 2017 with... ozeri 4x3motion digital pocket 3d pedome... get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... things you can do before opting for surg... get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... 5 self-help tips to keep depression away... how you can encourage your child to be a... healthy lifestyle habits when you have a... healthy weight loss after pregnancy 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... how to improve your eyesight now how to be an active mum how to give yourself a little boost with... benefits of exercise during pregnancy 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... where does your fat go when you lose wei... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok