skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » tutorial » how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress november 15, 2019 joe fylan tutorial 7 comments most of the time wordpress runs like a well-oiled machine – causing very few problems. every now and then, something strange happens. sending you on a wild goose chase, desperate to figure out the cause of the problem and get your website back up and running. almost everyone understands the importance of the wordpress database. it contains everything that makes your website unique. your content, images, meta descriptions, settings, user information, and more are all contained within your database. that’s why there is one message that sends fear into the hearts of every website owner. its the plain white screen with the ominous phrase across the top stating “error establishing a database connection”. before you stop, drop and roll in a state of panic, take a deep breath and realize that we can usually fix this problem in just a few minutes. that’s exactly what we’re going to run through today. first things first: a backup primer we’ll keep this short and sweet. there are always a few people out there who still haven’t jumped on board with the idea of creating regular backups. of course, this wouldn’t be you, would it? if it is, the error establishing a database connection message is usually the ideal wake up call. the thought that the database could have a sudden problem usually scares people into the habit of creating regular backups. so, if you haven’t already been doing so, today is the day that you’ll start creating regular backups of your wordpress site. once we get your database back up and running, you can head over to this article to check out an easy way to get started. either way, as we get into the troubleshooting part of this post, it’s important to make sure you’ve created a fresh backup before you make any changes to your mysql database or click on anything in phpmyadmin. by “fresh backup”, i mean a completely new version. don’t overwrite something that was created before the error message was generated. what does error establishing database connection mean? the heart of any wordpress website is the database. mysql is the open source database responsible for storing virtually all of the critical information required by your website. to put it simply, without a database, you’ve got nothing but a blank white screen. anytime a visitor comes to your website, wordpress, which is built on php, is required to deliver the requested page to your visitor’s browser. in order to achieve this, wordpress communicates with your mysql database and requests the required information. this includes absolutely everything that the end user sees on their screen. so, if a visitor arrives on your homepage, wordpress will request from the database information that includes your current theme, the header and logo, any images or text, sidebar widgets, settings, footer content and more. it’s a long list. but every now and then, something goes wrong. wordpress goes looking for information and – nothing. silence. for whatever reason, wordpress is unable to connect or pull the required information from your database. when this happens it returns a blank white page and an error message “error establishing a database connection”. once this happens, it’s up to you or your hosting company to find the root cause of the problem and fix the error. why does this error happen? it would be nice if the cause of the error was as clear as the error message itself. unfortunately, that’s rarely the case. most of the time the problem can be resolved quickly with just a little digging. other times, you may need to escalate the situation by getting in touch with your hosting company. as you’re working through these problems and solutions, remember, as with most things in wordpress, there are usually multiple ways of solving the same problem. let’s take a look at the three most common reasons: your database credentials are incorrect if you’ve recently installed wordpress through your hosting company’s one-click installer, then chances are this is not the cause of your problem. on the other hand, if you’re in the process of doing one of the following, then there is a good chance that this is where your problem resides: installing wordpress using the “famous 5-minute install”. moving from a local installation to a server. if you are changing hosts or domain names. most of the time you’ll know whether there is a chance that your credentials are incorrect. if you’ve been entering or changing database credentials, it’s not something you do unknowingly. step #1 – gather the required information the first step towards resolving the error message is to gather all the required information. this includes: database name database host (usually but not always “localhost”) database username database password this information can be found in your cpanel under mysql databases (pictured above). opening up this window will display a list of database installations as well as a list of database users. keep this window open while you move to step number two. step #2 – cross-check your database credentials your second step is to download or open up your wp-config.php file. you can do this using a basic ftp program such as filezilla but it’s easier to log in to your cpanel and open up your file manager, selecting “web root (public_html/www)” and then clicking “go”. next, select the wp-config.php file (as seen above) and at the top of your screen click “edit”. this will open up the file and enable the editor. scrolling down a few lines you find the information that you are looking for: https://gist.github.com/puikinsh/d6f0a94959c4a5245c77 all of the information contained within quotes, for example ‘database_name’, must match exactly with your actual database credentials. even an extra space after the quotes can cause an error message. in case you’re wondering what your database host should be set to, you can either check with your hosting company’s support team or this list. if you’re unsure of your password, you can simply select the user (as seen in the image below) and reset the password. then copy and paste the new password into your wp-config.php file. if for any reason, you’d rather start from scratch. you can simply create a new user and assign them to the database. just make sure that if you have multiple database installations, you apply the new user to the correct database (you may only have one). step #3 – check your table prefix while you’re looking around your wp_config.php file it’s also a good idea to make sure your table prefix is correct. if you’re referencing the wrong database, it won’t matter how accurate your login details are. look for the following text: https://gist.github.com/puikinsh/ef1b20c0d4cddca980fb often your table prefix will say ‘wp_’, but it can be set to anything for example ‘wp63ts7_’ make sure your actual table prefix matches what’s in your wp-config.php file. your database is corrupt if you’ve gone through all of the steps above to no avail, double checking closely for any typos or missing information, the next possibility is that your database is corrupt. a tell-tale sign of database corruption is when the front-end of your website seems to be working properly, but the back-end displays the error message or vice versa. if this is the case, you’re probably on the right track. this potential fix is a little less tedious than checking all your database credentials, but it still requires a little work. there are two potential ways to get the job done: option #1 enable the wordpress database repair following the step #2 above, you’ll want to open up your wp-config.php file using the editor. scroll to the bottom of the file and add the following line of code: define( 'wp_allow_repair', true ); save your changes, but keep the editor open, you’re going to need it in a few minutes. next, open up a new tab in your browser. navigate to the following url: http://yoursite.com/wp-admin/maint/repair.php this will open up the wordpress database tool that will look like the image below. from there, you can select either “repair database” or “repair and optimize database”. however, to stay on the side of caution, it might be best to simply repair the database at this point in time. in case you don’t see repair option right away but see this message you will need to edit your wp-config.php file first. once this step is complete, go back to your file editor, delete the line that you added at the bottom and save the file again. you have now disabled the repair tool. don’t forget this final step. option #2 repair your database using phpmyadmin another way to repair your database tables is through the phpmyadmin interface in your cpanel. although quicker and easier, this method also requires a little more caution since you can completely wipe out your database from within phpmyadmin. friendly reminder: always backup your database before making any changes. once you’ve opened up phpmyadmin (see above), select the appropriate database on the left side of your screen. next make sure the structure tab is selected. then, highlight all the tables and using the drop-down box as shown below, select “repair table”. repair table via phpmyadmin – select “check all” items and then click on “repair now” once this action shows as being successfully completed, you can close phpmyadmin and test your website. there is a problem with the server the third and final possibility is that your error message is actually being caused by a problem with your server. if your website is hosted in a shared environment it is usually more likely that the problem is caused by an overloaded server. with many shared hosting companies, there can be thousands of other websites hosted on the same server. if one of those users decides to abuse the server resources, whether intentionality or not, it’s possible that their actions can affect everyone else whose website is hosted on the same server. the good news about this scenario is that users causing this type of problem are usually red flagged pretty quickly. once your hosting company discovers the problem, the offending account is suspended or put on a very short leash. it’s also possible that these problems are not caused intentionally. if your website or another website on the same server is featured in the press or the front page of reddit for example, a sudden traffic spike can overload the database. this type of problem will also tend to self-resolve fairly quickly. if you’ve tried everything else and your site is still offline after a few minutes, it could be time to call or chat online with your hosting company. in the event that this problem happens more than occasionally and is a result of using shared hosting, you might want to consider switching to managed hosting instead. while it’s a little more expensive, you’ll rarely have these kinds of problems to deal with. wrap up that pretty much covers the three most common reasons that you might experience the “error establishing a database connection” message: incorrect database credentials. a corrupt database or individual database table. a problem with the server. in most cases, this error message is a problem that can be resolved in under 15 minutes. if you’re unsure about how to fix it or you are uncomfortable with the methods covered in this post, it’s probably better to contact your hosting company or turn to a wordpress support service. the last thing you want to do is cause more damage to your database. in almost all cases, even with shared hosting, you’ll find that customer support is more than happy to help you resolve this error. if not, it might be time to look for a different hosting company. if you’ve ever experienced problems with your wordpress database please share in the comments below. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. error pageerrorsserver errorwordpress database optimizationwordpress support share this share tweet pin it share joe fylan joe uses wordpress to create websites of all types and loves sharing his experiences of using this software with other users. if you need a steady stream of great content for your website, or you want the latest wordpress news and review then check out his writing services and wordpress blog. related posts how to move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org wordpress is the most popular and versatile cms out there and there’s no denying the… 9 insanely actionable tips on selling more wordpress themes intro you’ve spent last 4 months developing a wordpress theme. you have an apple product… top 27 best free node.js tutorials to improve your coding skills 2016 node.js is the most widely known server-side framework for building fast and scalable applications, and… how to create a directory in wordpress wanting to build a directory listing similar to yelp, zomato, or foursquare is not that… how to create a dental clinic website using wordpress – a detailed guide running your own dental clinic is a huge deal if you are not looking for… top ten elements you must have on your photography site when you decide to take the huge step of getting into professional photography, the logical… this post has 7 comments robert says: at just what i was looking for, got it fixed pretty quickly. thank’s joe, perfect timing and very useful post. reply matt says: at i’m only getting this error on mobile and tablet, pc is completely fine… do you know what could be causing this? reply aigars says: at matt, make sure to clean browser cache to make sure if this error page is not loaded from cache. this sort of error can’t be device specific as this is a problem on your website site. therefore i believe that cache might cause this problem. reply eric says: at i have been getting the same error in my blog…its hard to solve the issue reply debbie says: at thank you! you saved my butt! reply ananda says: at i’m used webuzo panel to run my website for 1 month but now my web is down with database error /1min how solution to fix it? i’m using vps reply aigars says: at ananda, make sure to follow all the steps mentioned above and we are sure you will get your website back up and running. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners next post: how to start a food blog today with wordpress – beginner’s guide we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×