hair romance hair blog - hair tutorials - curly hairstyles and more home tutorials curly hair curly hair guide braids guide shop about terms of use privacy policy disclosure policy contact fix your bad hair days with hair romance get the ultimate hair romance e-book bundle! hair romance has released 4 unique hairstyles ebooks with tips and styles to fix all your bad hair days. join over 15,000 women who love their hair every day with my hairstyle ebooks. these guides offer step-by-step photo tutorials and instructions for hair romance’s signature styles. you can save with the ultimate bundle – click here to purchase now. you’ll never have a bad hair day again! shop the individual hair romance hairstyle ebooks choose from the original twist & pin ebook, learn how to braid with 30 braids in 30 days or take your bun from ordinary to extraordinary with 30 buns in 30 days. or get all three books for months of great hair! instantly download these ebooks to read on your phone, tablet or computer now. it’s like having hair romance in your pocket every morning. click here to purchase the 30 days of twist & pin hairstyles ebook click here to purchase the 30 braids in 30 days ebook click here to purchase the 30 buns in 30 days ebook curly hairstyles now if you have curly, wavy or frizzy hair then you’ll love the new 30 days of curly hairstyles ebook. with over 36 hairstyle tutorials shown in naturally curly hair, you’ll also learn my tips and tricks for styling curly hair to keep it looking good for days. master your frizz with this essential guide for curly hair. click here to purchase the 30 days of curly hairstyles ebook my best-selling print book now a new york times bestseller, my print book can be found around the world. in australia it’s called hair romance, in the us it’s known as braids, buns & twists and it has also been translated into multiple languages. while my book goes under different names around the world, inside you’ll find 82 hairstyle tutorials and endless hair tips. find it at: amazon booktopia thank you so much for supporting hair romance! hair romance all information copyright hair romance™ 2010-2020. hair romance is a registered trademark. quick links home about 30 days of curly hairstyles 30 hairstyles in 30 days 30 braids in 30 days 30 buns in 30 days advertise contact contact email: thehair[at]hairromance[dot]com mail: po box 1288, darlinghurst nsw 1300 twitter: @hairromance instagram: @hairromance copyright christina butcher 2020