skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: flooring patio flooring buying guide a well-designed patio can become a second living room for your home, so it’s important to make smart design choices. one of the biggest decisions you will need to make is what to use for your patio flooring. with so many patio flooring options, it can be tough to… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in flooring hardwood floors: understanding your options image: lumber liquidators hardwood floors buying guide hardwood floors are one of the most popular types of flooring, increasing the resale value of homes and beautifying them in the process. but there are many considerations to make when choosing and installing hardwood floors, such as type, specie… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in flooring hardwood vs. laminate wood flooring the flooring of a home is one of its defining features. wood flooring remains one of the most popular options, as it is a naturally inviting, beautiful and timeless material. while older, more traditional homes often have the original hardwood floors still in place, many newer homes are using lamina… by roniquegibson on march 4, 2020 in flooring best kitchen flooring ideas there are so many kitchen flooring options available that it can feel difficult to find the right one. when making your decision, you’ll want to consider two factors: function and durability. whatever it’s made of, your kitchen floor should be easy-to-maintain and long-lasting. there is a beautiful… by freshome team on march 21, 2020 in flooring kid-friendly flooring guide for parents reflooring your home can be a challenge when you have young children. you want a floor type that not only looks great but also keeps your kids safe and stands up to all their little messes. check out this graphic to discover how you can reconcile these goals and how… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in flooring all about bamboo flooring — understand your options bamboo flooring guide whether you’re looking to improve the appearance of one room in your house or hoping to install a durable, eco-friendly flooring option throughout your home, bamboo floors combine the resilience of hardwood flooring with the easy maintenance of laminate. searick1 / shuttershoc… by blake hughes on march 4, 2020 in flooring tips for restoring your wood floors hardwood floors have an incomparable beauty and they can add warmth and style to any room. whether you have a traditional home with architectural details or a modern, industrial space, hardwoods fit right in. that’s why many homeowners even use hardwood floors in… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in flooring how to make your partially open floor plan feel like a true open concept we can’t all have the most open of floor plans. many homes were built before open concepts were widely accepted. that means they often have loadbearing walls that can’t simply be knocked down, leading to a partially open floor plan in many homes. or you might have built or purchased… by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in flooring carpet flooring is back — and it’s better than ever we’ve been obsessed with wood floors for the last decade, sending wall-to-wall carpet flooring straight to the dumpster. there’s been good reason for the decision, too. carpets can trap dust and dander that aggravate allergies. carpet stains easily and can look (and smell) dingy after a… by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in flooring should you use hardwood floors in kitchens and bathrooms? hardwood floors offer a number of benefits. they are both incredibly beautiful, and incredibly easy to clean. they are a great option for allergy sufferers as carpets can aggravate symptoms. even homeowners without allergies can enjoy the seamless look of hardwood flooring. however, water can easily… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in flooring 1 2 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss