evernote uses cookies to enable the evernote service and to improve your experience with us. to learn more, check out our cookie policy. by clicking ok or continuing to use our site, you agree that we can place these cookies. ok click "ok" to return to yinxiang.com ok evernote plans basic take great notes premium unclutter your life business bring your team together compare plans find the evernote solution that fits your needs features sync and organize keep your notes handy web clipper a save button for the web templates make better notes, faster pdf & doc search find information anywhere spaces bring your team together search handwriting find text in any note document scanning go paperless with evernote integrations connect your favorite apps help & learning about us about us learn about the company careers opportunities at evernote why evernote save, sync and share it all contact us need help? get in touch download or log in evernote download or log in plans basic premium business compare plans features sync and organize web clipper templates pdf & doc search spaces search handwriting document scanning integrations help & learning about us about us why evernote careers contact us why evernote? evernote helps people focus on what matters most to them. it’s where ideas become answers, where individuals organize their daily lives, and where teams come to create and share work together. see why 225 million users trust evernote’s products as the home for their most important thoughts and ideas. save everything more than notes, evernote is where you can store everything from personal moments to business projects, and know they’re always safe, always secure, and ready whenever you need them. sync everything evernote auto-syncs across all your devices, including desktop, smartphone, and tablet. your ideas, photos, and clipped pages are always available, no matter where you are. share everything from birthdays to the boardroom, keep friends, family, and team members in on everything. invite anyone to collaborate on whatever is on your mind. get started for free beginner's playbook discover the many ways evernote can help you and your team find focus and work better! remember everything there's more to a note than typing text. here are 9 ways to capture what matters. read the article → get creative see how writers, musicians, and others use evernote to unleash their creativity. read the article → unite your team need to get on the same page? spaces in evernote business keeps teams in sync. read the article → built for teams and individuals find the evernote solution that fits your needs. evernote basic free take great notes sign up for free most popular evernote premium $9.99 / month organize everything start free trial evernote business $14.99 / user / month * bring your team together *min. 2 users start free trial explore our plans → evernote was created to empower individuals and teams to capture ideas and inspirations, so they’re remembered forever. read more about how evernote has helped others work better together, and how it can do the same for you. learn about evernote product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations notes sync pdf & doc search search handwriting document scanning notebooks & tags community our community certified consultants beta program developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose a language: english (us) bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu dansk deutsch english (us) español español (américa latina) français italiano nederlands polski português (brasil) português (portugal) suomi svenska tiếng việt türkçe русский العربية ภาษาไทย 한국어 中文（简体） 中文（繁體） 日本語 facebook twitter medium instagram youtube linkedin © 2020 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy