skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons justin tadlock · march 27, 2020 · no comments covid-19 awareness icons added to font awesome. on monday, the font awesome team launched a new set of icons to promote awareness around covid-19. the solid icons available in the font awesome 5.13 update are all available for free and are open-source. the regular, light, and duotone versions of the icons are a part of the pro package. the goal of the new icons is to help websites and apps boost awareness around the global pandemic. the latest update adds 47 new icons that range from medical use to promoting hygienic practices such as hand washing. some icons represent viruses and social/physical distancing. there is even a couple of toilet paper icons thrown in for good measure. apparently, those are necessary in today’s world of mass panic buying. “based on recommendations from the world health organization and others, you’ll find symbols to communicate good hygiene and social distancing,” wrote jory raphael, icon design lead at font awesome. “while we can’t be on the front lines like brave medical professionals across the globe, we hope these icons aid in communicating some of the most important things people can do to protect themselves and their communities.” the icons were originally requested two weeks ago on the font awesome github repository. the design team moved quickly to make them available. there are additional icon tickets for liquid soap and a bar of soap open. like all font awesome icons, the new icons are available as part of the font package or for download as individual svg files. the fonts may come in handy for website owners, designers, and developers who are building sites or pages with content related to covid-19. icons can add context to content or focus attention where needed. users of the font awesome wordpress plugin should have immediate access to the new icons if needed. the plugin relies on the external font awesome cdn or font awesome kits. users can also choose which version of the library of icons they wish to use, which includes the latest release. if you know of any other icon sets or resources for designers and developers related to covid-19, please share them in the comments. share this: click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on telegram (opens in new window) click to share on whatsapp (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) like this: like loading... posted in news tagged font awesome leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. join the discussion via emailget only replies to your comment, the best of the rest, as well as a daily recap of all comments on this post. no more than a few emails daily, which you can reply to/unsubscribe from directly from your inbox. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. %d bloggers like this: