skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download fonts by brad dalton - wp sites details reviews support development description this plugin adds 2 drop down menus to your visual editor with additional sizes and fonts: a button for styles a button for sizes new: you can also add your own selection of google or custom fonts including premium fonts, to your editor by purchasing a premium upgrade. gutenberg works with the latest version of gutenberg support new support – start live chat premium upgrades: add google fonts http://wpsites.net/wordpress-admin/add-google-web-fonts-to-your-wordpress-editor/ add custom fonts http://wpsites.net/wordpress-themes/add-custom-fonts-to-the-wordpress-editor/ screenshots this is the font family menu this is the font sizes menu reviews so far a real good choice changamoto february 29, 2020 it offers quite a nice package, loads quickly and is stable. highly recommend it neat! amlie february 5, 2020 very useful, more than easy to use! fonts alley kat december 25, 2019 great job! super mojemrdalice october 5, 2019 i like this plugin. it is very easy to use and supports serbian fonts. nice to have the font options readily available imanuelae october 9, 2019 makes life easier. will pick up fonts and font sizes specified using html too ok phbinggeli july 16, 2019 good to use read all 85 reviews contributors & developers “fonts” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors wp sites - brad dalton translate “fonts” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. meta version: 2.3 last updated: 9 months ago active installations: 20,000+ tested up to: 5.2.5 tag: fonts advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 64 4 stars 7 3 stars 1 2 stars 1 1 star 12 contributors wp sites - brad dalton support got something to say? need help? view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.