skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged font loading it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 7 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. link march 27, 2020 maintaining performance shared by chris coyier real talk from dave: i, dave rupert, a person who cares about web performance, a person who reads web performance blogs, a person who spends lots of hours trying to keep up on best practices, a person who co-hosts a weekly podcast about making websites and speak with web performance professionals… somehow goofed and added 33 seconds to their page load. this stuff is hard even when you care a lot. the 33 seconds came from font preloading rather than … read article “maintaining performance” our notes / read at daverupert.com font loading performance article march 10, 2020 considerations when choosing fonts for a multilingual website author omar bourhaouta 7 comments join conversation as a front-end developer working for clients all over the world, i've always struggled to deal with multilingual websites — especially cases where both right-to-left (rtl) and left-to-right (ltr) are used. that said, i’ve learned a few things along the way and am going to share a few tips in this post. let’s work in arabic and english, not just because arabic is my native language, but because it’s a classic example of rtl in use. adding rtl support to a site before this though, we’ll want to add support for an rtl language on our site. there … read article “considerations when choosing fonts for a multilingual website” font loading font-face glyphs system fonts link july 9, 2019 developing a robust font loading strategy for css-tricks shared by robin rendle zach leatherman worked closely with chris to figure out the font loading strategy for this very website you're reading. zach walks us through the design in this write-up and shares techniques that can be applied to other projects. spoiler alert: font loading is a complex and important part of a project. the really interesting part of this post is the way that zach talks about changing the design based on what’s best for the codebase — or as harry roberts … read article “developing a robust font loading strategy for css-tricks” our notes / read at www.zachleat.com font loading link may 14, 2019 google fonts is adding font-display shared by robin rendle google announced at i/o that their font service will now support the font-display property which resolves a number of web performance issues. if you're hearing cries of joy, that's probably chris as he punches the air in celebration. he's wanted this feature for some time and suggests that all @font-face blocks ought to consider using the property. zach leatherman has the lowdown: this is big news—it means developers now have more control over google fonts web font loading behavior. … read article “google fonts is adding font-display” our notes / read at www.zachleat.com font loading font-display google fonts article february 27, 2019 typography for developers author taimur abdaal 1 comment go to comments this is intended as a practical guide for developers to learn web typography. we’ll cover a range of practical and useful topics, like how to choose and use custom fonts on the web, but more importantly, how to lay text out to create a pleasant user experience. we’ll go over the principles of typography and the css properties that control them, as well as handy tips to get good results, quickly. font loading font-face font-size typography web fonts article december 19, 2018 fighting foit and fout together author chris coyier comments go to comments lots from divya with the setup: there are 2 kinds of problems that can arise when using webfonts; flash of invisible text (foit) and flash of unstyled text (fout) ... if we were to compare them, fout is of course the lesser of the two evils if you wanna fight foit, the easiest tool is the font-display css property. i like the optional value because i generally dislike the look of fonts swapping.… read article “fighting foit and fout together” font loading font-display perceived performance performance article december 19, 2018 google fonts and font-display author chris coyier 11 comments go to comments hey! this whole article is about a time before may 2019 in which google fonts didn't offer a way to use font-display without self-hosting the fonts. to use font-display with google fonts, you include a url parameter like &display=swap in the url, like https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=open+sans&display=swap. if you're copying code from google fonts now, it's the default, so you get it automatically, but you might want to add it if you have existing urls to google fonts lingering around, or you want … read article “google fonts and font-display” font loading font-display google fonts how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers