skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides category: food i tried making mike bloomberg’s meatball recipe and it doesn’t make sense posted on feb 24, 2020 posted in: food, personal essay, random musings harvey weinstein was found guilty today on some (but not all) of the charges brought against him by the state of new york. and i find this unbelievable, not because i believed in his innocence in any measure, but because i believe in the ability – as old as history and time itself – of… keep reading become invincible. then make cadbury creme egg mayonnaise. posted on may 24, 2019 posted in: food, life at home, nothing to do with travel, personal essay the problem with any writer who happens to experience that rare, fleeting phenomenon known as “external validation” is that for a few moments, we go a little mad. which is to say: we start believing our own hype. and for a writer, truly, what greater madness is there than believing in yourself? don’t get me… keep reading i got a james beard award nomination and heinz made a creme egg mayonnaise (no, really.) posted on apr 11, 2019 posted in: food, random musings, site news i was recently nominated for a james beard award for journalism, and statement which makes as much sense as saying “i was nominated for a grammy for this cookie that i just ate.” the other nominees in my category are – i kid you not – the new york times and the atlantic. i submitted… keep reading emergency porchetta, canelli, italy posted on nov 29, 2018 posted in: food, random musings the emergency porchetta was my favorite part of the trip. that is a strange thing to say for a lot of reasons. for one, i don’t know if the concept of emergency porchetta is widely known. a google search for the term reveals four results, the most salient of which is someone looking for cooking… keep reading from the mediterranean to cheddar bay. posted on may 3, 2018 posted in: food, loving the entrepreneur, random musings, restaurants my husband and i are driving through southern oregon, like we have every summer since we were married. i see a red lobster. i scream. i tell him to pull over immediately. he ignores me. after more than a decade together he can distinguish between my “something is urgently wrong” scream and my “i need… keep reading bar luce: a wes anderson designed cafe in milan, italy posted on dec 8, 2017 posted in: attractions, city guide, food, local color, restaurants i am not the first to discover bar luce. designed by filmmaker wes anderson, it opened in 2015 and i did not learn of its existence until 2017, which is a lifetime in the world of the hip and the trendy. it sits on the outskirts of milan, crowded with flawlessly beautiful and bored looking… keep reading i have written about currywurst, my love. posted on oct 5, 2017 posted in: food, personal essay, random musings, restaurants “you never wrote about the curry plane.” “the … the curry plane?” he nods, pouting. i am confused. “like, a plane of existence that consists of … curry?” i ask, hoping for clarification. he is annoyed. “the curry plane.” “the curry plain,” i say, nodding, having no idea to what he is referring. “… a… keep reading i tried soylent. it didn’t go well. posted on jul 17, 2017 posted in: "lifestyle", food, life at home, nothing to do with travel last week, i decided to try soylent. for those unfamiliar with this “food” product, soylent is a high-protein drink designed to appeal to lifehackers, dieters, and doomsday cult members who are maybe a little shy and don’t want to come out of their bunker for communal meals. it has an incredibly long shelf-life, and provides… keep reading the plight of being a vegetarian while traveling in spain posted on aug 10, 2016 posted in: complaint letters, food, personal essay, rants and raves dear spain, i like you. i truly do. you’re like italy, but less mafioso-y. i begrudgingly appreciate how entire cities will shut down so that people can take naps. it’s absolute bullshit, and really annoying for tourists, but y’all are like, “fuck it! it’s 1pm. let’s eat paella for 3 hours.” it’s hard not to… keep reading posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 12 next page about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.