instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "food" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: food rebecca 5 min read september 30, 2018 7 replies hosting thanksgiving? tips for a stress free event food and drink, lifestyle *feature photo credit @sara mcconnell photography each year, for almost as long as i can remember being in our house, we have hosted thanksgiving. sometimes it’s been with andy’s family, other times (most of the time) with mine. not all of my siblings can always make it, depending on their spouse’s family events or work commitments, but either way, i have a turkey with all the trimmings and as many family members as possible show up (and we make our maple syrup cream pie!) i love hosting, in all honesty. i like that the kids have their games and toys and space to play in. i love cooking in my kitchen, and there is always something special about people you love sitting around your table with plates full of food laughing and chatting (loudly, as is the case in my family.) if you are hosting #thanksgiving dinner, read these tips on how to help make it stress free via @bitofmomsense click to tweet i get it, hosting can be stressful. over the years i’ve learned a few tips and tricks to help make things run a little more smoothly because being a hostess should also mean that you get to sit back and relax and join in the fun too! how to host thanksgiving dinner without the stress tip 1: the time you plan to eat is important if young children are around if you are already a parent, you likely don’t need this tip, but it doesn’t hurt to remind ourselves of this, especially as our children get older, but, the time that kids sit down for dinner is critical. a 7 pm meal time for my kids, especially when they were younger, would have spelled instant disaster and stress. instead, our family opts for an earlier food time. there’s not rush to get out, sleepy kiddos find a place to sleep, but ensuring full bellies is best for happy, extended visits. tip 2: make sure that turkey is cooked – earlier is better make sure that turkey is going to be cooked earlier, rather than later. if the bird is ready at 4 pm but you aren’t going to sit until 5, it’s okay! however, if you plan to eat at 5 o’clock and end up watching that thermometer because it’s taking longer, the stress levels will rise! tip 3: cook ahead what you can there’s always something that can be made the day before, or morning of. in our case, my husband makes his coleslaw ahead of time, and we prepare the mashed turnips the morning of and switch them to a slow cooker when we want to get them warm and ready to serve. this saves us a lot of stress! tip 4: potluck sure, i can’t outsource the turkey (okay, maybe i can, but i love the smell of the turkey in my oven!) but there’s always something else i’m happy to have someone else to do – and my guests always offer. my dad’s stuffing can’t be beat so none of us want to even attempt it and he covers that. my sister and parents are bringing dessert this year so i only have to focus on the main course! tip 5: the dishes can wait this tip won’t be accepted by some people. i understand. staring at a counter full of dishes can be stressful. enlist the team of guests to help load, wash and dry dishes if you prefer. however, in our case, we like to sit back with a glass of wine and relax, so we rinse what dishes need to be done right away, put food in the fridge and stack piles of plates off to the side. the dishwasher can go on later in the evening (or first thing in the morning, depending on how festive everyone is feeling). tip 6: byoc (bring your own containers) this is the rule in our family that if you want left overs, you bring your own container. this doesn’t always happen, and we see each other often enough that we swap dishes with great frequency, but ideally, we show up with containers. the joke is usually who brings a big one, or who is smart enough to bring separate containers for dinner food and dessert. this plan works though, because we always send people home with something, and by having containers ready, i don’t have to rummage through my good ones to part with them. no matter who you host this weekend, remember to relax and enjoy it! the people you surround yourself with are thankful you are hosting and want to see you too 😉 have any tips to share yourself? drop them in the comments! rebecca 5 min read september 14, 2018 1 reply recipe: make a seafood boil parenting, recipes one of my most favourite things to make, and eat, for dinner, is seafood. when we travel to pei, it will come as no surprise that we are constantly looking for local seafood to eat at the cottage, or bites like lobster rolls and fresh oysters when we are out and about at restaurants. it’s been in our travels, to pei, florida and other locations, where our seafood boil obsessions have grown. when we find seafood boils on a menu, we tend to gravitate towards them. during our march break trip to florida, we ordered it a few times. my mom likes to laugh at us because when andy and i share a boil, there is a system in place, to ensure even distribution for all the tasty bites (naturally, just to be fair!) so i started making them at home. i have been making fish, mussels and lobster at home for sometime, but now, i can create these boils where we get bites of all our favourite pieces. recently, i hosted family for a large boil where we had multiple platters on the table and we just dug in. here’s how to make your own boil at home. i have provided the example to be for two, but, at the end, i’ve included instructions for how to multiply that when feeding a crowd. also, keep in mind that you can flavour your boil however you want – for example, if you find seasoning in your travels that you want to try, why not! have fun and enjoy it. this is a meal meant to be served family style, and for sharing, to encourage conversation and togetherness. please note – as with all my recipes, i’m mostly sharing process here. because there are a lot of times i wing amounts – but! i have made this over and over again and it’s pretty well the same process all the time! how to make a seafood boil gather your ingredients! below is what i recommend but you can swap things out! -red potatoes (halved, boiled) -corn on the cob, cut into threes, boiled -chorizo (about 2 inches, cut into chunky bites) -1 shallot, sliced -1 piece of fish (cod, red snapper etc) -2 cups of mussels (note – they are usually sold in a 2 pound bag. you can cook that entire bag separately, adding a few mussels to your boil pan, then just add the extra mussels later. use a bit of seasoning and butter with some water when steaming your mussels to help make more broth. i mention this just because it likely won’t all fit into your pan but you still want to enjoy the deliciousness!) -1 cup of pasta clams -1 cooked lobster (tail, leg and claw meat) or some cooked crab legs (optional) -butter -seasoning (i have used simply garlic and tomatoes in the past, or lately a teaspoon of old bay seasoning) -splash of oil -1 baguette -1 lemon, into quarters to prepare your seafood boil: in advance, boil the potatoes and corn (separately) but have them warm and ready to go. this will save you having to balance the cooking time for those while monitoring the fish. in a high edge pan, (cast iron works great), add some oil and when warm, at the chorizo. warm the chorizo and add the shallot. add a tbsp of butter and 1/2 or tsp of seasoning (some seasonings can be salty, so start with a little at a time) add the fish and let cook, browning on the bottom, add 2 cups of water and bring to a boil. when the fish is beginning to cook, and the mussel water is boiling, add in the mussels, clams and lobster claws/tail etc. cover to let the shells open up and finish cooking. (ensure your seafood is cooked for safety!) remove the lid and gently stir the liquid. serve the boil right to the table (on a hot plate), with lemon slices, and sliced baguette on the side (to dip in your broth). enjoy! making a seafood boil for a crowd when making the boil for the crowd, the same principles and ingredients apply – but you will use more pots. because you will buy many more pounds of shellfish, more fish etc. it may be easier to do it all in steps. again, pre-cook the corn and potatoes (i kept them warming in the oven, covered, while i prepped the seafood). toss these with butter and salt/pepper as you like just before serving. in one large pot, you’ll steam the mussels. in another, the clams. and another, warm up your lobster/crab. in a pan on the stove, cook the fish. when it’s done, warm through the chorizo bites. the mussel pot will become your broth base. use butter, seasoning and water to steam the mussels. when serving, use a large, rimmed serving tray or roasting pan. split the mussels into each serving pan. then add fish to one side, the other seafood to the other, and evenly distrisbute the chorizo, corn and potatoes. rebecca 3 min read october 28, 2017 no reply your next pasta dish to keep in the fridge for a tasty meal food, recipes usually when i use peanut butter, i make a dessert. or, in this house, it gets used up just by eating it plain. my kids have taken to eating pb and pretzels as an after school snack. but i love peanut butter in a savoury dish. combine that with my desire to have easy meals ready to go and it’s not a surprise that this peanut thai noodle salad was a huge winner in my books. try this pasta salad with peanut butter the next time you need a potluck dish! via @bitofmomsense @kraftcanada click to tweet it’s no secret that while i love cooking, my love for being in the kitchen and creating something new and tasty has to be on my own time. during the week, when we are rushed as a family and i can’t decide what to make that is nutritious and fast, it feels more like pressure and takes the joy out of it. when i have time, it’s a wonderful way to spend part of a day. when i don’t, it feels like a chore. i think that’s why i love having easy, go-to recipes that i can use any time during the week with limited ingredients. it’s definitely one reason i have turned to kraft canada recipes for years and years. i can alter them to suit my tastes, and to use what i already have in the pantry or fridge. this peanut thai noodle salad is a cold pasta salad (i love pasta salads!) and was the perfect weeknight no-meat dish. i think next time i make it, i will keep it in the fridge for a tasty lunch for myself during the week. i used bow tie noodles because i love them but a tighter, more firm noodle (like the original recipe calls for) would hold its shape and sauce better. i also omitted the snap peas just because i didn’t have any – that’s the beauty of these recipes, i can easily change them up. the sweet red peppers were a perfect foil to the saltiness of the soy sauce and because i used kraft all natural crunchy peanut butter, the only added sugar was from the honey. i probably could have reduced the amount of soy sauce just a bit and still had the flavours i wanted with each bite. i think what i loved most about this dish was how easy it was to make. i can’t wait to make it again. for more kraft canada peanut butter recipes visit their website! do you like to use peanut butter in dinner dishes? this easy pasta salad made with peanut butter is the perfect mid-week lunch bite via @bitofmomsense @kraftcanada click to tweet this is post is written in partnership with kraft canada. i’m a what’s cooking contributor and receive compensation. all opinions are my own. rebecca 2 min read july 21, 2017 no reply family travel: niagara supper markets family travel when we travel to niagara, there is one spot we know for a fact that we want to go for supper at least once and that’s the market at the village – supper market. this place is beyond amazing (especially if you love delicious, local food and lots of options!). there are various places to eat (food trucks and stands with delicious fare like tacos, pulled pork sandwiches, nachos, and more – including vegan and gluten free options) plus, cold drinks. you can purchase beer and wine tickets (with plenty of local craft beer and some local wineries on site to choose from) or grab a cold soda, water or lemonade. the options seem endless. the market at the village supper market is set just outside of niagara on the lake itself. there are many, many picnic tables set up and some have umbrellas for shade. live music plays and while we missed it, there was going to be a bouncy castle for kids as the evening went one! it’s absolutely a place to take kids. you will find many toddlers happily walking around the grounds in between tables while they wait for their dinner and some will stop and dance to the music that is playing. strollers can easily be pushed around as well. my kids love eating outside any chance they get, plus with the live music and their choice of supper, it’s a pretty great deal. speaking of deal, the cost is amazing. the four of us can easily eat for much less than if we were in a restaurant. the biggest difficulty with the supper market is deciding what to eat, but this is also one of the most amazing selling features. with four of us, there is 100% going to be something we all want. on this trip, each of the kids opted for a pulled pork sandwich, i went with the tacos and andy went to a different stand for a beef brisket sandwich. i could easily rave about every bite we had (yes, i tried them all!). the kids finished their meal with a fancy ice cream sundae! we love sitting in the shade and taking in the sights, sounds and tastes of the supper market. if you are in the niagara area, mark this on your list of ‘must do’ items. you won’t be disappointed. the only disappointment we have is that we don’t live close enough to go all the time! details: the market at the village – wednesday night from 4:30 pm until 9 pm until september 20, 2017. rebecca 4 min read november 26, 2016 2 replies food gifts to give for christmas food, parenting there is no secret that i love food. and getting food as a gift is something many of us love. i mean, chocolate is always a great idea, right? this holiday season, if you are looking for an edible gift to give someone you love, here’s a list of a few items i would love to see under the tree. instead of filling our homes with more stuff, i love the idea of giving something that can be consumed, shared and enjoyed by many. take a bite out of your holiday shopping list with these food gift giving ideas! cardamom and cloves based in ottawa, this is a subscription service that will mail the lucky gift recipient a selection of three spices each month that can be used in your their own kitchen creations or to experiment with the recipes provided. for $9 or less a month, this is a spectacular gift. top shelf preserves i bought a selection of top shelf preserves for my hard-to-buy for dad last year and they were a hit. i love the variety of pickled options (i will eat anything if it’s pickled i think!) and their chutneys will be a welcome addition to any holiday spread. prince edward island preserve company every year when we are on the island we eat here and shop at the preserve company. it’s amazing and delicious. their jams are heavenly, the lemon curd almost sinful and the tea is a staple in this house. purdys chocolate i want the salted caramel chocolates, let’s just put that out there. i got a couple boxes last year and i can never have too much. there is a huge selection online and a flat rate for shipping. you can get a lot of shopping done with just a few clicks. but i recommend wrapping everything right away so you don’t tempt yourself! wine club subscriptions i’m counting wine as food. we are currently in a wine club with ravine winery and it’s amazing. it’s absolutely an indulgence for us but each month, two bottles of amazing wine shows up to our door along with an item from their pantry. every so often their smoky almonds are in the box and we have to fight over who eats the last one. there are two subscriptions with ravine (one has limited membership) but both offer discounts at the winery and delivery of wine to your door. another local niagara winery to check out for their club is chateau des charmes. their adventurer level wine club delivers two bottles of wine each month as well, one from the lcbo and one that you can only get at the winery. we love the grounds at chateau des charmes and this is a great way to introduce the wine lover on your list to more delicious ontario wine. chocolat favoris fondues since writing about chocolat favoris this summer, our love for it has not waned. i recently bought the advent calendar to enjoy! they have a lot of gift giving options online or in the store, but gifting their fondues would be a fun, unique gift. they have some packaged up in festive boxes, or paired with their chocolates in gift baskets to make your gift giving even easier! festive coffee i will never turn away coffee as a gift, especially this time of year when we are entertaining so often. i love the festive winter harvest blend from ten thousand villages each year. it’s available ground or as beans. no matter what gifts you decide to get, it’s always the thought that counts (as long as you don’t think about eating the gift ahead of time, you’ll be fine! 😉 rebecca 2 min read august 21, 2016 no reply family travel: eating local food, travel it’s no secret that when we travel, we make the food that we eat a significant part of our adventuring. we probably decide on what food to eat before we really even pick some activities. that’s why my post about places to eat at disney world was so easy to write. i’m always happy to share food recommendations. while finding amazingly delicious bites at restaurants, food trucks and small cafes is a priority for us when we travel, it’s also important that we eat locally no matter where we are staying. on extended trips when we can cook at the cottage or home we’ve rented, we love trying to find local food markets, bakeries or fisheries to buy our groceries. pei cheese, raspberries and pepperoni when we went to turks and caicos with my parents, my dad already knew where to find the fisherman to buy our lobster. he bought from the source (and to this day, it’s the best lobster i’ve ever eaten, even though i love atlantic lobster!). we found locally roasted coffee too (which is something we try to find almost always when we travel!) just like when we are in ottawa, we go to our local produce markets. this time of year when travelling in many parts of the country, it’s easy to find the farmers’ markets. peaches are in season in niagara in august and it’s one of my favourite times of year to travel there because the produce is so wonderful to eat and easy to access. in pei, we discovered the summerside farmers’ market last year and made a plan to frequent it this year. luckily for us, the market was open on wednesday evenings and saturdays making it the perfect spot to get many of our weekly groceries. we were able to buy fresh produce, bread, eggs, and all kinds of meat at the market that we needed. when travelling, finding the local flavours is a wonderful part of the experience. i think it’s important to try something new when travelling and food is a part of our adventures. i’m glad we are able to enjoy these bites and support local at the same time! rebecca 1 min read july 30, 2015 no reply recipe: garlic and tomato pizza food, recipes summer days mean easy summer suppers. my favourite meals are the most simple meals. i love being able to pack a picnic, grabbing food from a food truck, left overs; these are my types of meals. tonight we had a picnic supper at the beach! #ottawa #summervacay #latergram a photo posted by rebecca s (@bitofmomsense) on jul 13, 2015 at 5:26pm pdt that’s why when we’ve had a busy day of playing, museum visiting, playground running around and more, i am looking for something quick and simple. enter my love for the simplistic flat bread pizza. not only do you buy the crust ahead of time (hello naan), but you can use any toppings that you have in the garden or fridge. a recent brushetta-style pizza topping with grated parmesean was exactly what i wanted on a hot day. the oven barely had to be on (and if we had a bbq, which is on the list to get again soon, we could have used that too). garlic tomato flat bread pizza ingredients (makes 2 small pizzas) 2 pieces of naan 1 tomato, chopped 1 garlic clove, grated 1 green onion, chopped kraft parmesean cheese olive oil pepper directions: combine tomato, onion, garlic and a splash of olive oil. divide equally and top each naan with the mixture. sprinkle as mush grated parmesean cheese on as you like. top with pepper and drizzle a bit more olive oil. bake in the oven at 375 degrees until the sides are crisping, about 10-15 minutes. use a grill if you prefer. enjoy! disclosure: this post is part of my what’s cooking contributor partnership with kraft canada and i receive compensation as part of the program. and yes, it’s wild that i don’t have a bbq. rebecca 3 min read february 10, 2015 1 reply cookbooks lifestyle i love the internet, that is no secret. although i try to avoid googling ‘child rash on lip’ or something like that, i generally get along quite well with the world wide web. i love having resources at my finger tips, i’ve made friendships thanks to it, and created a small business to work within. however, much like my tendency to not read books on an e-reader (yet), i still have a mad crush on a good ole cook book that i can touch in my hands. there’s probably not a day that goes by that i don’t use google as a recipe assistant. as i stare at the salmon, coconut milk and sweet potatoes, i may just plug those three ingredients into the search bar and see what inspires me. or, if i’m not sure how long to cook the roast beef for, i look it up. and yet, it leaves me longing. while i can set up my ipad or laptop in the kitchen and scroll down the page as i bake, there is something tactile and engaging about recipe books themselves. we have bought all of michael smith’s books, and when andy has often gifted me gorgeous recipe books that are like art books. i love how my recipe books have splotches of melted butter on them, or flour dusted in the corners. the pages stick together because i’ve dripped sauce on them and the books instantly open to the recipes i use the most. this is something that a screen can’t replace. i like to think that one day, these books and my printed recipes will be handed down to my kids and their kids in an attempt to replicate some of their favourite childhood recipes, just as i have done with my mom’s recipe container and my grandmother’s. fellow blogger and all around lovely person aimée wimbush-bourque recently released her first cookbook (although i’ve been visiting her food blog, simple bites, for years.) it’s exactly what i love in a cookbook. beautiful images, recipes that are doable any day of the week, and ideas to improve our home cooked and home grown food. it should be noted that an entire chapter is dedicated to maple syrup and maple recipes. this book is one that’s after my own heart. the first recipe i made from it was one i had actually made from her blog before. a bacon, asparagus and egg dish that’s made in one pan. i’ve made it for brunch and supper and the taste never grows old. i’ve already looked through to plan out future recipes like an overnight oatmeal casserole, or the sticky maple blueberry pudding. i love cookbooks. and food. do you have a favourite cookbook on your shelf, or have you switched mostly to online resources? facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.