skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to footer feast design co. wordpress themes for food & lifestyle bloggers themes feast plugin blog support tutorials nav social menu email facebook instagram twitter search... feast design co. » products » foodie pro theme foodie pro theme $75.00 there’s a reason why foodie pro is the #1 selling genesis child theme–it’s the most flexible genesis child theme to date – with a minimalist style and plenty of color and typography options. there’s no need for built-in color schemes when you have the freedom to use whatever color you want! live demo (with the feast plugin) live demo (theme only) add to cart category: wordpress themes description description we highly recommend purchasing the feast plugin instead of the theme, as it contains access to all 5 themes plus modern enhancements. rad features html5 markup + mobile responsive color & typography customizer options widgetized home & recipe pages featured images flexible grid archives foodie pro featured posts widget strategic ad space pagespeed optimization ready import demo content & widgets with a few clicks digital strategy bundle ($59 value) recommended wordpress plugins wp recipe maker plugin gravity forms genesis enews extended simple social icons genesis simple share code snippets plugin for customizations wp rocket seo by yoast framework & hosting this genesis child theme requires separate purchases: genesis framework hosting with php 7.1+ theme documentation praise "foodie changed my blog (and i don't even think i've harnessed it's full potential). i've never looked back." - tash, akitchencat.com.au first impressions matter, especially when it comes to websites. you have a fraction of a second to make that first impression, and only 2-3 seconds to grab their attention with stunning food photography. foodie pro is here to make your content stand out and keep your visitors engaged. "the thing i loved most about the foodie theme is it's practicality, simplicity and ease of showcasing photos without making the blog look crammed. it's helped me 4x my page views simply because the theme is so user-friendly and makes readers want to stay." - felicia, dishbydish.net we know you'll enjoy just how simple this theme is, with best practices built right in so that you don't have to spend hours researching landing pages, conversion rate optimization, configuration settings, etc. simply install foodie pro after genesis, load in the demo content and start customizing! "with google's new update, we were looking for design that catered to foodies... having worked on genesis before, we couldnt believe when we found a theme just for foodies. well designed, well monetized, simple to setup! it just gets better..." - maria, mariasmenu.com clean. crisp. minimal. this is what we hear time and again from our customers. foodie pro is designed to be clutter-free, so that your visitors can focus on what's important. those delicious recipes you spend hours writing, baking, and staging for pictures. this keeps those beautiful pictures at the forefront, engaging your readers. "foodie pro is such a flexible theme. i love being able to customize with such a clean, crisp theme to start!" - carrie, mindywilkesdesigns.com your visitors are likely looking up food recipes on their mobile devices - at work, at the grocery store, or standing in front of the fridge at home. make sure that you're putting your best foot forward with foodie pro. "before using your theme, my mobile site looked terrible! check me out now!! i have a much cleaner site, i'm growing and every day i learn something new and awesome i can do with this theme. thank you!" - michaell, foodscape.vanillaplummedia.com we've listened to your comments and suggestions over the years and have used them to design the most food-blog friendly theme out there. a combination of proper spacing with subtle colors keep the focus on the important stuff - the delicious recipes you're creating, and witty commentary to go along with it. get your web design out of the forefront, and let your content do the talking. "foodie pro fits so perfectly with what i do. my readers can concentrate on the good stuff without the distraction of a fussy theme. perfection." -kylie, kidgredients.com.au updating your food blog theme to foodie pro is like going through a kitchen renovation - the end result is something that you could fantasize about but couldn't quite fully picture. once it's done, everything is new and exciting, and blogging becomes a joy again. "i am completely in awe of the entire look of the blog now. what a transformation it's been after installing the foodie pro theme." - arundhuti, mysaffronkitchen.net this page contains affiliate links. your clicks and purchases help support feast at no extra charge to you. we only recommend products that we're madly in love with. what do i get with my theme purchase? see this post: what am i paying for? what if i have more questions? how can i get support? we include 12 months of support and updates with theme purchases. since setup takes just a couple hours, this is 355 days longer than you actually need. we have a dedicated support team to help you get your theme set up. check out our helpful tutorials then submit a support ticket if you need additional assistance. we recommend becoming familiar with our company's principles and best practices, which outlines the direction of our theme development and guides our support policy. will this theme work with woocommerce? yes! you can read out woocommerce setup info here. please note that we don't offer support for woocommerce. is this theme pagespeed compatible? yes! our theme is compatible with plugins that specialize in pagespeed optimization. see this post for more details. version updates what's new in the releases? 4.4.0 - march 4, 2020 compatibility with genesis 3.3.0 recipe index filter + search now 100% full width on mobile updated comments styling set default entry-info color to darker grey for accessibility compliance (fixes low-contrast problems) set default entry-info hyperlinks to underline for accessibility compliance set default post hyperlinks to underline for accessibility compliance set default footer hyperlinks to underline for accessibility compliance set default sidebar hyperlinks to underline for accessibility compliance added styling for figcaption element to match block editor removed unnecessary styling from sidebar lists homepage and category page post titles set to font-size: 1em sidebar font-size reduced to 0.8em on desktop only 4.3.0 - december 6, 2019 compatibility with genesis 3.2.0 there are no theme conflicts with wordpress 5.3.0, but there are other non-theme-related issues that are outside the scope of theme support added bottom border to mobile nav menu for usability updated prev/next styling on posts added nofollow to footer link fixed text wrapping issue for titles on the homepage and category pages removed wp instagram widget recommendation + styling added instructions for the "featured posts" widget "view more" link to categories - this text should be descriptive and optimized added tutorial to modify entry meta (above content) author bio for seo in genesis 3.2.0+ added tutorial to remove entry meta (below content) for seo in genesis 3.2.0+ removed unused styling on homepage widget titles moved font-size css for entry-meta, the sidebar and footer to desktop media query, where they may caused "font size too small" warning in google search console note: this means that font-sizes of some parts of your site will be larger on the mobile version of your site, which is intentional and correct fix: remove google font styling from select element due to safari crash issue - thanks ben @ nerdpress for the legwork on this fix: change .site-title from h1 to div - h1 tags should be page-specific, not site-wide everyone should now add an h1 tag to their homepage 4.2.0 - september 2, 2019 compatibility with genesis 3.1.0 see: genesis 3.1.0 footer update fixed mobile overflow issue with comments removed genesis logo output - duplicate - feast themes already have logo output removed header right widget area 4.1.2 - august 2, 2019 bug fix: customizer unresponsive 4.1.0 - july 30, 2019 4.1.0 is the first version tested to be compatible with genesis 3.0.0+ note: we do not recommend or support the use of the blog and category page templates instead, group posts by category (topic) and link to the category pages, see: food blog site structure removed plugin install recommendations that are not public repository 4.0.8 - june 28, 2019 not compatible with genesis 3.0.0+ changed the default category (archives) page layout to better comply with modern best practices updated the default archive page layout to one-third (desktop) updated css for mobile archive display - 50% now, not 100% - better scroll flow / readability removed entry info, entry-meta (dates), and content from displaying be default - not important to visitors edited the foodie pro category page tutorial to reflect this update 4.0.6 - april 13, 2019 updated header image pin="nopin" to data-pin-nopin="true" added styling for post pagination removed automated formatting for post-info line added to tutorials: how to set a favicon updated image sizes to match theme width (720/360) added styling to center images in footer, inserted using the image widget removed automatic styling of post-meta via css (slashes being appended) 4.0.0 - december 21, 2018 added php version check for php5.6 end-of-life notification updated font-size to bring in-line with modern web standards theme width set to 720 px for consistency thumbnail sizes set to 360 px and 720 px width - height changed to "9999 px" so that all images will resize to width dimensions updated search function woocommerce styling removed due to low usage - can be found here fix: added min-height:52px; for the mobile menu items to resolve clickable elements warning updated styling to accommodate block editor (gutenberg) elements added styling for wp rocket image lazyloading 3.2.0 - october 16, 2018 updated header whitespace to be smaller, so that more content displays above-the-fold #before-content{display:none;} added for mobile, so that more content displays above-the-fold note: this may be removed outright on future versions because it's poor user-experience to request email signups before delivering the content that the user came to the site to see full write up: https://feastdesignco.com/why-we-removed-the-banner-top-on-mobile/ updated <figure> styling for gutenberg updated dashboard for consistency across themes updated theme folder to include the version so that you don't need to delete the previous version when updating 3.1.7 - august 8, 2018 (no longer supported) header changed updated header to use rather than background-image, with site title in its proper place (alt tag) header will now display at whatever resolution it's uploaded at - no coding changes required updated css to fix search-engine-unfriendly hidden-text (text-indent:-9999px;) updated footer function for ease of editing (we now recommend the "genesis simple edits" plugin as well) updated <pre> style to more closely resemble gist/github 3.1.4 - march 29, 2019 (no longer supported) renamed recipes-top to recipe-index-search renamed recipes-bottom to recipe-index-featured-posts updated aligncenter images css added more descriptive content to widget areas 3.1.1 - august 23, 2017 (no longer supported) fixed a bug in the widget read more text which caused the widget to not save correctly in some environments fixed a bug with first grid item width on smaller screens removed a deprecated genesis function for getting image sizes removed some unused legacy styles related products seasoned pro theme $125.00 add to cart brunch pro theme $75.00 add to cart cook'd pro theme $75.00 add to cart cravings pro theme $125.00 add to cart footer take an insta-peek topics food blog design and appearance productivity tech and plugins food blogging and promotion minimalist wordpress themes simple wordpress themes help documentation & tutorials food blogging resources open a support ticket your account discounts and coupons company privacy policy terms & conditions principles and best practices affiliates contact email facebook instagram twitter copyright © 2020 · feast design co. results not typical or guaranteed. our themes and plugins are just a small part of the overall effort involved in running a food blog. nothing on this website shall constitute legal or financial advice, always consult a local lawyer and accountant. × search... themes feast plugin support tutorials blog modern mobile menu social icons facebook instagram twitter