subscribe to get a free ecookbook with our top 25 recipes. income resources food blogger pro pinch of yum about recipes shop may 4, 2016 7 ways to take viral food photos okay, first things first. registration is now open for our two-day food photography workshops. these workshops are a powerful way to improve your food photography skills and refresh your creativity.… continue reading 60 comments april 18, 2016 it’s a food photography workshop extravaganza! view current available workshops announcement of the day: i loooove workshops! this obsession started brewing last year, and i have since gone off the food photography workshop deep end. in 2014-2015,… continue reading 37 comments september 9, 2015 our first ever tasty food photography workshop seriously pinch me. our first ever tasty food photography workshop has come and gone in about three little winks of an eye. on friday night, as i was “getting ready… continue reading 77 comments july 2, 2015 how to hide an image in a wordpress post since doing the april 2015 income report with our pinterest “study” where we found that, on average, long pinterest images got 70% more repins that short pinterest images, we’ve gotten so many… continue reading 242 comments january 26, 2015 5 ways to improve your food photography with artificial light for as long as i’ve been taking pictures of food, i’ve believed that beautiful food photography requires natural light. but here’s the question – does it really? for the last four years, as… continue reading 134 comments july 19, 2014 food photography: 10 tips for the pour shot dressing! sauce! toppings galore!drizzling and swirling and pouring things over my food is probably among the top 5 things i enjoy about food blogging. because my life goal is to… continue reading 130 comments february 18, 2014 the evolution of a food photo just because i think it’s funny, today i’m showing you the evolution of one of my recent food photos. it’s for the ecookbook i’m writing and it’s delicious and healthy… continue reading 80 comments january 17, 2014 artificial lighting tips for food photography i’ve been preaching natural light since before i knew what “natural light” even meant. whether food photography, portrait photography, or whatever in the whole wide world photography, natural light rules.… continue reading 265 comments november 15, 2013 ten more household items that can improve your food photos hey-o and happy friday! let’s jump right into the good stuff today – we’ve done this once before, so here goes round two! my goal for today is that you… continue reading 147 comments september 3, 2013 behind the scenes: 5 time-saving tips for food photography last week when i finished taking pictures of the zucchini parmesan, i stepped back and looked at my workspace and just laughed at my scrappy homemade system of shortcuts. i… continue reading 137 comments 1 2 next page » hey! nice to meet you! i'm lindsay: former 4th grade teacher, now full time blogger. my husband bjork and i live in minnesota. favorite things include my camera, lake days, and dark chocolate. learn more. our latest podcasts 243: best-in-class content - keyword research, creating value, and authority with ewen finser learn why keyword research is so important, what eat means, and updating content in this food blogger pro podcast episode with ewen finser. listen on itunes listen on stitcher 242: social trends - pinterest in 2020 with kate ahl what fresh content is and why it's important for pinterest, how to use pinterest trends, and how often you should be pinning with kate ahl. listen on itunes listen on stitcher 241: social trends - facebook and instagram in 2020 with abby bayatpour facebook groups as part of a social strategy, building engagement on instagram, and how to streamline writing your instagram captions with abby bayatpour. listen on itunes listen on stitcher blogging tips delivered straight to your inbox blogger resources top posts 1 avoiding blog burnout2 blogging as a couple3 building a blog while traveling4 how to start a food blog5 creating an income6 tools bloggers shouldn't live without7 photography tips start, grow, and monetize your food blog. join today. how’s this for awesome? get all of my best recipes sent to you for free! sign up to receive a free ecookbook with my top 25 most popular recipes. pinch of yum about our team sponsored content media mentions contact food & recipes blog shop recipe index sugar free january freezer meals 101 for bloggers income reports blogging resources photography resources tasty food photography sign up for email updates and get a free ecookbook with our top 25 recipes. our other brands pinch of yum copyright © 2020 an elite cafemedia food publisher back to top • privacy policy x pinch of yum a food blog with simple, tasty, and (mostly) healthy recipes. follow on pinterest