u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost food & drink. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition food & drink zone 1 18 underrated pantry items to buy at the grocery store zone 2 how to order groceries online to avoid going to the store 3 ways to support restaurants without putting delivery workers at risk the best virtual wine tastings to join during coronavirus lockdown how to disinfect food and your kitchen for coronavirus how to safely shop for groceries right now 17 simple food swaps for when you run out of ingredients coronavirus faq is it safe to order takeout right now? grocery shopping for a quarantine: what to buy and how much can coronavirus be transmitted through food? here’s what you should know. zone 3 how to prioritize your pantry and make food last longer follow these tips, and you won't waste the food you stocked up on for the coronavirus. grocery delivery is overbooked. here’s what companies are doing about it. companies like amazon fresh and instacart appear to be taking measures to fix that. how to eat healthy while working from home tricks to maintain a good food routine while you're working remotely during the coronavirus outbreak. can eating sugar weaken your immune system? here’s what to know. sugar can lower your immunity for several hours, which is not ideal for staying healthy during the coronavirus outbreak. 25 baking recipes for self-quarantine and self-care to relieve some stress and pass the time, bake these cakes, cookies, loaves and more with your pantry ingredients. 22 actually delicious recipes you can make with pantry staples self-quarantining for coronavirus? make these recipes with bread, rice, pasta, tuna, beans and other common ingredients. here’s what you’ve been cooking during your self-quarantine the pandemic is forcing you to stay indoors. but you're still cooking and finding ways to share your meals with others. how italian food imports in the u.s. will be affected by coronavirus looking for cheese, wine and olive oil? here's how restaurants and stores may be affected by the covid-19 outbreak. how to freeze the food you’re cooking for self-quarantine how to wrap it, which foods work best, how long it'll last and how to thaw it. grocery store anxiety is a real thing. here’s how to overcome it. the supermarket is filled with uncertainty — parking spots, crowds, decisions — making it a hotbed of anxiety triggers. 8 types of foods you should avoid buying at the farmers market some choices (raw milk) are obvious, while others (onions) are less obvious. 21 rice recipes to make from your pantry whether you're stuck at home or you're just too busy to shop, keep these rice dishes handy. the best foods to boost your immunity. you need these now. eat yourself to good health. 15 easy freezer meals to make now, reheat later a well-stocked freezer is the best way to get through any situation. how restaurants are radically changing to deal with coronavirus some are preparing for a world of pickup and takeout. others are feeding children who aren't getting school lunch. put down the guinness and drink this actualy irish-made booze instead there are plenty of other irish drinks for st. patrick's day. cheap eats: how to turn a bag of lentils into 3 delicious meals just because your wallet is on a budget doesn’t mean your taste buds are. is it ever really safe to eat raw eggs? from steak tartare to muscle-man protein drinks, here are the real risks raw eggs can pose. common mistakes you make cooking eggs, according to chefs whether you like your eggs scrambled, sunny side up, poached, hard-boiled or turned into an omelet, here's how to do it. food instagrammers share how they shoot and edit drool-worthy photos four influencers talk about using snapseed, lightroom, retouch and other tools to edit the perfect food pics. a grocer reveals what it's like to run a supermarket in a pandemic "it’s not the hours. it’s not the stress. it’s not the chaos. it’s just the worrying. the constant worrying about my customers and my employees." now you don't even have to touch someone for your takeout or food delivery it’s time to take social distancing seriously — including when you order takeout. here are the food apps that offer no-contact delivery. where to stock up on wine, beer and alcohol while social distancing without going broke the white claws are out — these alcohol delivery services will get you through your days and nights in. breweries hope curbside beer sales keep things hopping despite covid-19 fears for some americans, beer is even more of a necessity than toilet paper. this twist on mac and cheese is the ultimate st. patrick's day dish here's the perfect way to use up leftover corned beef. how not to be the drive-thru customer everyone hates as restaurants across the u.s. transition to takeout or delivery amid the coronavirus outbreak, here's how to improve your drive-thru etiquette. kfc temporarily stops describing its chicken as 'finger lickin' good' as the coronavirus crisis continues, the fast food chain has suspended a u.k. ad campaign that shows people licking their fingers. the best gluten-free frozen foods you can buy next time you reach for a convenience food from the gluten-free aisle, make sure it's good. um, how does grimes think hot dogs are made? the singer, who is pregnant with her first child with fiancé elon musk, said she likes eating hot dogs because "they don't kill cows" to make them. why everyone's so obsessed with 'what i eat in a day' videos youtube is rife with models, influencers and other vloggers sharing their daily diets, healthy or not. here's why people can't stop watching. how to give the shirley temple the respect it deserves the shirley temple king has brought the spotlight back on this nonalcoholic drink. how many eggs are healthy to eat? experts weigh in. eggs contain nutrients that support a healthy diet, but they also contain a large amount of cholesterol. here's what you need to know. short on time and thyme? our shopping experts reviewed home chef's meal kit service. our shopping experts put home chef's meals and subscription kit to the test. here's what they thought. february's most loved recipes from instagram grilled cheese, pastas and pancakes won our readers' hearts this month. the instant pot cooking blender that makes ice cream, soup and oat milk is half-off at walmart it does both hot and cold blending, so you can make soup, ice cream and even oat milk at home. 15 clever ways vinegar can work magic around your house vinegar has many practical household applications for cleaning, deodorizing and more. a definitive guide to which condiments need to be refrigerated ketchup, mustard, mayonnaise, vinegar ― they don't all need to be refrigerated. here are the rules. the junior's cheesecake recipe that chuck schumer spent $8,600 on if you have a sweet tooth like the senate minority leader's, you're going to want to bookmark this recipe. how to make the perfect breakfast cocktail for mardi gras this drink is the eye-opener of choice on mardi gras in new orleans. go greener with these reusable produce bag that are on sale at amazon these reusable produce bags are a must-have with amazon customers. and right now, you can get them for 40% off. see more follow us! icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. newsletter sign up the best recipes, kitchen tips and genius food facts subscribe to huffpost’s food email. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost food & drink. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.