thank you for your interest in repurposing content from forbes. pars international is the authorized reprint, permissions & licensing agent for forbes. we offer a full suite of products and services ranging from hardcopy and electronic reprints to plaques, posters, and permissions & licensing, including photocopies. were you featured on a forbes list or ranking? click here wealth advisors tell your customers you were featured on one of forbes’ 2020 wealth advisors lists! use the logo across all media, including web, social, print, broadcast, digital and direct mail platforms. promote the logo in your email signature, reports, on your stationery and in your print and electronic brochures and fliers. celebrate your achievement with plaques, framed prints, posters and desktop crystals for display throughout your office. get started licensing leverage your positive edit with marketing and promotional licensing. the pars team will customize licensing packages to suit your needs. typical uses include, but are not limited to: owned media such as your corporate website and organic social media paid media including digital and print media, paid social, and ooh in-store display third-party retail trade shows & events corporate presentations, reports and newsletters get started if you are looking for non-promotional use (you need to include a headline, excerpt or article in your book, film, tv, museum or educational project), please click below. permissions reprints and e-prints superior-quality print or electronic replications of original editorial coverage featuring your company, product, service or industry. reprints are produced in hard copy and are perfect for mailings, trade shows and pop display. e-prints are pars-hosted and pdf-formatted digital reprints authorized for posting and distribution. get started products and merchandise custom products can stimulate good press at trade events, sales meetings, and throughout your corporate office. plaques, posters, banners, framed prints, crystal desktop awards and counter cards can enhance high traffic areas, showrooms, trade show exhibits and pop displays. these high-quality products are also ideal for presentation as personal gifts to commemorate awards and special achievements. custom merchandise – everything from pens and mugs to id holders and t-shirts – can be co-branded with your company name or logo and the accolade or award you have received. let us know your needs and we’ll recommend the best product for you. get started looking for permissions? work with pars to license content for non-promotional use. if you need to include a headline, excerpt or article in your book, film, tv, museum or educational project, we are here to help! click here about us contact us privacy policy get started services permissions order now our partners who we represent become a partner © 2020 pars international corp. all rights reserved home partners become a partner services contact us get started permissions privacy policy start typing