related blogs antiviral art the best restaurant in new york blackbag defamer disputations documents dodgeandburn dog domesticity drugs fine vining fortress america frenchgawker weird internet interviews justice morning after phasezero politburo rankings gawker review of books sausage slowgawker sony hack one man's take the cuck themachines the vane the west tktk true stories valleywag we caused isis and we can't stop it, but it may eat itself eventually adam weinstein · 06/03/15 12:40pm who’s to blame for isis’s rise to power in syria and iraq? how do we stop it? what’s the end goal really look like? if you read gawker’s april interview with badass intel officer malcolm nance, you know a bit about these questions. he offers more (depressing) background today in the intercept. fbi admits it uses fake companies to fly surveillance over u.s. cities adam weinstein · 06/02/15 11:05am an ap investigation has forced the fbi to admit that it uses at least 13 dummy corporations with planes like the one shown above to fly low-and-slow aerial spy missions over u.s. cities, capturing video and sometimes cellular signals from 30 cities in 11 states in a recent month. meet the elite u.s.-trained special forces chief who just joined isis adam weinstein · 05/28/15 04:17pm in addition to an aggressive goatee, gulmurod khalimov has a certain set of skills. he commands tajikistan’s special forces, trained and funded by american military whizzes. or he did, before recently turning up in a youtube video saying he’s gone to syria to fight with the islamic state. white lunatic arrested for terrorizing kindly muslim couple at gunpoint adam weinstein · 05/28/15 11:40am majida and adly abumayaleh were just driving across their suburban minneapolis-area neighborhood on a friday night to get their teen son from a party. until a self-appointed watchwoman, nancy kay knoble, decided they might be agents of international jihad and grabbed a rifle. israel-hating obama to sell israel $1.9 billion worth of bombs adam weinstein · 05/21/15 11:29am leading sharia shaykh and muslim brother-in-chief barack obama, who fiendishly vowed to “reassess” the united states’ special relationship with israel, has finally laid bare his plans to kill the vulnerable jewish state and its fragile democracy: he will choke it to death with billions in new bombs and missiles. saudi arabia seeks 8 new executioners for all these dang beheadings adam weinstein · 05/18/15 02:39pm shit is tough for the kingdom of saudi arabia. you gotta sell the oil, keep it chummy with the united states, and also prove you deserve to run things around the holiest sites for all muslims. which means you gotta be holier than thou. which means you gotta get more sword-happy head-cutter-offers. john bolton doesn't wanna be the president of you weak-ass nancies adam weinstein · 05/14/15 12:34pm come on, america, you knock-kneed purty little princess. did you really think you could handle being ruled by a potus so potent he grows surplus pubes on his stiff upper lip? remember when a u.s. terror ally massacred 1,000 people and we shrugged? adam weinstein · 05/13/15 12:39pm ten years ago today, in the fergana valley of uzbekistan, a mass of people gathered to protest arrests and violence by state police. authorities shot at least 1,000 to death. the figures remain sketchy, in part because u.s. officials—led by donald rumsfeld—opposed an investigation of a valued partner in the war on terror. pentagon workers used dod credit cards for sexy times with vegas escorts adam weinstein · 05/07/15 11:57am a soon-to-be-released military audit will reveal that “a number of pentagon employees” gambled and solicited escorts in atlantic city and las vegas on the taxpayer dime, prompting one u.s. senator to remind civil servants not to use their government credit cards “for prostitutes.” tweeting heroes catch feds' surveillance planes spying on baltimore adam weinstein · 05/06/15 11:30am last week, we told you about the department of homeland security’s “fusion center” in baltimore and its ability to spy on baltimore during the city’s unrest. but where would it get its info? thanks to a few enterprising twitter users, we have one possible answer: nondescript spy planes circling the city. guy at jfk with $19,000 worth of coke in his butt isn't fooling anyone adam weinstein · 05/04/15 10:27am in this politically charged atmosphere, we rarely hear of u.s. border-patrol success stories. so let us commend the intrepid customs agents who bravely saved a bevy of junior goldman vps from huffing a pound of artisanal taint-roasted blow after it nestled near this nervous flier’s anus. naval hovercraft wipes out kayaker off florida coast adam weinstein · 04/27/15 12:40pm florida and navy officials revealed last friday that they’re investigating an incident in which a u.s. navy hovercraft being operated off-base by military contractors ran over a kayaker at high speed, leaving him bloodied in the water off panama city beach. rand paul will gay-marry a drone if that's what you really want, america adam weinstein · 04/27/15 09:30am rand paul, the great white hope, presumed enemy of extrajudicial killings from the air, shocked and disappointed his libertarian disciples today by embracing drone warfare and defending president obama’s use of flying death machines to immolate two hostages held by al qaeda. dang, penn and teller look like shit these days adam weinstein · 04/22/15 12:38pm but man, watch them make ukraine disappear! here's a treasury of dick cheney creeper shots, courtesy of the ap adam weinstein · 04/22/15 09:54am in searching for a photo to accompany this post recounting old and new instances of dick cheney’s iran warmongering, i discovered something weird: associated press photographers had amassed a trove of shots of cheney creepily lurking behind dubya for eight damn years. remember when bush and cheney fought over bombing iran? adam weinstein · 04/22/15 09:52am there was dick cheney, as always, arguing that the only way to deal with iran was to bomb it back to 1953. but president george w. bush, on the unanimous advice of his generals, decided such a campaign would be a disaster—and cheney began an end run that’s working wonders with today’s top republicans. mike huckabee tells patriots: don't join military until obama's gone adam weinstein · 04/20/15 01:16pm in 2007, folksy war addict mike huckabee told meet the press viewers that it’s dangerous “to oppose a sitting commander in chief while we’ve got people being shot at on the ground.” but it’s election time! so now, willing americans, stay out of the military until you have a commander in chief that pleases huck. dumb marco rubio has a dumb plan to expand gitmo, torture more folks adam weinstein · 04/15/15 12:58pm desperate to stand apart from the pack and court soccer moms with a thirst for waterboarding, future presidential also-ran marco rubio staked out a remarkable policy position on day one of his campaign: he'd grow the detainee population at guantánamo and "aggressively" pump prisoners for intelligence. update: tom cotton is not real adam weinstein · 04/13/15 10:39am last week, we posed a question. this week, we have an answer: "senator tom cotton," republican of arkansas, is in fact not a natural human organism, but a hybrid experiment in which the brain of german general erich friedrich wilhelm ludendorff has been grafted onto the frame of a pugnacious giraffe. bush officials screwed up fbi's case against blackwater, emails show adam weinstein · 04/13/15 09:19am why did it take the federal government so long to prosecute the blackwater contractors who shot up a baghdad square in 2007, killing and maiming scores of iraqis? because investigators were trying to wait out the bush administration, which wanted to go easy on the killers, recently unearthed documents show. next page terms of service privacy policy