menu themes packages blog help themes packages blog help themes packages blog help login forumengine (4.4/5 - 157 votes) build your online community without worries it would be abandoned. forumengine is optimized for a more social interaction. help center demo buy now $49 sitepoint forumengine is basically a modified version of wordpress posts + comments, combined with front-end controls and easy administration. and they know how to make slick designs. chad fullerton looks beautiful, and has very intuitive controls. plus the badges system... it has everything! great job enginethemes team! you've knocked it out of the park on this theme. rogue london just purchased this... hope i win the free one but worth every dollar anyway!!! thanks for really thinking about your product... how it works frontend magic backend power help center demo buy now $49 how forumengine works for your site! post a thread browse topics just like other forums, users may reply or click to like/dislike a topic. the topic here could be a question or an opinion. user also can insert link or picture in it. there are different positions for you to display the advertisements, which can be considered as a great way to get your revenue. quickly find out the information with ajax live search: write down a keyword then a list of related posts will appear. a private space is offered, users can access this and manage all the activities relevant to their posted threads. scroll down and see the full content right in the current page. forumengine is powerful & highly customizable in the frontend! style customizer frontend controls mobile version simple and modern design user badges system live notification system style customizer change the style & appearance right in your homepage frontend controls publish and edit content without leaving your homepage mobile version from large screens to mobile devices – your site will always appear beautifully simple and modern design forumengine is built with simplicity and improved user interactions to keep your site up with smart innovations in design user badges system creating your own rules for users activating on your site, with each badge, users have right to access or change status on your forum live notification system users will be notified every important action happens on the site to catch up with what’s happening the core engine & features behind the scene! engine settings sidebars translation support seo optimized installation & update general: easily manage all the general information of your site in your admin panel including website’s title, description, social links… and much more sidebars: multiple widgets are ready for your drag and drop sidebar widgets to extend the customizability of the theme a built-in translator is included for translating text right in your dashboard. with built-in translator supported, you can quickly translate and change text without any hassle. using wpml plugin to use more than one language on your site. let it reach out to more users. schema markup support for seo: tell search engines what your data means, not just what it says using schema markup. compatible with seo plugins like yoast wordpress seo: boost up your seo with other third-party plugins. get more traffic and expand your pocket. enter license key to update right from your dashboard: insert your license key to the update section and you’ll get notification whenever there’s a new update. forumengine pricing plans single theme $49 forumengine theme unlimited websites basic child themes full psd package documentation 12 months of free updates 12 months of official support get it now community package take20%off $139$109 forumengine & qaengine unlimited websites basic child themes full psd packages documentation 12 months of free updates 12 months of official support get it now products themes extensions package plans showcase company blog contact us faqs support documentation help changelogs support policy recommended affiliates promotions privacy policy terms of service our newsletters get noticed when we release new products. copyright © 2010 - 2020 enginethemes. all rights reserved. our facebook our twitter enginethemes uses cookies to improve your experience. we'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. accept or read more