skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress skip to content support forums documentation get involved search for: search forums welcome to support our community-based support forums are a great place to learn, share, and troubleshoot. get started documentation your first stop where you'll find information on everything from installing to creating plugins. explore documentation get involved the support handbook is great for tips, tricks, and advice regarding giving the best support possible. explore the handbook installing wordpress if you encounter any problems while setting up wordpress. view forum fixing wordpress for any problems encountered after setting up wordpress. view forum developing with wordpress for those looking to do more advanced things with wordpress. view forum networking wordpress questions and discussions about running a network of wordpress sites. view forum accessibility assistive technologies such as screen readers, keyboard-only navigation, and voice control. view forum localhost installs if wordpress is, or will be, installed on your own computer. view forum everything else wordpress for relevant questions and problems not covered in the other forums. view forum requests and feedback feature requests; criticism. view forum alpha/beta/rc feedback and bug reports on development versions of wordpress. view forum themes and plugins looking for help with a specific theme or plugin? head to the theme or plugin's page and find the "view support forum" link to visit the theme or plugin's individual forum. all topics | topics with no replies | unresolved topics | about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.