home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources category: founders read more featured / founders #120: jerrick warren – how career karma’s first member became a software engineer at gemini by julio rodriguez on december 6, 2019 jerrick warren has an inspiring story of breaking into the blockchain tech startup gemini coming from a background in medicine. he went from joining the career karma community, to getting accepted into lambda school to… read more featured / founders #118: darrell silver – ceo of thinkful by julio rodriguez on september 30, 2019 darrell silver is the ceo and co-founder of thinkful. their mission? to build the world’s next workforce. since its inception in 2012, thinkful has graduated thousands of students. founded based on two elements – transparency… read more featured / founders #117: chok ooi – ceo of kenzie academy by julio rodriguez on september 24, 2019 coming to the states with two suitcases and a pocketful of dreams, chock ooi is currently the ceo of kenzie academy. chok is a startup veteran working at places like loopt and agilityio, and is… read more featured / founders #115: angela ceresnie – ceo of climb credit on helping to finance people’s career transitions by julio rodriguez on july 1, 2019 angela ceresnie is the ceo of climb credit. she has experience working in and starting multiple startups. she has led teams at citibank and american express. interestingly, she studied computer engineering at the university of… read more featured / founders #114: phaedra ellis – ceo of promise on how to build power and take control of your career by julio rodriguez on may 27, 2019 phaedra ellis is the ceo of promise, a startup that uses technology for good in the process to change the criminal justice system. prior to this, she was the leader of the south bay labor… read more featured / founders #110: dan rosensweig – ceo of chegg, the playbook for the modern day student by julio rodriguez on february 12, 2019 dan rosensweig is the ceo of chegg, an american education company with the aim to provide education that is less expensive, more available, more affordable, and more relevant. on the podcast, dan explains how it’s… read more featured / founders #109: cameron yarbrough – ceo of torch, on the importance of mental health & coaching by timur meyster on february 6, 2019 cameron yarbrough is the ceo of torch and one of the best leadership and executive coaches in the world. in this episode, cameron talks about coaching for everyone! how torch got its start and the… read more featured / founders #108: dan sommer, ceo and founder of trilogy education, workforce accelerator for leading universities and companies by timur meyster on january 7, 2019 dan sommer is the ceo and co-founder of trilogy education services. dan has launched partnerships with over 37 of the world’s leading universities, providing alternative forms of education on their campuses. they have instructors teaching… read more featured / founders #107: rich smith – how a college dropout became a senior engineer at netflix by timur meyster on december 11, 2018 announcements: watch the video recording of this episode on youtube www.youtube.com/watch?v=5rg8sheq1ns rich smith is a senior ui engineer at netflix but did you know this was his 17th job? today, he talks about how he… next subscribe be the first to get the latest breaking into startups podcast updates, right to your inbox. we’ll never spam you. our guests came from: about us the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds.our mission is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. facebook twitter instagram © 2020 breaking into startups. privacy policy top join 1,055 other subscribers! email subscribe now we respect your privacy. join our newsletter today! stay updated with all the latest episodes, upcoming events & much more. hack reactor prep prepare for any coding bootcam (free) learn more no thanks!