home politics cltv mediabites search this site: search login | register username: * password: * forgot password? remember my login on this computer media bites 3/27/20 10:06am read time: 2 minutes comments fox and friends pretends trump is sympathetic to ny's need for ventilators. ainsley earhardt completely re-words dear leader's response to gov. cuomo's plea for 30,000 ventilators. by aliza worthington 3 hours ago by heather views: the bobos at fox and friends spent about two full minutes complaining that the covid-19 economic relief bill was a "two-trillion-dollar slush fund" because of relatively small, seemingly unrelated expenditures that got added. geraldo rivera joined them and basically said, whatever, this is how the sausage is made, just get it done. you start to question your sanity when you agree with geraldo, but it doesn't last long, because then he started minimizing the need for ventilators in ny. geraldo cites dr. deborah birx (who has lost whatever credibility she had, now demurring to trump) saying there are still available hospital beds and ventilators in new york, as if those need to all be used up before they can ask for more. as if predicting and planning aren't useful tools for fighting this pandemic. as if jury-rigging single ventilators to work for multiple patients was a perfectly acceptable way to go. when he starts waxing romantic about trump's approval ratings, and how we should all rally behind this "wartime president," you'll surely be reaching for the barf bag. finally, we have ainsley earhardt taking the cake with her obvious re-write of trump's horrible dismissal of gov. andrew cuomo's plea for 30,000 ventilators. earhardt: they're all playing the blame game, and i was watching sean hannity interview the president last night, and the president said, "look," to governor cuomo, he said, "look, 30,000 ventilators? i would love to give you those, but some hospitals only have one." he said, "do you really need 30,000? if you do, we'll do our best," but he said, "it's complicated, it's expensive to make," so, i agree with you, geraldo, i think it's not time to do the blame game. actually, trump said, "i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators. you go into a hospital and they have two ventilators and all of a sudden the need 30,000 ventilators?" that's what he said. he didn't promise to do his best. he didn't say they're expensive. he didn't say he'd love to give cuomo the ventilators. he said he did not believe ny needed them. period. nice try, ms. earhardt. tags: ainsley earhardt, covid-19, fox and friends, gaslighting, gov. cuomo, trump, ventilators facebook twitter pinterest flipboard email can you help us out? for 16 years we have been exposing washington lies and untangling media deceit. we work 7 days a week, 16 hours a day for our labor of love, but with rising hosting and associated costs, we need your help! could you donate $20 for 2020? please consider a one time or recurring donation of whatever amount you can spare. it will be greatly appreciated and help us continue our mission of exposing the real fake news! donate via: kindest donate via paypal or mail checks to: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 more c&l coverage fox & friends revisionist history of trump's denial that new york needs ventilators fox & friends lies about what trump said just the night before with sean hannity about new york's need for ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by heather mike pence gaslights cuomo's request for ventilators pence refused to answer governor cuomo. wow. mar 24, 2020 by john amato trump 'doesn't believe' we don't need so many ventilators good to know, stable genius! mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump puts off chinese president to call hannity and complain about the real victim—trump there was absolutely nothing in the conversation with hannity that demonstrated that trump had the slightest sense of what was really happening in the world around him, or that he was going to lift a finger to help. mar 27, 2020 by mark sumner andrew cuomo demands hhs release 20k stockpiled ventilators "release the ventilators!" and cuomo also notes that hhs starts with the word "health"!!! mar 24, 2020 by david trump quotes 'stupidest man on the internet' to attack cuomo for not buying ventilators in 2015 trump quotes 'stupidest man on the internet, a.k.a. the gateway pundit, to attack new york gov. cuomo for not buying ventilators in 2015. mar 24, 2020 by heather comments we welcome relevant, respectful comments. any comments that are sexist or in any other way deemed hateful by our staff will be deleted and constitute grounds for a ban from posting on the site. please refer to our terms of service (revised 3/17/2016) for information on our posting policy. latest fox and friends pretends trump is sympathetic to ny's need for ventilators. ainsley earhardt completely re-words dear leader's response to gov. cuomo's plea for 30,000 ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by aliza worthington trump 'doesn't believe' we don't need so many ventilators good to know, stable genius! mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump admits his 'issues' with michigan's woman governor are affecting covid aid what the hell, donald. grow up and do your job. mar 27, 2020 by john amato trump's 'easter' schedule is all about the brunch money of course trump's hotels have a profit center around the after-church easter buffets. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum jimmy kimmel interviews joe biden about the coronavirus crisis "speed matters," biden said about trump's response. mar 27, 2020 by susie madrak view all » latest from cltv governor cuomo's henry v speech: 'we will tell our grandchildren and shed a tear' andrew cuomo speaks to new york national guard troops in a speech that will long be remembered. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum fox & friends revisionist history of trump's denial that new york needs ventilators fox & friends lies about what trump said just the night before with sean hannity about new york's need for ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by heather trump to hannity: 'i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators' "you know, you go to major hospitals, sometimes they have 2 ventilators." says stable genius. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump whines to hannity about governor whitmer of course the strong woman governor is a problem for donald. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum tucker carlson attacks the media for reporting on the dangers of trump promoting untested covid-19 treatments fox's tucker carlson goes after the media for daring to report on trump's dangerous rhetoric promoting experimental coronavirus treatments. mar 27, 2020 by heather visit cltv » stay connected facebook twitter flipboard feeds daily newsletter our daily top picks right to your inbox email name name="b_1b79560977ef0d50a412db2c8_d4904be7bc" tabindex="-1" value=""> staff editor & publisher john amato managing editor karoli kuns associate editors aliza worthington frances langum heather nicole belle susie madrak contributors chris capper li... dale merrill david ed scarce jenn budd newshound ellen red painter webmaster jamie support c&l or by snail mail: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 ©2020 crooks and liars footer about us feeds contact terms of service privacy dmca search this site: search home cltv politics media bites entertainment activism sports tech green business yesteryear misc