australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 06:03 edt | updated 7 hours ago fox host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone “they are human beings," he said after the treasury secretary called unemployment numbers "not relevant." by lee moran, huffpost us fox business host neil cavuto fiercely criticized treasury secretary steve mnuchin’s suggestion that soaring claims for unemployment benefits are “not relevant” at this stage of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. almost 3.3 million americans ― a record number ― filed for unemployment last week as employers nationwide shuttered businesses in a bid to stop the spread of the virus that has forced almost one-fifth of the world’s population into lockdown. mnuchin told cnbc thursday morning he thought “these numbers right now are not relevant, and you know, whether they’re bigger or smaller in the short-term.” cavuto fired back at the tone of mnuchin’s comments on his show, “cavuto coast to coast.” “well, mr. secretary, they are relevant to those people,” he said. “those are three-and-a-quarter million americans that don’t have jobs anymore. now, you might look at them as an aberration or whatever. but they matter to those people because, you know what? they don’t have jobs.” “tone is everything, and i think that’s a very dismissive, condescending, just a dumbass tone,” cavuto added. fox business correspondent charlie gasparino agreed. “i mean, it is just horrible,” he said. “you’ve got to choose your words very carefully,” cavuto later said. “they are human beings who are desperately looking for something.” check out the clip here: a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic why trump is wrong to compare coronavirus to the flu how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off got anxiety? here are 6 cheap mental health resources. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 12 zoom hacks for work meetings and virtual happy hours how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction lee moran reporter, huffpost more: fox news coronavirus steven mnuchin neil cavuto trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.