skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search frameworks home » frameworks 12 best wordpress theme frameworks 2020 march 22, 2020 aigars frameworks, theme collections 20 comments wordpress theme frameworks present webmasters with the fundamental functionality and enable them to make modifications to their appearance and functionality. if you’ve been using wordpress for some time now, you probably already know that customizing a theme wasn’t as easy… read more→ 15 free material design frameworks for developers 2018 july 31, 2018 alex ivanovs frameworks 1 comment google's material design has reached way beyond what many designers predicted at first and is now a commonly used design standard for developing mobile websites, android applications, and also desktop software. google even went as far as implementing the native… read more→ everything you need to know about wordpress theme frameworks march 15, 2016 rafay ansari frameworks 2 comments back in the day when wordpress was brand new, there were a lot of problems with theme development and maintenance. wordpress theme frameworks changed that forever. wordpress theme frameworks provide webmasters with the basic functionality of a theme and gives… read more→ gentry – web platform theme framework october 17, 2013 aigars frameworks 0 comments gentry is a clean, modern and easy to use wordpress theme framework which is build on top of powerful web interface. you can tweak any aspect of this theme using dozens of different options to change colors, fonts, widgets, layouts, background images and much more. gentry is fully responsive theme framework and is available for both joomla! and wordpress which is something no other framework developer have taken into account. the main thing about this theme framework is that it’s free. read more→ bootstart – responsive wordpress starter theme october 17, 2013 aigars frameworks 0 comments bootstart is a clean, responsive and modern wordpress starter theme that can be used for various purposes. this starter theme is not blank website looking which means that you can use it right out of the box without further optimization. however, starter theme main audience is developers and bootstart will please its audience really well. this theme is developed on top of famous bootstrap fronted framework meaning that theme is fully responsive and features crucial features such as mobile menu, shortcodes, slider and other awesome tools for you to explore. read more→ thesis 2.0 – diy theme framework october 11, 2013 aigars frameworks 0 comments thesis 2.0 is diy theme framework for faster website and theme development. it is not just for faster development but is also fastest to load in comparison to other theme frameworks. thesis is designed mainly to be used for blog and magazine themes, however, you can push it forward if you really want to. it is not as customizable and complex as canvas theme framework but no everyone needs fancy features that no one will use. thesis is one of the most popular theme frameworks and is used for thousands of top bloggers. it has this special aura that makes bloggers to choose this framework and then stick with it along the way. read more→ canvas – a wordpress theme with complete style control october 11, 2013 aigars frameworks 6 comments canvas is clean, minimalistic and beautiful wordpress theme framework or so called starter theme that you can use as-is or customize it via theme options. canvas theme options provides with over 100 different values you can tweak to change font size, color, background, widget styling, layout width, featured image size and way how they are generated. nothing is impossible here. if something can’t be done via theme options you can easily create your own child theme. code is well commented and documented so it will be very easy to get started with it. read more→ themify builder – the themify drag & drop builder for wordpress october 10, 2013 aigars frameworks 0 comments themify builder is a easy to use drag & drop wordpress theme framework that that allows you to arrange your content by dragging and dropping in a live preview mode.which means that you will see how the actual content will look once you are done. it is not abstract widget style interface where you have no idea about the actual website design until you publish it. all building happens in frontend and you see your website during the entire process. this wordpress theme framework includes several very useful modules like portfolio, sliders, maps, testimonials, tabs, gallery, box, accordion, buttons, images and other that makes theme development quick and fun. end results will look professional, clean and modern regardless your continues effort to ruin it. read more→ pagelines dms – free wordpress theme framework october 10, 2013 aigars frameworks 0 comments pagelines dms is a easy to use wordpress theme framework built around drag & drop interface which means you don’t need to write an actual code unless you really want to. this is one of the best performing drag & drop framework you can find. it functions similar to google developer tools you can find in google chrome. if you are familiar with that it won’t be hard to get started with pagelines dms. drag & drop is really nice addition to theme development, so non-developers can build their own custom themes and website. this is something you can’t do with a regular wordpress installation. read more→ headway – drag and drop theme builder for wordpress october 10, 2013 aigars frameworks 0 comments headway is a clean and easy to use theme framework which will be perfect fit for non-developers or developer who have just started. it has original drag and drop theme builder for wordpress that allows you to customize your every detail of your website including page layout, fonts, colors and much more. it is the most flexible theme framework for faster theme development. read more→ disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×