video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map franchises franchises franchising provides owners with a proven model and opportunities to evolve the system the value of owning a franchise is the operating system. rick bisio | 5 min read 8 of the best house-maintenance franchises you can buy now the time to start a cleaning company is now. matthew mccreary | 4 min read how this franchise ceo learned to lead by making mistakes speedpro president and ceo larry oberly is haunted by some of his earliest missteps as a manager. but today, that's made him a better boss. stephanie schomer | 4 min read what franchises should know before hiring a pr firm franchisors and franchisees alike can benefit from a talented pr firm that can get the attention of new customers. here's how to find a match. hayden field | 3 min read why this entrepreneur left tesla to open a tech repair franchise minhthe nguyen used to be an overworked silicon valley engineer. now, as a ubreakifix franchisee, he's still overworked -- but happier than ever. stephanie schomer | 4 min read more from this topic franchise 500 the top 20 franchises of 2020 from the entrepreneur franchise 500 these 20 franchises start the new decade atop our franchise 500 list. matthew mccreary | 10 min read franchises when a company outgrows its founders: how a little breakfast chain plans to go big eggs up grill is a quirky, homegrown, southeast breakfast chain. with new owners and a mandate to grow, the brand has a delicate balance to strike. clint carter | 15 min read chick-fil-a chick-fil-a makes more per restaurant than mcdonald's, starbucks and subway combined … and it's closed on sundays why a restaurant that's closed on sundays makes more per restaurant than any other fast food restaurant in the country. matthew mccreary | 3 min read franchise 500 the top children's businesses on the franchise 500 these top-ranked franchises are great for entrepreneurs who love kids. matthew mccreary | 4 min read franchise 500 the 19 oldest franchises on the franchise 500 these businesses have all been franchising for 60 years or more. matthew mccreary | 6 min read franchises 5 things franchise owners should know about the new department of labor rule on 'joint employment' the trump administration's new rule will change what qualifies as joint employment. jessica thomas | 4 min read entrepreneur mindset mark wahlberg's secret to becoming more disciplined the actor and entrepreneur's greatest business asset is his own diligence. jason feifer | 12 min read franchise 500 franchise 500: our definitive ranking of 2020's strongest franchises get to know the year's top trends, toughest brands, and explore what might be your best opportunity. entrepreneur staff | 7 min read franchise 500 #1 on the franchise 500: even without the 'donuts', dunkin' takes the cake the #1 company on our franchise 500 list has expanded what it's known for -- and grown its customer base. maggie ginsberg | 14 min read franchise 500 #2 on the franchise 500: delivery and booze are boosting taco bell's sales the #2 company on our franchise 500 list is now looking to find its next big success overseas. liz brody | 2 min read franchising is a way for companies to expand their business by licensing the rights to third-party retailers or individuals -- or franchisees -- who then can use the franchise's logo, name and business model. there are three different kinds of franchises. they include: distributorships, such as withtoyota, which licenses the right for a third party to sell the parent company product. trademark licensing, which allows companies to buy the right to use the parent company's trademark along with their own brand, such as what coca-cola licenses to other companies. business format franchises, such as subway, which offer its franchisees the right to sell its goods and/or services using its business model. popular franchises: some examples of popular and well-known franchise models are in the food industry -- many of which have gone international -- such as mcdonald's, subway and pizza hut. starbucks, which is commonly thought to be a franchise, is not. for more information about top franchise businesses, check out entrepreneur's 2016 franchise 500® rankings, or get the entrepreneur franchise 500. 1 2 3 4 ... 216 company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account