video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map franchises franchising provides owners with a proven model and opportunities to evolve the system the value of owning a franchise is the operating system. next article --shares add to queue grow your business, not your inbox stay informed and join our daily newsletter now! email will be used in accordance with our privacy policy image credit: natali_mis | getty images rick bisio guest writer author and franchise coach march 26, 2020 5 min read opinions expressed by entrepreneur contributors are their own. one of the major differences between joining a franchise system and inventing your own business is the degree of independence and control enjoyed by the owner. there are pros and cons to both, and most people seem to have an opinion about which system is better. both approaches have merit — which is best depends mostly on the preferences of the individual and what they want to put into and get out of the business. related: 7 things you need to know before becoming a franchise owner the basics of owning versus franchising independent owners create every aspect of their business. through trial and error, the independent business owner builds an operating system that allows the business to successfully attract and retain customers. this includes everything from building the business to marketing it, as well as identifying or creating systems for inventory, the website, social media and all other aspects of the business. franchise owners, on the other hand, don’t have to invent the operating system. in a proven franchise system, all aspects of the operating system have already been tested and proven by the franchisor. a business operating system has been established by the franchisor to accelerate the franchisees' ability to create successful businesses. in fact, the system is part of what the owner is buying when joining the franchise, and the franchisor has the right to ask them to follow their system. as a franchise coach, i ask people what they believe they are purchasing in a franchise. a lot of people will say they are buying the brand or the system but believe they get to own the product. that is not the case. they do not own the product or the company’s trademarks or logo. a franchise is a license, and the franchisee buys the right to use the franchisor’s business operating system within the exclusive territory as defined in the contract. related: why this entrepreneur left tesla to open a tech repair franchise the benefits of the system some people have said to me that they want to get involved with a great, proven franchise but they don’t want to be told what to do. new franchisees need to realize that the value they get from owning a franchise is the operating system — and they should want to follow the system. having that system in place is extremely beneficial in the early years of owning a franchise, because in order to run a successful business, the owner doesn't need to determine what products they will sell, what equipment they will use or what kind of media messaging and company branding they need to reach their target audience. that is all put in place by the franchisor, and it is very helpful for the franchise owners. an important part of franchising is having a system to help guide its owners, but franchisees do have some control in how to run their business, and they can often tweak the system to improve its operations. the franchisor provides guidance, but the day-to-day operations are the responsibility of the franchisee. under the joint-employer ruling, individual franchisees can hire and fire their employees and determine their work schedules and pay. that gives franchisees greater control over who works at their establishment and has a direct impact on the success of the business. many times, pricing varies in different parts of the country because markets are different and the decision of what to charge the customer is determined by the franchise owner. one example of this is the mcdonald’s breakfast menu. several years ago, mcdonald’s responded to customer demand to have items like egg mcmuffins and sausage biscuits available beyond breakfast hours by introducing an all-day breakfast menu. the company discovered that the popularity of certain items varied by location, so it might not make sense to have every single breakfast item on every single menu across the country. in 2019, the chain announced it would let its franchisees determine which breakfast foods to serve all day. related: how franchisees and franchisors can master their relationship franchise systems respond and evolve as franchisees become comfortable being part of the system, they may become more inclined to suggest or try something new. if a new idea from a franchisee is successful, the franchisor may recognize it and even incorporate it into the rest of the system. subway’s “five dollar footlong” promotion, which included a discounted price for the 12-inch sandwich and featured a catchy advertising jingle, kicked off during the recession in march 2009 and was an immediate hit since many customers were experiencing tight financial times. sales increased 25 percent during the first two weeks of the promotion, and it generated $3.8 billion in nationwide sales by august of that year. despite having a team full of talented advertising and marketing professionals, the idea for the campaign did not come from subway’s corporate office. it originated with a franchisee in miami five years prior as a way for his restaurant to boost sagging sales on the weekend. it became an instant success and caught the attention of the franchisor, who later implemented the special across all locations. a quality franchisor is always looking for ways to improve the system, and having the input, feedback and suggestions from the franchisees’ experiences is one important way to do that. it's a constant process for the franchisor to bring all of the franchisees' experiences together, incorporate them into the operating documents and share them with the other franchisees for the benefit of the whole system. more from entrepreneur get heaping discounts to books you love delivered straight to your inbox. we’ll feature a different book each week and share exclusive deals you won’t find anywhere else. sign up now jumpstart your business. entrepreneur insider is your all-access pass to the skills, experts, and network you need to get your business off the ground—or take it to the next level. join now entrepreneur store scours the web for the newest software, gadgets & web services. explore our giveaways, bundles, "pay what you want" deals & more. shop now related books the franchisee handbook buy from the franchisee handbook buy from amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read franchise bible buy from franchise bible buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read the naming book buy from the naming book buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read the unstoppable journal buy from the unstoppable journal buy from amazon entrepreneur books ultimate guide to link building buy from ultimate guide to link building buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read career rehab buy from career rehab buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read latest on entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account franchises 8 of the best house-maintenance franchises you can buy now franchises how this franchise ceo learned to lead by making mistakes franchises what franchises should know before hiring a pr firm franchises why this entrepreneur left tesla to open a tech repair franchise franchise 500 24 top-ranked, affordable franchises you can buy for $25,000 or less