video webinars start a business subscribe books franchise home quiz: find your franchise business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map business & franchise opportunities looking to buy a business? browse through our collection of franchise opportunities. when choosing a franchise, you want to find a business that produces quality products and services for consumers. some factors to consider when choosing a franchise are the initial investment, capital requirements, business financing, current trends and the amount of time it will take to get your business up and running. refine search quick search main business opportunities home-based low cost international ranked in the franchise 500 part time new opportunities finance your franchise categories automotive business services childrens products and services cleaning and maintenance education and training fitness & beauty food and restaurant health and personal care home products and services industrial internet & technology low cost pets & supplies retail sports and recreation travel and lodging vending search a-z abc a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z # featured opportunities jimmy john’s ranked #1 in the franchise 500®, jimmy john’s has been making fresh, fast, tasty sandwiches since 1983. request free info elements massage we’re in the business of taking the stress out of life — for clients, communities, and our franchisees. at elements massage® our franchisees benefit from the established and well-developed operating systems, ongoing training and innovation, comprehensive marketing support, strong vendor programs and a dedicated staff ready to support with individual needs. request free info digital marketing training group own your own digital marketing business, no royalties, make an unlimited income request free info cyclebar franchising cyclebar is the first and only truly premium experiential fitness concept offered in franchising. cyclebar leverages current markets to capitalize on a proven industry for exceptional success worldwide. request free info jersey mike's subs jersey mike's subs, a fast-casual sub sandwich franchise with more than 2,000 locations open and under development nationwide, believes that making a sub sandwich and making a difference can be one and the same. request free info fastsigns international, inc. fastsigns international, inc. is the worldwide franchisor for the over 700 fastsigns® sign, graphic and visual communications centers in ten countries. the largest sign franchise in north america, the independently owned and operated fastsigns centers provide comprehensive visual communications solutions to help customers of all sizes – across all industries – meet their business objectives and increase their business visibility through the use of signs, graphics, printing, promotional products and related marketing services. request free info handyman pro our team specializes in countless handyman services, from miscellaneous home repairs and maintenance to carpentry, remodels, and more. we can maintain your home so you can maintain the more important aspects of your life. request free info spray-net spray-net is the home-improvement franchise that's changing the way homeowners renovate. thanks to our weather-adjustable paint process and proprietary chemistry, we deliver a factory finish that won't peel. request free info pet supplies plus pet supplies plus mission is to be america's favorite neighborhood pet store request free info school of rock turn your passion into a full-time gig. own a school of rock franchise now. request free info accessible home health care why settle for a non-medical/staffing franchise with a restricted revenue stream? since 2001 providing multi-dimensional, full-service personal health care. great territories available. healthcare experience not required! request free info kids 'r' kids learning academies be a part of a franchise with a proven system that continues to set trends in early childhood education since its establishment in 1988. request free info stride founded in pasadena, ca, stride is the first and only indoor running franchise. stride's treadmill-based cardio and strength classes are perfect for any level of walker, jogger or runner. request free info maid right the home cleaning industry is growing fast! be part of this growing owner/operator franchise opportunity. rated top #25 new franchises by entrepreneur in 2016. request free info interim healthcare original home care franchise, offering medical, non-medical and staffing franchises. opportunity to access multiple home care revenue streams. request free info pirtek pirtek is a unique business-to-business franchise that services, maintains, installs and replaces hydraulic hoses and fittings. request free info window genie® for more than 25 years, window genie® has been the sole leader in the national, residentially focused window cleaning market. built on a powerful culture and an established, professional system, window genie does more than clean windows – they build winning businesses for aspiring entrepreneurs. no window cleaning experience required. request free info kona ice low investment, fastest growing with over 1,200 franchises in 11 years, #1 in franchisee satisfaction for the last seven years...enough said! request free info pure barre with more than 500 studios across the u.s. and canada, and nearly 600,000 passionate clients, pure barre is the largest network of barre studios worldwide. ranked in entrepreneur magazine’s franchise 500 list each year, pure barre continues to be a pioneer in not only the barre space, but boutique fitness overall. request free info my business venture looking to partner with a winner? with over 25 years experience helping new business owners find success, mbv is the perfect choice for motivated individuals looking for a low risk – high reward business. request free info puroclean as the leader in fire and water damage restoration, puroclean offers a franchise opportunity in the $204+ billion dollar recession-proof restoration industry! request free info handyman connection handyman connection is a handyman and home services franchise concept that serves the repair, restoration, and maintenance needs of residential & commercial customers. request free info healthier 4u vending are you passionate about owning your own business? are you interested in giving people the choice to eat healthy? if the answer is yes, then you have found the right partner to build you a successful healthy vending business. at healthier4u vending we share your passion and want you to join us to give the choice to eat healthy to everyone. come see how together we can change your life. request free info homevestors of america inc. we buy ugly houses. you can be in real estate, turn undervalued homes into profit, work-from-home options or grow as big as you want! request free info n-hance wood refinishing n-hance, the world’s largest wood refinishing franchise, uses proprietary solutions and refinishing techniques to restore the natural beauty of your hardwood floors, cabinets and doors – at a more affordable cost and in a fraction of the time of traditional remodels. request free info hommati there's a lot of money to be made as a drone pilot. provide innovative services to real estate professionals. love what you do and you'll never work another day in your life! request free info chem-dry cleaning an industry leader, ranked #1 in the carpet cleaning franchise category in entrepreneur's franchise 500 listing! request free info akt akt is a unique unique dance-based cardio workout, with new original content created by anna kaiser herself every 3 weeks. request free info nathan's famous, inc. what nathan's did to hot dogs, we're doing again to new york's finest, fastest and most flavorful fast casual cuisine. request free info tutor doctor a home-based business model that offers a unique service and makes a difference! request free info inxpress inxpress is a business-to-business, home based franchise in which franchisees sell global shipping and logistics services to small-and-medium sized businesses (sme). no retail storefront, no handling packages, and no employees required! request free info destination athlete® team sales for youth, high school & college athletes request free info home helpers home helpers named #1 senior care franchise in north america -- a huge homebased senior care business that offers a rewarding service in an exploding market. request free info club pilates founded in 2007, club pilates began franchising in 2012 and is now the largest network of premium group pilates studios worldwide. request free info save-a-lot food stores do you want to invest in the fastest growing grocery channel in america? become a save-a-lot owner. request free info mosquito joe outdoor pest control is booming! secure your territory and financial freedom with mosquito joe. request free info commercial capital training group our one-of-a-kind training program allows you to successfully enter the lucrative world of commercial financing. work wherever you want, whenever you want in this recession proof industry with earning an unlimited income. request free info stretchlab franchise stretchlab is the industry leader in offering affordable one on one assisted stretching, created with variety of offerings to empower clients to ‘live long’. request free info kitchen wise kitchen wise offers organization solutions for the most-used spaces in homes: kitchens, bathrooms, and pantries. their system provides design consultation, product selection, and installation. request free info the ups store transform your life today. be your own boss. request free info cruise planners, an american express travel representative cruise planners, an american express representative, home-based business model is one of the largest, privately owned, nationally recognized and continually awarded cruise selling agencies in the united states. request free info home clean heroes meet the new heroes of the home cleaning industry.home clean heroes has emerged as the newest player with strong branding, best-in-class systems, and ability to grow rapidly nationwide. backed by multi-brand franchisor, buzz franchise brands, home clean heroes is a world-class franchise company, building a household name market by market. be a hero, not a maid. request free info batteries plus bulbs you’ve been dreaming of the freedom and flexibility of being your own boss. you have the enthusiasm and the ambition. now all you need is the perfect franchise opportunity: batteries plus bulbs. find out how batteries plus bulbs is unique, profitable and supported, and how you will be providing products and services that consumers and businesses need for many years to come. request free info claimtek medical billing business starting a medical billing business today is a sound choice for those seeking a successful and rewarding future. claimtek's programs are designed to help you be the very best in this industry. request free info british swim school british swim school is a franchise dedicated to ensuring that everyone, regardless of age, has the opportunity to become a safe and happy swimmer. request free info ubreakifix join a proven business model that’s built around the customer experience and a solid cash on cash return on investment. the numbers don’t lie! request free info pool scouts pool cleaning pool scouts offers pool-owners a more professional option in pool service. the pool scouts franchise opportunity is a low-cost, turn key franchise making it an appealing option to consider. request free info row house row house is a network of premium boutique indoor rowing studio, delivering a low-impact, high-energy workout focused on generating team energy request free info pillar to post home inspectors pillar to post is the largest and leading home inspection company in north america. if you're ready to make your next move in life, why not consider a home-based business that allows you to make a difference in your customer's lives. request free info lendio franchise a lendio franchisee will be able to help small business owners find the loan they need to grow their business by leveraging lendio’s business loan marketplace. request free info mathnasium do well while doing good. open a business that can change the world. request free info great clips join the world's largest and fastest growing haircare brand request free info amazing lash studio amazing lash studio was founded on the idea that helping people become beautiful could also be an amazing business. amazing lash studio delivers recurring revenue through membership and a manageable footprint in a contemporary salon studio environment. request free info blastis we have a complete program for you to become an entrepreneur. start your own business reselling text marketing. request free info two men and a truck international nation's largest local moving franchise over 375 locations, 3,000 trucks, and a 96% referral rate request free info express employment professionals express employment professionals is thriving, with more than 825 locations and annual sales of $3.5 billion. request free info 360˚ painting whether the market is hot with people buying or selling real estate homeowners are opting to redecorate their existing property. there is always a need for reliable, top-quality painting services for a quick upgrade to their investment. request free info snap-on tools we are looking for people as good as our tools. snap-on tools has been the top tool franchise in entrepreneur’s franchise 500 for the past five years. request free info big blue swim school big blue swim school’s goal is to be a part of life’s big moments for families, to help kids develop swim skills and life skills. request free info pro-lift garage doors with over 40 years of experience and a serious focus on customer satisfaction, you can trust pro-lift doors for all of your residential garage door service needs. your loading dock is the gateway to your business. request free info kumon for over 60 years, kumon has given families a clear path to help their kids become high performing students. as a franchise owner/operator, you’ll be trained to guide them towards lifelong success while creating a successful community-minded business filled with rewards. now, you can get up to $36,000 in expenses covered, too! if you’re a veteran, you may benefit from an extra $10k incentive! request free info men in kilts men in kilts is north america's leading window, gutter and siding cleaning and pressure washing franchise. request free info dream vacations start enjoying business ownership as a home-based travel professional creating dream vacations for your clients. request free info best in class education center premier education franchise helps students from prek- 12th grade become best in their class. request free info yogasix yogasix is a modern take on an ancient practice where we believe that everyone deserves the experience of yoga by connecting you to a practice that is energizing, empowering, and fun. request free info more opportunities urban air adventure park here’s your chance to own an urban air adventure park. recongized as the worlds leading family entertainment franchise we consistently out deliver the competition while offering a tremendous opportunity for those wanting to build a profitable and lasting business. request free info home instead senior care join the leader in the non-medical senior care industry. home instead senior care provides services designed for seniors who need just a little help to live independently. request free info isi elite training isi elite training's athletic based training sessions are led by certified coaches. each workout burns up to 1,000 calories in 50 minutes. our training program builds self-confidence, increases strength and endurance, burns fat and improves flexibility for all fitness levels request free info screenmobile screenmobile is the only company with a mobile workshop specializing in residential/commercial screen manufacturing, repair, and installation for windows, doors, porches, patios, and more! request free info firehouse subs with a strong brand identity, excellent franchise relationships, and passionate executive leadership team firmly established, firehouse subs is positioned to grow with the right franchisee partner. request free info college hunks hauling junk and moving college hunks hauling junk and moving is two world class franchises in one, which a higher net promoter score (customer satisfication) than apple, nordstrom and amazon and an incredible earning's claim (item 19)! request free info spaulding decon spaulding decon is a recession proof concept specializing in crime scene cleanup, mold remediation, flood restoration, hoarding cleanup and we buy houses. request free info pet wants own a natural pet food franchise that taps into the $74 billion pet care industry. request free info senior helpers senior helpers franchisees have the benefit of being a part of one of the fastest-growing senior care services trends. our mission is to ensure a better quality of life, both for elderly and their families providing dependable and affordable care at a moments notice. request free info pearle vision pearle vision is one of the most recognizable, premium optical franchises, offering a proven business model in an industry with sustainable demand. request free info the joint chiropractic the joint is the fastest-growing chiropractic franchise in the nation. with more than 500 locations open, the joint is helping millions find relief from back and neck pain by making chiropractic more accessible and affordable than ever before. the joint's straightforward business model, ability to scale, and exceptional unit economics are attracting both entrepreneurs and chiropractors who want to thrive in a business that makes a difference. request free info shakeaway shakeaway is a unique global company. get involved in this fun, fast growing and profitable franchise as part of the world's largest milkshake bar company request free info rosati's pizza rosati's pizza, 50 years in the business, 200 locations, too many success stories to count request free info club z! in-home tutoring top ranked sat/act test prep company. over 400 locations. owners manage staff of in-home and online tutors. request free info executive home care a full service non-medical and medical homecare company. the need for our services is growing exponentially daily. take care of your future- helping others. request free info actikare responsive in-home care acti-kare franchisees provide seniors superior caregiving services in the comfort of their own homes. franchise owners manage a staff of caregivers that help our clients live happier, more active lives. request free info fresh coat $140 billion dollar industry request free info hounds town usa founded by an expert in canine behavior, the hounds town usa doggie daycare franchise is uniquely positioned to cater to dogs and their owners across the united states. request free info crunch franchising llc franchising since 2010, crunch fitness centers offer access to workout equipment, personal training, and a variety of classes to base members. request free info little medical school at little medical school, we inspire young minds by sharing our passion for learning, health and careers in medicine. request free info snapology snapology is a low cost, home-based, mobile business teaching robotics and engineering principles through classes, camps, & parties. with our innovative project based curriculum we hope to inspire kids through educational learning. request free info the growth coach with over 28 million small businesses in the u.s., business coaching is a booming $11 billion industry. request free info charter financial start your own note referral business. there are billions of dollars worth of privately held notes in circulation. find them for us and earn great referral fees! extremely low start up cost, no previous experience necessary. we offer complete training and support. this is a great part-time or full-time business opportunity. request free info caring transitions caring transitions provides seniors and their families with senior relocation assistance, downsizing and managing estate sales. request free info senior helpers town square senior helper town square franchise owners enjoy a unique and highly attractive adult day care business model that delivers a positive and immersive experience to all participants. request free info california tortilla california tortilla is a unique fast casual mexican restaurant franchise that serves “california style” mexican food. we focus on one aspect that many other fast casuals continue to ignore; quality. request free info checkers drive in restaurants checkers - a big time franchise packed into a little building request free info postnet more than just a printing and shipping franchise: the postnet community is dedicated to helping others succeed. we’re here to help you pursue your dreams of entrepreneurship! request free info gold rush gold rush is an entertainment business with two-hour quest shows for any groups and occasions. started in 2017, the franchise network works with 150 partners in 5 countries. franchisees offer unique concept of entertainment with custom scenarios, ready-made decorations, actors, and catering request free info decorating den interiors turnkey business for interior design. home or studio based. comprehensive training. 130 wholesale suppliers. marketing/social marketing/business platform. request free info mosquito hunters outdoor pest control is experiencing lightning fast growth and mosquito hunters franchise owners are buzzing with excitement. we are poised to grow rapidly nationwide and have prime markets available today for development. request free info concrete technology inc. since 1991, cti has offered entrepreneurs a dealership opportunity representing an industry leading product line in the concrete beautification and protection industry. request free info sam the concrete man the nation’s largest residential flat work concrete company. request free info griswold home care griswold home care is the nation’s first non-medical home care franchise opportunity, and our matriarch, jean griswold, founded our company out of a true sense of need in her community. her legacy of compassion and empathy has blossomed into one of the most successful and storied home care brands in the united states. today, we are a standout franchise opportunity in the $89 billion annual home care industry. request free info speedpro imaging ready to leave the corporate ladder for an independent lifestyle? speedpro imaging franchise owners are business professionals that thrive in a b2b environment and bring a white-collar approach to the wide-format printing industry. join a team of franchise owners that’s like no other! request free info filta environmental kitchen solutions the world’s leading service provider for eco-friendly, weekly repeat, cooking oil filtration and fryer management for commercial kitchens. request free info anytime fitness, llc don't just open a franchise. join a movement. request free info visiting angels senior homecare by angels. join the non-medical homecare franchise with over 600 franchises in all 50 states. request free info trublue innovative home care packages with a focus on serving seniors & busy families request free info nurse next door home care services nurse next door is the nation's fastest growing home care system. with over 160+ franchises and an award-winning reputation, we are paving the way for senior home care. request free info enviro-master services enviro-master is the world’s leading health and safety company keeping public spaces free of disease, odors and germs. scalable, recurring revenue business model. request free info the lash loft an iconic high-end eye lash extension salon, the lash loft is expanding outside new york city to protected territories in a select few major us cities. the lash loft wows its customers from the moment they land on the website, to the beautifully designed studios, and now with curated high quality products. request free info morrison plus property inspections property inspections is a recession resistant industry! morrison plus franchisee’s are helping protect the “american dream” one inspection at time! request free info xpresso delight xpresso delight is a workplace coffee subscription service where franchise owners place & manage espresso machines in offices to generate revenue by the cup. request free info company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account