skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources freelancing looking for freelance jobs? here’s where to start february 15, 2020 by miranda marquit 2 comments freelance jobs abound. if you're hoping to make money online, here are some ideas of where you can start. "how do you find gigs?" this is pretty much the first question anyone asks me when they … continue reading about looking for freelance jobs? here’s where to start how to batch your writing — and improve your productivity january 20, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment i'm constantly asked about how i manage my productivity. by learning how to batch your writing, it's possible to take your freelance business to a new level. over the years, i've tried just about … continue reading about how to batch your writing — and improve your productivity 3 things i wish my clients knew about the 1099-k january 5, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment here comes tax season. whether you hire freelancers, or are a freelancer yourself, watch out for the 1099-k. the introduction of the form 1099-k a few years ago has many people trying to figure … continue reading about 3 things i wish my clients knew about the 1099-k freelance resource review: freelance writers den december 9, 2019 by miranda marquit 1 comment looking for tips on higher paying gigs and access to a freelance resource toolbox? the freelance writers den can be a solid choice. one of the realities of going out and getting higher-paying gigs … continue reading about freelance resource review: freelance writers den freelance income goals — why they’re not for me november 25, 2019 by miranda marquit 2 comments we hear a lot about setting freelance income goals and other income goals. they aren't my thing. here's why. working in the world of online financial content often comes with its own fomo. after … continue reading about freelance income goals — why they’re not for me an open letter to sen. elizabeth warren regarding #ab5 november 11, 2019 by miranda marquit leave a comment hey liz, you know you're my girl, right? we have some minor quibbles. i prefer a public option for healthcare, similar to what was originally proposed by president obama, to straight-up medicare … continue reading about an open letter to sen. elizabeth warren regarding #ab5 go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 35 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com