freelance writer and blogger for hire hire a freelance writer and blogger today about portfolio client testimonials contact grow your business with content marketing do you want more visitors to your website? do you want to turn more of those visitors into clients and customers? then my content marketing services can help. by publishing a steady stream of high-quality content on your website, you can increase your exposure in search engines like google to help more of your target audience find your website. my name is joe and i’ve been a freelance writer for about five years now and have worked with some top-tier clients to help them grow their businesses through content marketing. why hire a freelance writer? why spend your time writing content for your websites when you could be doing other things, such as working on your products, developing your site’s strategy, networking and making contacts, or simply enjoying the rewards of your labor? whether you need someone to write regular blog posts, tutorials, reviews, or press releases, i can help. more information about me can be found on the about page. however for now, here’s a list of the types of content i am experienced in writing: blogging: adding a blog to your site is an excellent way to increase your visitors and better connect with your target audience. if you want to add a blog to your site or already have one, my content marketing service is just what you need. i can write posts on a regular schedule and on a wide range of topics to suit the style and voice of your site. reviews: these can be of physical products, services or experiences. i will use my research skills to provide a detailed and accurate appraisal. press releases: these are ideal for gaining exposure and links back to your projects and in some certain cases can lead to massive increases in traffic to your website. i regularly write press releases which are accepted at prweb.com and am able to create interesting news stories for your site, service or product. guides and tutorials: i’ve written a number of guides and tutorials for using software and for many other topics. you can find examples of the content i’ve produced for my clients on the portfolio page. if your project doesn’t fit into any of the categories above, just get in touch to discuss your needs. i am available for short-term contracts of a single article to long-term projects on an ongoing basis. to discuss your content marketing needs, use the form below or send an email to [sf_email]joecanwrite@gmail.com[/sf_email]. if you’re still not sure whether hiring me is right for your business, have a quick read of what my clients have said about my services. notice: javascript is required for this content. i look forward to hearing from you. joe about me if you need high-quality content for your website or blog, i can help. my name is joe and i’m a freelance writer for hire who specializes in content marketing for online businesses. read more about how i can help. contact joecanwrite@gmail.com or use the contact form menu: home about freelance writer portfolio client testimonials contact copyright © 2020 · modern studio pro on genesis framework · wordpress · log in