wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ free wordpress blog setup we help you setup your blog for free, so you have the right configuration, and the best tools to grow your blog. we level the playing field for beginners. get started now featured in everything you need to build a successful blog we have helped over 100,000 people get started with wordpress. here’s everything that you get with our free wordpress blog setup service. wordpress we install self-hosted wordpress software with proper configurations design we work with you to pick the best wordpress theme for you! seo optimized we help optimize your site for seo, so you can rank higher. blazing fast we add caching solutions to make sure that your site is blazing fast. security we add security plugins to help protect your site from hackers. training & support you will get access to our free training videos & expert support. all of that for free? are you crazy? yup, we get this question a lot. see why wpbeginner offer free blog setups. syed balkhi founder of wpbeginner majority of blogs fail within a few months of starting out. mostly because they fail to reach the blogger’s expectations and goals. having failed quite a few times and spending countless hours researching and experimenting, i learned that the issue always comes down to a solid setup. this is the reason why you see expert bloggers starting one successful blog after another. they have figured out the right set of tools they need to increase conversion, get a lot of traffic from seo, increase engagement through social media, while making money from their passion. i created wpbeginner to offer users what i wish i had when i was starting out. don’t let technical barriers stop you from starting your blog. let my team build the blog for you ... absolutely free of charge, so you can focus on doing what you love. see what others are saying about wpbeginner... don't just take our word. see what other industry experts are saying about us: wpbeginner is one of the best resources on the web for anyone who is looking to start a wordpress blog. - neil patel, founder of crazyegg wpbeginner is one of those cornerstone places you need bookmarked. i just hate that it's called 'beginner,' because i've got 12 years experience and i still learn things there. - chris brogan, ny times best selling author creating a blog can be frustrating. luckily for you, wpbeginner makes it so easy even a caveman could do it. make this your top resource for all things wordpress. - lewis howes, ny times and wallstreet journal best selling author yes, i want a free blog setup our free blog setup is a two step process follow the steps below to complete your free wordpress blog setup application. setups are completed in the order they are received. 1 domain + web hosting every website needs a domain and web hosting. a domain is your website’s address on the internet (i.e wpbeginner.com). web hosting is where your website live on the internet. it’s where your files, images, and articles are stored. you need to have both of these to start a blog. in order for us to keep our business model sustainable and provide you with this excellent service, we require users to signup with our partner web hosts. these companies are hand-picked by our founder, syed balkhi, and they are known to offer top-notch service. this way you get quality web hosting, which you were going to pay for anyways. at no additional cost to you, we receive a small commission from our partner web hosting companies for referring a new client. you actually end up getting significant discounts because each of these companies offer special deals to our readers. it’s a win win win, all the way around. to get started, simply signup with any of the web hosting providers listed below using the links on this page. note: please do not use any external coupons. if you use any coupon that is not attached here, you will not qualify for our free blog setup service. 299 reviews bluehostsavings one of the oldest web hosts started in 1996, bluehost has become the largest brand name when it comes to wordpress hosting. they are an official 'wordpress' recommended hosting provider. with bluehost, you never have to worry about your website being slow even when there is a lot of traffic. their 24/7 expert support is always there to help when you need it by phone, email, or live chat. they are rated #1 in web hosting for small businesses. on top of that, they are offering wpbeginner users an exclusive 63% off discount, a free domain, free ssl, and a free site builder with templates. 3,926 reviews sitegroundsavings siteground is one of the most popular and highest rated hosting provider in the wordpress community. they provide unique in-house wordpress speed and security solutions to make your site as fast and secure as possible. they are known for the best 24/7 support in the industry which is why they're an official 'wordpress' recommended hosting provider. this is also why we use siteground for hosting the wpbeginner website. siteground features include automatic upgrades, built-in wp caching, cdn, one-click staging and git version control. they are also one of the few companies offering location specific hosting with 3 data centers in usa, europe, and asia. on top of all this, they have а special 70% discount for wpbeginner readers. 79 reviews hostgatorsavings hostgator hosts over 8 million domains and is one of the most popular web hosts in the industry. with 1-click wordpress installation, 99.9% up time guarantee, and 24/7 support, it's a smart choice for every website owner. we consider them one of the best web hosting for businesses. they're offering our readers an exclusive 62% off discount, a free domain name, and free ssl certificate. 573 reviews dreamhostsavings dreamhost has been around for 18 years, and is known for making web hosting easy. you get custom dashboard, 1-click wordpress install, automatic wordpress updates, unlimited space, unlimited bandwidth and free ssds which makes your site 200% faster. dreamhost powers over 600,000 wordpress blogs and websites. there are no setup fees, and you also get a free domain. 387 reviews greengeekssavings greengeeks has become a well-known brand in the wordpress hosting industry with their blazing fast website performance, 24/7 u.s. based support, and an environmentally responsible platform. they offer automatic 1-click wordpress install, managed updates, enhanced security, free cdn, free site migration, and the choice of over 5 different data center locations. greengeeks power over 500,000 websites and customers love them. on top of all this, they have a special 60% discount for wpbeginner readers combined with free ssl and a free domain name. 2 submit the form below once you have signed up for web hosting using the link above, go ahead and fill out the form below, so our team can start working on your blog. please enable javascript in your browser to complete this form. name * e-mail * which host did you signup with? *bluehosthostgatorsitegrounddreamhostgreengeeks receipt from the hosting provider * please paste your receipt from the hosting provider. this will be the email that you will receive right after you successfully purchase the web hosting. we need to know the date of your signup and the domain you used for the signup. title of your site * description for your site * anything else you want us to know? wpbeginner newsletter yes, i would like to receive helpful wordpress tips from wpbeginner via email. name submit featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.