/ ruben bolling / 11:27 am fri mar 27, 2020 free book for kids- the emu club adventures: alien invasion in my backyard follow us twitter / facebook / rss to do far less than my part in helping families in quarantine/home isolation, i'm offering a free download of the first book in my book series for kids, the emu club adventures: alien invasion in my backyard, for anyone who wants it. free. no charge. info for downloading the pdf of the book is at this link. the book was first released in 2015, and here are a few endorsements: "ruben bolling is one of my cartooning heroes, and the emu club adventures is seriously, mysteriously funny!" - jeff kinney, diary of a wimpy kid "there's no mystery—the emu club is a hit! this is a fun, funny adventure that kids will love to read." —lincoln peirce, big nate "the emu club inhabits exactly the world i always hoped to live in when i was 12, when the answer to questions like 'where did i put my toy' led inevitably to alien conspiracies and secret underground tunnels. a book for the curious and adventurous!" - cory doctorow i hope your kids have some fun with it. maybe you will too. in a week, i'm going to provide a link to download the second book in the series, ghostly thief of time. also for free. share / tweet / 1 comments tom the dancing bug get the boing boing newsletter super-fun-pak comix, feat. bud n' fran, walter's widgets, and more tom the dancing bug, in which super-fun-pak comix features “sully’s place,” “nutso kaputo” and more read the rest super-fun-pak comix, feat. secret origins of a species, and more! tom the dancing bug, in which various animal-themed super-fun-pak comix are offered for your enjoyment read the rest trump's instructions for your survival of the coronavirus tom the dancing bug, in which donald j. trump gives you instructions for how you can beat the coronavirus, the trump way. read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support