toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog services last updated on: february 15th, 2019 hi. i’m lorraine. i work wizardry with words. i’m a certified math and english teacher (see my teaching credentials) who has been blogging for years. wording well is my business. wording well offers 4 distinct freelancing services: 1. writing 2. editing 3. coaching/mentoring 4. author assistant services please refer to each page for more information. just click on the links in red above, or the “learn more” links below (found in each service box). if you have any questions about anything, email me. customer satisfaction is my top priority! hire me today to help you achieve your goals! and if you want to learn how to become a freelance editor, read this and sign up to my interest list! freelancing services writing services blog posts. articles. e-books. books. ghostwriting. web content. brochures/pamphlets. original and creative. optimized for search engines. share-worthy. awesome. click/tap here to learn more about my writing services editing services grammar. spelling. punctuation. syntax. organization. flow. fact-checking. consistency. preservation of your voice. preservation of your writing style. amazing. click/tap here to learn more about my editing services consulting + coaching services websites. blogs. businesses. growth. social media. planning. goal-setting. strategies. success. click/tap here to learn more about my consulting and coaching services author assistant services e-books. print books. editing. formatting. front and back matter. copyright permissions. pricing. taxation. click/tap here to learn more about my author assistant services please read the testimonials from clients who used my freelancing services. then contact me for a quote today! wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! click to visit: my brandyourself profile and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy