free to focus™ by michael hyatt register now already own the course? login here | support reclaim up to 20 hours a week discover the free to focus™ online course, the total productivity system designed to help you slay distractions, free your time from interruptions, and finally focus on the projects and people that matter most. register now watch video the secret to achieving more while doing less if you’re exhausted at the end of each day, feeling unsure of what you actually achieved in your day, it’s not your fault. the old model of productivity has failed you. productivity is not about getting more done at a faster speed. it’s about getting results. as high achievers, we measure our work by outcomes, not activity. checking off more tasks won’t matter unless they’re the right tasks. to address this, i’ve created an entirely new system for productivity that will drive results instead of endless box-checking. after all, true productivity is a means to a greater end—the achievement of what matters most at work and at home. what i’m about to show you will clear a path for you to achieve more by actually doing less. the results look like this: exponential growth in your income, revenue, profit and sales quality time with your spouse and family, fostering the relationships that matter most achieving the highest level of health and fitness ever in your life confidence you’re making your greatest contributions and delivering massive value every day satisfaction in doing the work you’re uniquely gifted to do freedom to get off the hamster wheel, work the way you want, and experience less stress and frustration this is exactly what makes my course different from anything else you may have tried. register now discover the system top performers use to achieve their greatest priorities watch video what if you could eliminate distractions and realize your full potential at work and at home? even if you do want true productivity, it can seem like the world is working against you. because you’re responsible, you attract more tasks that eat at your margin. distractions are everywhere. from our phones to our co-workers, getting actual work done can seem impossible. and the “urgent” often disrupts your plans for productivity. throughout it all, you desire an energized, satisfying, effective life. you want to be proactive, not reactive. you want the power to finish, delegate, and delete so that you can live and work in peace. in your mind’s eye, you can see yourself at peak productivity, but that reality is just out of reach. my friend, free to focus™ was designed for you. register now hi, i’m michael hyatt new york times bestselling author, ceo, and productivity expert featured in... if anyone knows how it feels to face non-stop emails, constant interruptions, and an endless set of tasks—with the pressure to constantly drive results—i sure do. if you’ve faced personal and professional chaos because of your to-do list, i hear you. as a father of five daughters, i have been the ceo of a major corporation and am now a successful entrepreneur leading a fast-growing company. if you want to talk about raising a family, running a business, managing employees, satisfying shareholders, following your dreams, and having time for rest and relationships, you have come to the right place. first, i need to share an important truth with you: there will always be more tasks than time. as i spent years pursuing the answer to making my own life productive and fulfilling, i realized that the solution isn’t magically getting it all done or finding more hours in the day. you and i only have 24 hours a day, and that’s it. but how you make use of those 24 hours is the difference between feeling swallowed alive and feeling like the task-eating shark on top of the food chain. you must learn to make the maximum use of your hours with the kind of focus that only few know how to harness. and i’m going to show you how. register now inside the free to focus online course free to focus™ is my complete productivity system designed to help high-achievers to win at both work and home. this newly updated 9-lesson course will help you rebuild your productivity from the ground up in as little as 10 days. clarity distill your most powerful reasons for becoming more productive— and learn how to reach the results you define. direction learn field-tested, advanced productivity strategies through instructional video lessons and step-by-step tutorials. skills streamline your workflows & delegate with confidence, whether you’re an entrepreneur, manager, or executive. tools rework and refine your schedule, to-do list, & work processes using the proprietary tools that accompany each lesson. rituals define powerful rituals that can transform your day-to-day routine for optimum effectiveness and a greater ability to focus. training discover how to scale your business successfully and reclaim valuable hours for your personal goals and priorities. utilize the video lessons, templates, worksheets, and tested frameworks to tailor your days for freedom and flexibility. all the material is compiled into an actionable system for you and is easily accessible through your course dashboard. three simple steps to freedom free to focus is simple to learn and fast to implement. there are three steps to become free to focus and achieve more by doing less—stop, cut, and act. module 1: stop in your tracks the first thing we need to do is stop. this is a radical departure from everything you’ve ever been told about productivity. conventional wisdom says you need to move faster and push harder to achieve more, but that is 180-degrees backwards. we have to get clear on what we’re after, what is and isn’t working, and get a vision for what’s possible before we turn our attention to greater efficiency. otherwise, we’ll just propel ourselves faster in the wrong direction. module 2: cut almost everything the next step will help you cut through the jungle of too many to-dos so you can clearly see your path to what matters most. tasks take energy, and when we attempt too much, it depletes us, leaving us exhausted, less effective, and burdened by unfinished work and unmet expectations. in module 2, i’ll show you how to eliminate 80% of what’s on your to-do list that should never have made it on there to begin with. then i’m going to supply you with three tools for chipping, chiseling, and sanding your schedule into a masterpiece. when we’re done, you’ll be free to finish your most important tasks and projects and leave everything else behind. this will give you the dramatic freedom to spend more time with your family and get to the goals you’ve been putting off. module 3: act in your desire zone this is where everything comes together. once you have gotten clarity on your priorities, addressed any necessary changes to your routine, and eliminated, automated, or delegated all that you can, module 3 will teach you how to activate your new lifestyle. you’ll arrange your time blocks, manage your energy, and consolidate the tasks that remain. as you begin to execute on the plan you’ve established, you’ll also build momentum that will sustain you for the long-term and scale to however your career or business grows. register now when you’re more productive, you make more money right now, if you’re like most entrepreneurs and leaders, you’re probably spending 20% of your time on high-leverage, revenue-producing projects. the other 80% is spent on inefficient meetings, solving other people’s problems, a sea of email, draining operational issues, and the countless fires you have to put out. but what if you could flip that—and spend 80% of your time on the projects that drive your business forward instead of just keeping it going? that would mean a 300% increase in your ability to focus on the projects and priorities that generate cash now and in the future. you could… nurture key business relationships develop new products expand into new markets dial in your marketing efforts close lucrative deals develop a category-killing innovation if your business received 300% more of your best thinking and creativity, that would double or even triple your revenue. your personal income could grow by 50%—or much more. right now your business is running on 20% of your best efforts… but it doesn’t have to be that way. imagine what it would feel like to finally have the freedom to focus on the most important priorities in your business every day instead of every once in a while. free to focus is the accelerator that drives your business and revenue forward exponentially. register now the path to freedom free to focus one payment of: $497 online course lifetime access to course ✔ 3 main teaching modules ✔ 9 lesson videos ✔ audio downloads of each lesson video ✔ exclusive proprietary tools and exercises customized for each lesson ✔ 9 downloadable workbooks ✔ get instant access what if reclaiming 20 hours isn’t all i hoped it would be? i’m 100% certain that free to focus has the power to transform your life. it will set you free to do you best work, make your greatest contribution, and focus on the projects and relationships that matter most. but if other, traditional productivity systems have left you skeptical that this kind of transformation is possible, or after reviewing the course you don’t think free to focus is worth every penny you’ve paid, just let me know within 30 days of your purchase and i’ll give you a full refund. that’s how much i believe in what i’m offering you. i don’t want anything standing between you and your freedom, so i’ve made this totally risk-free for you. michael s. hyatt here’s proof that free to focus works i was wearing too many hats and doing too many jobs. i was overworked, stressed, and had no personal life. the three most powerful results my business has had from free to focus is a 40% increase in revenue and a 50% increase in client base as well as myself and my whole team have a work life balance we can be happy about. mariel diaz watch video i felt defeated before i got started. i felt like no matter how hard i was working or trying the things that were important to me were going to be left behind. realizing its okay to delegate everything that’s not in my desire zone has been one of the most freeing things i can imagine. i’m less stressed than i have been in years. roy barberi watch video prior to free to focus i was working a lot. it helped me grow 25% year over year one year and last year we grew 38%. it allowed me to be more precise about what i want to get done so i have more time to spend with my family, doing hobbies i love. i’m more focussed, more disciplined. because of free to focus i do know it’s possible to have freedom, have clarity, grow your company and be profitable at the same time. matt lapp watch video free to focus has changed my life. after 35 years it’s realigned me, it’s reset me, i’m more present in everything i do. before free to focus my life was completely out of balance. free to focus has transformed me not only in my business but in my personal life. spending 90% of my time in my desire zone has really freed me. my energy has been reborn again. i’m doing a better job of empowering my team. jim christian watch video after completing free to focus i was in a substantially better place to really deliver results in our business. i was able to enjoy more vacation time in a 12 month period than i ever have. free to focus allowed me to stay free to be fully engaged and present in a much smaller number of tasks. having that framework was instrumental in really achieving the results in this last year. caleb roney watch video last year, through implementing the free to focus principles, i’ve had the capacity to learn more about how to take care of myself and have the capacity to execute on actually taking care of myself. i’ve been taking care of myself so well that now i don’t need an insulin pump anymore. it means a ton for my future health which then will lead to more memories, greater experiences with my little girls and my wife. stephen roney watch video free to focus has enabled me to pick out my most important tasks, and get those accomplished, and leave me enough margin to do things that i think are making a difference in the world around me. i’ve been able to concentrate on things instead of being distracted all of the time. everything has opened up to me—deeper relationships, more meaningful interactions with acquaintances, a deeper intimacy with my husband. rene banglesdorf watch video “this program has made it simple and easy for me to say ‘no’ to the things that once distracted me from my true priorities. free to focus is directly responsible for helping reduce my workload by 10 hours per week. in the month after i completed the course, my company revenue increased 40% over the previous month. this is the best productivity course i have ever taken, and there’s nobody better at this than michael hyatt.” ray edwards “if it wasn’t for this course, i would have shelved writing and my ministry work for at least a decade until my last child left home. that’s how much i struggled with an overwhelmed life! instead, i returned 255 hours a month doing good things in my desire zone to do great things.” wendy h “i came into this with a lot of productivity education, systems, and tools already in place. i wasn’t looking for how to do more, but for mindsets i could use to gain clarity about what i can stop doing, and what’s really important. that was my goal, and that’s what i got. working this into my life will be a game changer.” stephanie benedetto padovani “in all of the productivity-related books, tools, and resources that i’ve encountered, none of them have successfully impacted my daily life in the way that free to focus has. … this course is a complete game-changer and is going to have a ripple-effect for the foreseeable future.” darcy sabatino “following taking this course, i began to focus on one thing more intentionally. as a result, i saw a big increase in the amount of sales i was bringing into my speaking career. i’m booked up until april. i have more than 10 speaking engagements and, as a result, a major writing assignment that focuses in upon what i do best and what i love to do. i needed to focus and then help to once again eliminate and turn back to what god has called me to do.” rick b “i’m sold on the benefits of what free to focus can do for today’s highly focused, goal-oriented individual. f2f brings together all of the most relevant, battle-tested tools in one box of ammunition that i can pick/choose to implement in my pursuit of a better quality of life balance for me and my family. i have shared this with my friends, family, and co-workers—letting them know the benefits it has given me and encouraging them to do the same.” bob m “been having breakthroughs in getting everything cleared out of the way so i’m free to focus on the key, uncomfortable, new tasks required to launch my online businesses. i can actually see my vision moving forward and actually being possible again after being stopped. thank you!” alex gwozda who is free to focus for? free to focus™ is for overwhelmed high achievers, but it’s especially designed for professionals seeking work-life balance. the strategies are high-level, but the lessons and tools are easy to understand and customize for personal use. entrepreneurs business owners supervisors, managers, and team leaders operational leaders c-level executives clinicians and medical professionals pastors and ministry leaders freelancers authors divisional leaders public speakers directors sales and pr representatives presidents, vice presidents, and chairpersons agency leaders account managers public servants high-performance professionals leaders of all kinds rather than teaching you how to “get more done faster,” this course shows you how to identify the most important commitments and tasks and execute on them for powerful results. using the top tier strategies in this course, young leaders and elite professionals alike can free up time and energy to focus on their greatest priorities. register now what makes free to focus different from all the rest 01 | a comprehensive approach drawing on the greater context of your passions and well-being, free to focus goes beyond tools and tips to help you establish the right mindset and methods for productivity. 02 | priority focus this course gives you a way to single out what matters most to you, both in the short-term and long-term. other programs focus simply on task or time management. 03 | conforms to you other systems require time and effort for you to conform to their methodology. free to focus is the system that conforms to how you work, not the other way around. 04 | excellent customer support our customer experience team is dedicated to assisting you, answering your questions, and supporting your journey. they are here for you along the way. 05 | 30-day money-back guarantee if you feel that this program is not worth every penny, we will refund 100% of your money. we have high standards and want you to experience a true fit with this course. register now if you’ve read this far, what are you waiting for? if you’re like many of my students, you’ve tried a lot of other productivity systems before. you’ve bought books and read countless articles hoping to finally improve your workflow and reduce the amount of distractions you face. but somehow, despite what your best efforts, the strategies you’ve sought to adopt just haven’t lived up to the hype. the truth is, we live in a world that doesn’t value the things we value. nothing is sacred to a cell phone. when you’re expected to constantly be available, or you’re pressured to stay after 5 p.m. so you’ll be seen as “really committed,” your true priorities get the last of your attention. but here’s the good news: you don’t have to live this way. it’s time to say good-bye to that self-defeating lifestyle—the one where your family, friends, and passion projects finish last. (even your business suffers under this faulty model!) free to focus is the system that will bring clarity to the areas where interruptions and demands are clouding your view. better yet, it will amplify your ability to make your greatest contributions, both in the office and at home. you will actually get the freedom to focus—on everything that’s important to you. so don’t spend another moment stressed, stuck, or overwhelmed. become free to focus today. enroll now frequently asked questions if i’m already productive, will this course be helpful to me? absolutely yes. this course was designed to benefit high achievers, no matter where they are in their productivity journey. most people who would significantly benefit from this course are those who would already consider themselves decently productive. the truth is, the productivity system we use for one stage of our lives, careers, or businesses don’t always scale to get us to a higher tier. the more work you accomplish, the more work you’ll receive. since you’re already effective, you’re a responsibility magnet—and free to focus is the solution you need to manage life at that transformational level where you know how to zero in on the most important things regardless of the amount of requests you receive or the level of responsibility you attain. how is free to focus different from the book, free to focus? think of free to focus, the book, as a college class textbook. how many of you would just buy the textbook and not go through the class? you might be successful, but you often need the class to take action on the material. otherwise, the material is just information. buying free to focus is like reading the textbook. joining the free to focus course is like going through the class. the course allows you to implement the material in a way you couldn’t do on your own. the course workbook alone has templates and exercises the book doesn’t include. how is free to focus™ different from getting things done (gtd)? as you probably know, gtd stands for getting things done. it is a popular productivity methodology created by david allen. we are often asked how free to focus™ differs from it. first, gtd does work for some people. no question about it. however, in a survey we conducted last year of people who had read the book and attempted to implement it, only 25% felt the system worked for them. when we asked them why, they typically provided one or more of the following three reasons: first, gtd doesn’t provide a mechanism for filtering your lists. if you think of a task, you automatically put it on a list. before long, you end up with scores of lists and hundreds of tasks. second, they spent way too much time managing the system. rather than actually getting things done, they were constantly reviewing their lists and trying to figure out what to do next. because this can be so overwhelming, they ended up careening from one urgent item to the next. they also reported that they spent an inordinate amount of time searching for the perfect software tool to help them get things done. we still contend that there is nothing wrong with gtd per se; it’s just missing some key elements that free to focus™ provides: 1. the freedom compass™ provides the missing filter. you don't have to ingest everything into your system. tasks outside of your desire zone should be automatically challenged. 2. the cut framework—elimination, automation, and delegation—provides a process for dramatically reducing the number of tasks you have to manage. no one operates 100% in their desire zone, but the more you can, the fewer tasks you have to manage. 3. the big 3 makes for a very simple system that is easy to manage and keeps you focused throughout the day. as a result, you don’t just get more done, you get the right things done. do i have to use technology or adopt a new calendar or to-do list system in order to benefit from this course? not at all. we believe that any productivity system should conform to the way you choose to work, not the other way around. to implement the strategies in free to focus™, you don’t have to confine yourself to any particular calendar or to-do list method. we’ll emphasize what’s already effective for you and help you refine those methods. you're free to use only analog (pen and paper) solutions, only technology, or a combination of both. if you want to use technology, i’ll show you what programs and apps been helpful for me and how to use them. but even in our lesson on automation, using technology is totally optional! how will this course help me grow my business or build my career? let’s be honest: most leaders spend 80% of their workdays attending to the urgent, putting out fires, handling interruptions and email, and otherwise solving issues that do not affect the bottom line. that leaves only 20% of their workdays for high-leverage projects and priorities, such as forming new client relationships, developing new products, expanding into new markets, and more. free to focus™ allows you to flip the 80/20 ratio so that you are spending 80% of your workday on the things that matter most to the growth of your company and your career. that means a 300% increase in results for you. some who have already taken free to focus™ are seeing 30-40%+ increases in company revenue growth and personal compensation. others are seeing a return of 10-20 hours per week in their schedules that they can use to prioritize the people and projects that are most important. especially for those of you who are concerned about the price point or feel that you are too busy already to take the course, rest assured that you will see your investment multiply! how is free to focus different from 5 days to your best year ever and full focus planner imagine looking at your year from 15,000 feet, then from 5,000 feet, then at ground level. the 5 days to your best year ever course is the 15,000 foot view, which helps you plan your annual goals and live your year with intention. free to focus™ is the 5,000 foot view. it’ll help you finally make progress on the big goals you’ve casted for the year. it focuses on your day-to-day productivity, deconstructing and rebuilding your daily work processes and helping you prioritize what matters: task by task, hour by hour. the full focus planner is your ground level view. it helps you design your days and achieve your goals with this new understanding of productivity in mind. with all three working in unison, you can almost guarantee you’ll make progress on your most important projects and goals this year. can free to focus™ help me stay focused on the important priorities and goals i’ve already identified? for some people who are seasoned leaders, your priorities may already be clear, but that doesn’t mean your path to pursuing them is. even if you know exactly where you should be spending your time, i bet you find it difficult to stay focused or spend as much time in your desire zone as you’d like (or your business needs). (if you’re not familiar with the desire zone, it’s explained further in the course as the place where your passions and proficiency meet.) in free to focus™ modules 2 and 3, michael will show you exactly how to clear the path -- and how to organize your weeks and days so your most important priorities take their rightful place on the top of your list. will i receive anything in the mail? the free to focus™ course is 100% digital, so you will receive everything online. your instant access to all the material begins when you set up your account after purchase. what happens after i purchase free to focus? we’ll send you a confirmation email with details about how to set up your account. once you do so, you’ll be able to log into the course and start as soon as you’re ready. why should i buy now? here are 3 reasons to buy now: 1. i’ve sunsetted the free to focus online course. this is the only time you could buy it at this low price. 2. it turns the principles of the book into actionable steps. you can leverage the tools and templates inside the course to take immediate action on free to focus. 3. this is a limited time opportunity. because i want you to take action on what you learned as fast as possible, i’m ending this deal after thursday, april 18th at 11:59pm pacific. then the price will jump back up $200. what if this doesn’t work for me? if free to focus is not satisfactory for you, let us know within the first 30 days, and we’ll give you a full refund. we want you to feel confident about your purchase. don’t worry—we believe that you’ll get a lot of value out of this course. how do i get a refund? email our team at support@freetofocus.com, and we’ll address your refund within one or two business days, if not immediately. our team is very responsive and would love to help you. how long will i have access to this course? you have lifetime access after purchasing the course. you do not have to renew at any point. what if i have more questions? contact our customer support team at support@freetofocus.com. they will gladly assist you and answer any further questions you may have. login faq ©2020 michael hyatt & company, llc permissions privacy policy support close video close video close video close video close video close video close video close video close video close video