skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search free themes probably the best free wordpress themes for wedding, photography, news, travel, business, portfolio, magazine and other websites. on colorlib you will find dozens of wordpress theme collections with hundreds of free wordpress themes for any website. all themes are hand picked and tested by our reviews. we list only fast, seo friendly, responsive and mobile-friendly themes. collections are regularly updated to include the latest themes. feel free to ask questions on comments section below each collection in case you have any questions. home » free themes 20+ awesome premium and free under construction/coming soon wordpress themes – 2020 march 23, 2020 aigars free themes, plugins, theme collections 26 comments list of the best coming soon wordpress themes that you can use as landing, under construction or coming soon pages. all these themes are packed with a progress bar and/or countdown timer to keep track of your progress. themes are packed with custom subscription forms, contact forms and social media icons. read more→ 37 free responsive corporate wordpress themes for startups & medium businesses 2020 january 18, 2020 aigars free themes, theme collections 57 comments gone are the days when consumers run to stores or malls just to see the product that they're interested in. today, most of them turn to the internet to gather information about an item, product or service that they want… read more→ 9+ complete car store shopify products for quick shop-building january 17, 2020 lana miro ecommerce, free themes, theme collections 0 comments did you decide to boost your sales in 2020? well, you are on the right page in this case. today i’m about to show you ten simple ways to promote. everyone can develop their business these days. there is no… read more→ 10 free & premium shopify clothing themes january 17, 2020 lana miro ecommerce, free themes, theme collections, website templates 0 comments would you like to start an online business for a long time, win numerous customers, and have more income, but you are not very familiar with web design? just as a hint - there are a lot of free ready-made… read more→ 28 best free wordpress themes built with bootstrap framework for business, portfolio & personal blogs – 2020 january 17, 2020 aigars free themes, theme collections 60 comments looking to combine bootstrap with wordpress. these bootstrap wordpress themes are exactly what you need. bootstrap is a responsive grid-based framework that helps amateur and professional designers develop their own website straightforwardly. it is a well-known front-end framework that works… read more→ 63 beautiful & free wordpress themes to build awesome websites 2020 january 17, 2020 aigars free themes, theme collections 363 comments wordpress is indisputably the most preferred cms platform on the web. due to the popularity and development of wordpress cms, themes that are specially made for sites powered by wordpress also gained considerable fame in the market. users love wordpress… read more→ 37 beautiful & responsive free photography wordpress themes for photographers and photo bloggers 2020 january 17, 2020 aigars free themes, photography, theme collections 33 comments today we'll look into free photography wordpress themes for professional and hobby photographers. interest in photography, both as a hobby and profession, has boomed in the last 10 years. one of the reasons why people are eager to take photographs… read more→ 33 free & responsive flat design wordpress themes for portfolio and corporate websites 2019 december 5, 2019 aigars free themes 22 comments flat website design allows your business or brand to stand out without all the bells and whistles on your website. despite the absence of additional embellishments, the flat design still looks attractive and charming. with a flat design theme's plain… read more→ 30+ free wordpress travel themes for travel blogs and travel agency websites 2019 november 17, 2019 aigars free themes 54 comments to be curious is to be human. it is said that routine represents the demise of the human soul, and what better way is there of keeping routine at bay? traveling is not about spending money, or posting pictures online,… read more→ 29 the best free woocommerce optimized wordpress themes 2019 october 14, 2019 aigars ecommerce, free themes 103 comments wordpress, without a doubt, is the most popular blogging platform, as it powers nearly 35% of all the websites today. the number of new wordpress websites being created is continuously growing each day. read more→ 25+ best free, beautiful & responsive wordpress magazine themes to build awesome news websites 2019 september 30, 2019 aigars free themes 125 comments in this day and age when news and information are instantly rendered to audiences via blogs and social media, people still prefer to validate that unfounded information through their trusted magazines or news portals. instead of leafing through an actual… read more→ 40+ awesome & free responsive wordpress themes to build beautiful websites with no cost for design – 2019 september 30, 2019 aigars free themes 6 comments here we present some of the best free responsive wordpress themes to take your website to the next level. most of these themes are as good as many premium themes out there. we hope that you will find this list… read more→ 29 best free wordpress themes for startups 2019 august 26, 2019 alex ivanovs free themes 1 comment do you know how much it costs to design a "professional" website? it can range anywhere from $10,000 to $50,000 per project. and god knows how much any further customization is going to cost you. it's simply not viable for… read more→ 30 best free wordpress blog themes for lifestyle, food, fashion, personal, corporate blogs 2019 july 1, 2019 alex ivanovs free themes 6 comments demand for websites continues to grow at a steady pace. as more people find interest in writing and diverging their professions to sub-categories, a website is a wonderful way to maximize exposure to new clients and readership. in marketing, a… read more→ 28 beautiful & free responsive wordpress portfolio themes 2019 may 30, 2019 aigars free themes, photography 50 comments this is a hand-picked collection of the finest free wordpress themes for business, portfolio, corporate, personal and any other website. portfolio themes offer a functional framework for people, groups or entities who would like to show off their artwork, photography… read more→ 29 best free one page wordpress themes 2019 may 30, 2019 alex ivanovs free themes 0 comments wordpress is largely based on a multiple page layout schema, which wasn't typically the case. when wordpress was first launched, it was only a blogging platform. nowadays, it is actively being utilized for enterprise needs, and many businesses have transitioned… read more→ page 1 page 2 page 3 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×