skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search free plugins home » free plugins top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 march 27, 2020 vishnu plugins 7 comments looking to integrate google maps into your website? these popular google maps plugins for wordpress will help you to get started in no time. it is quite easy to include an interactive map on your website. just submit your location… read more→ 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 1 comment collecting money for a good cause is not always an easy task. but you can make it a little easier for yourself by adding a prominent donation button on your website. while a collection box placed near any street corner… read more→ the best free wordpress font plugins to change fonts with ease 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 2 comments a major and important part of any web design is typography. the type of fonts that you use on your website reflects the nature of your website and can help to reinforce your brand in the visitors' minds. for instance,… read more→ 21 best free wordpress booking plugins 2020 march 27, 2020 rokr plugins 4 comments your reservation- and appointment-based businesses are fully sorted with free wordpress booking plugins. while you can sign up with some of the world's leading online websites to do the booking and promotion for you, sometimes, it is better to have… read more→ top 28 free wpbakery page builder (visual composer) addons & extensions for wordpress 2020 march 26, 2020 alex ivanovs plugins 15 comments wpbakery page builder was the first-ever wordpress plugin for building pages that support addons/plugins. wpbakery page builder has been growing in popularity since early 2011. although more than 1m websites are using wpbakery page builder today, the fact that the… read more→ top 21 free & paid drag & drop page builder wordpress plugins 2020 march 26, 2020 alex ivanovs plugins 17 comments why do people go for wordpress? why is it the most popular blogging platform there is? certainly, every blogger will have a different answer to these questions, but what will remain is a simple foundation, the fact that wordpress makes… read more→ 17 best search plugins for wordpress to make the most out of search 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 33 comments here you will find all the best wordpress search plugins for your website to replace flimsy default wordpress search. did you know that the default wordpress search engine isn’t really that efficient (and awesome) like the rest of wordpress? although… read more→ top wordpress maintenance plugins to handle planned website downtime like a pro march 26, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 2 comments i've already discussed what causes unplanned downtime and what unplanned downtime might cost a business in a previous article. this post, on the other hand, looks at how you can tackle some planned downtime. planned downtime may be due to… read more→ 6 best wordpress auction plugins march 25, 2020 colorlibauthor plugins 0 comments when you start an ecommerce business, you need to take things into consideration, including the add-ons and plugins you have to include in your pages. for example, ebay uses the auction feature for business purposes. it is an excellent advantage… read more→ 20 best free wordpress plugins for multisites for 2020 march 25, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 3 comments many users run not one, but multiple sites. if you're using wordpress, you really do not have to build each site from scratch. you can install wordpress and then run as many websites as you want off the single install.… read more→ 7 best wordpress file upload plugins march 25, 2020 colorlibauthor plugins 0 comments here you will find all the best wordpress file upload plugins to upload, store and send files from your website. uploading files from your computer to your wordpress website might be challenging if you don’t have the right plugin to… read more→ the best wordpress pdf viewer plugins 2020 march 24, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 6 comments when you run a blog or a website, there likely will be many instances when you want to display pdf files on the web pages. by default, wordpress does not support the embedding of pdf files, and you can display… read more→ the best free wordpress pricing table plugins 2020 march 24, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 0 comments selling a product is never an easy task, and selling online is a great deal more difficult. when you sell a product online, it's important to remember that your potential customers have many other options, and you need to convince… read more→ best 15 wordpress recipe plugins 2020 march 23, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 6 comments quite a number of people, such as top chefs, moms who cook four meals a day, bachelor boys who can cook up a basic meal, and anyone who can whip up a storm in the kitchen, want to share their… read more→ top 17 wordpress instagram plugins 2020 march 23, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 6 comments marketing on social media has taken off in a big way, and instagram is among the more popular platforms. with the average number of people active daily on instagram exceeding 500 million, that's a market that you really cannot afford… read more→ the best wordpress plugins to optimize images 2020 march 23, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 7 comments images are an integral part of most websites. no doubt, a striking image helps to attract viewers and hold their attention. does this mean that you should go ahead and add as many images as you can? sadly, that's not… read more→ page 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×