free republic forum account mail pings post help register sign in / out welcome to free republic! conservatives for god, family, country! est. 1996 resource links: accuracy in media alamo-girl.com american conservative union americans for tax reform ann coulter ayn rand center campaign for liberty cato institute center for security policy citizens united claremont institute club for growth conservative chronicle constitution society cwa eagle forum enter stage right federalist society fiedor report focus on the family free congress foundation freedomworks fr on facebook gathering of eagles gertz file gun owners of america heritage foundation horowitz freedom center itools (dictionaries) leadership institute lloyd marcus lucianne.com melanie morgan media research center move america forward national rifle association national right to life national tax-limitation comm. national taxpayers union oath keepers refdesk.com renew america republican jewish coalition swift vets tea party express tea party patriots traditional values coalition u.s. flag balloon veteranaid.org victor davis hanson winter soldier young america's foundation young americans for liberty media links: abc news american spectator asheville tribune asia times boston globe boston herald breitbart c-span cbs news chicago tribune chicago sun-times christian broadcasting network christian science monitor cnn cnsnews.com conservative treehouse daily caller dallas morning news drudge report fox news frontpage mag google news hill news human events investor's business daily jewish world review las vegas sun libertynation los angeles times msnbc national review news link newsmax ny daily news new york post new york times oc register opinion journal patriot post post-gazette reason magazine roll call salon magazine telegraph (uk) times online (uk) town hall union leader u.s. news & world report usa today wall street journal washington post washington times weekly standard worldnetdaily yahoo news legal groups: james madison center judicial watch landmark legal foundation pacific justice institute southeastern legal foundation thomas more law center political links: american conservative union california gop constitution party democrats.org gallup gop usa libertarian party nfra nrsc open secrets politics1.com projectvotesmart real clear politics republican liberty caucus republican national committee government links: congress.org executive branch judicial branch legislative branch library of congress loc thomas dir the white house u.s. house u.s. senate u.s. supreme court usa.gov usa.gov by state military links: air national guard army national guard defenselink.mil (u.s. dod) military.com u.s. air force u.s. army u.s. coast guard u.s. marine corps u.s. navy welcome to free republic! established in 1996, free republic is one of the earliest and largest online gathering places for independent, grass-roots conservatism on the web. we're working to roll back decades of governmental largesse, to root out political fraud and corruption, and to champion causes which further conservatism in america. and we always have fun doing it. hoo-yah! jump right in! most visitors to free republic are attracted to our very popular (and, warning: addictive) conservative news and discussion forum which can be found by clicking here or following any of the forum links in the sidebars. support free republic: free republic is a privately owned web site funded solely by donations from our readers and participants. donations and official correspondence should be mailed to: free republic, llc po box 9771 fresno, ca 93794 support free republic via our secure server link for credit card or paypal. donations to free republic are not tax deductible. if you need to update your credit card or monthly information, please click on our secure server link for credit card above and submit a new monthly. we will delete your old one for you. if you have a paypal monthly and need to change it, please log in to your paypal account to delete your existing paypal subscription and then enter a new one. if you have questions about your donation or credit card transaction to free republic or need help, please write to jim robinson at: jimrob@psnw.com or call and leave a message for jim robinson on his cell phone: (559) 273-1400 thank you very much for your support! obama did not build this. the freepers did!! who reads fr? over 400,000 people have registered for posting privileges on free republic since inception in 1996 and our forum is read daily by over one hundred thousand freedom loving citizens and patriots from all around the country, and all around the world. we're currently delivering over twenty million pageviews per month to over one million monthly visitors. oh, we're big stuff all right: traffic rank on alexa.com. who runs fr? free republic, llc is a non-commercial, limited liability company founded and operated by jim robinson (jimrob@psnw.com), a private citizen of fresno california. free republic is not a for profit commercial enterprise in the sense of a traditional business selling a product or service at a profit for its shareholders. we sell no product or service. we have no clients, customers or employees. we do not accept paid advertising. free republic is not affiliated with any political party, group, news source, government agency or anyone else. free republic is not a traditional business. we are a political discussion forum and independent grassroots conservative activist group supported by donations from our readers and participants. when and if our participants decide we are no longer needed or viable, we will close down shop and go away. free republic operates on an approximate $360,000 annual budget (click for breakdown) which includes all equipment costs, bandwidth fees, consulting and labor costs, administrative costs, license fees, insurance, rents, communications costs, office expenses, advertising, travel, professional fees, banking and credit card fees, taxes, etc. like most labor intensive organizations, the bulk of our costs are personnel related. we have one general manager and webmaster, one systems, programming and computer guru, one programming and management assistant and one bookkeeper/business administrator. the four of us are all members (partners) of the llc. we own and operate our own servers and our proprietary software was developed and is maintained inhouse. free republic is not a charity or irs non-profit organization. we do not raise funds for charitable purposes or causes. we raise funds solely to cover our operating costs, labor, and all applicable state and federal income and payroll taxes. important legal notice re: copyright restrictions: official dmca copyright infringement notification our website follows the safe harbor provisions of 17 u.s.c. §512, otherwise known as digital millennium copyright act (“dmca”). to file a copyright infringement notification with us, you will need to send a written communication that includes substantially the following: a physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed. identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed, or, if multiple copyrighted works at a single online site are covered by a single notification, a representative list of such works at that site. identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled, and information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to locate the material. providing urls in the body of an email is the best way to help us locate content quickly. information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to contact the complaining party, such as an address, telephone number, and, if available, an electronic mail address at which the complaining party may be contacted. a statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law. a statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that the complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed (note that under section 512(f) any person who knowingly and materially misrepresents that material or activity is infringing may be subject to liability for damages. in other words, don’t make false claims! to expedite our ability to process your request, such written notice should be sent to our designated agent whose contact information is available via our “dmca designated agent” listed below: james c. robinson free republic, llc post office box 9771 fresno, california 93794 and or by email to: jimrob@psnw.com general copyright statement: most of the sourced material posted to free republic is posted according to the "fair use" doctrine of copyright law for non-commercial news reporting, education and discussion purposes. we used to post full text of most articles so we could document history as it's being made, but more and more news agencies are now requesting us to post excerpts and links only to their material, and some are requesting that we post no material at all from their sites. we are complying with all such requests. click here for the latest list of copyright requests. please send takedown requests to: jimrob@psnw.com disclaimer: opinions expressed on free republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of free republic or its operators. please enjoy our forum, but also please remember to use common courtesy when posting and refrain from posting personal attacks, profanity, vulgarity, threats, racial or religious bigotry, or any other materials offensive or otherwise inappropriate for a conservative family audience. free republic is a non-commercial site. please do not post advertising, solicitations, spam or any other commercial messages. do not spam us with links to your own site. no one likes spam. free republic is a site dedicated to the concerns of traditional grassroots conservative activists. we're here to discuss and advance our conservative causes in a more or less liberal-free environment. we're not here to debate liberals. we do not want our pages filled with their arrogant, obnoxious, repugnant bile. liberals, usurpers, and other assorted malcontents are considered unwelcome trolls on fr and their accounts and or posts will be summarily dismissed at the convenience of the site administrators. free republic does not advocate or condone racism, violence, rebellion, secession, or an overthrow of the government. free republic advocates a return to constitutionally limited government, reserving all government powers not expressly delegated by the constitution to the united states to the states respectively, or the people, emphasizing sovereign state governments, local government, self-government and self-rule, while restricting government powers to only those enumerated in the constitution and maximizing individual rights and liberty as originally envisioned and established by our founding fathers and secured and defended by the blood of patriots and statesmen for over two hundred years. "we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.-- that to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, -- that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness." -- the declaration of independence, in congress, july 4, 1776 "the enumeration in the constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people." -- the ninth amendment to the u.s. constitution "the powers not delegated to the united states by the constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved to the states respectively, or to the people." -- the tenth amendment to the u.s. constitution "in this present crisis, government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem. from time to time we've been tempted to believe that society has become too complex to be managed by self-rule, that government by an elite group is superior to government for, by, and of the people. well, if no one among us is capable of governing himself, then who among us has the capacity to govern someone else?" -- ronald reagan, january 20, 1981 ~ free republic memorial wall ~ forums: bloggers & personal general interest chat gop club news/activism religion rlc caucus smoky backroom vetscor all of the above topics: latest posts latest articles breaking news front page news editorials/opinions activism/chapters business/economy conserv/constitution crime/corruption culture/society foreign affairs government news/current events philosophy politics/elections political humor sports your opinion daily threads: america/right way amy's place astronomy pic/day daily prayer thread fr saddle club freeper canteen poetry & potpourri prayer requests prayers for tiny baby terri schiavo the hobbit hole threat matrix word for the day zot! because we can talkshow threads: andrew wilkow howie carr jesse peterson jim vicevich mark levin quinn & rose rush limbaugh savage nation sean hannity talkshow links: howie carr hugh hewitt jesse peterson jim quinn jim vicevich laura ingraham mark levin neal boortz rush limbaugh sean hannity copyright © 1996 - to the present free republic, llc po box 9771, fresno, ca 93794 jimrob@psnw.com (559) 273-1400 contact webmaster: jimrob@psnw.com media inquiries: mr. kristinn taylor kristinn@bellatlantic.net (202) 309-1589 link to copyright/trademark concerns/inquiries dmca contact info