call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact financial advice for real people straightforward honest financial advice in plain english our servicescontact us why choose freedom advice retirement planning wealth management savings & investments why choose us honest and professional plain english advice flexible meetings experienced advisors independent fca regulated trust freedom advice freedom advice assists people from all walks of life in reaching their financial goals. we pride ourselves on the quality of our advice and of our high service levels that supports that advice. explore our services call us today 0113 829 3465 contact us we can help with… pension review services director pensions self employed pensions tax efficient planning personal pensions stakeholder pensions we’ll show you freedom we aim to help our clients enjoy retirement and remove the fear of running out of money. retirement should be an enjoyable time of our lives. it is never too early to begin discussing this, as the sooner the better for you. learn more our service we consult with companies to create both an asset allocation model and a selection of investment funds. we review the portfolio every quarter. the portfolio assessments then form a central part of our regular reviews. online client login we provide an online wealth management platform which enables clients to securely access plan information at a summary and detailed level. existing client login we can help with… planning for future events lump sum investments isas – cash, stocks, shares investment bonds investment trusts investing for tax efficiency your future do you want to save for a rainy day? a brighter tomorrow? or plan long-term for the future? we’ll carefully assess your tolerance to risk – and capacity for loss – and identify the right solutions for you. explore our services experienced independent financial advisor freedom advice specialises in: 1 retirement planning 2 savings and investment 3 equity release 4 wills we care about your future freedom advice are the best choice for your financial planning. explore our servicesget a quote we support your financial interest freedom advice are the best choice for your financial planning. explore our servicesget a quote custom investing strategies freedom advice are the best choice for your financial planning. explore our servicesget a quote the best financial support freedom advice are the best choice for your financial planning. explore our servicesget a quote discover our solutions freedom advice understands that everyone has different needs and goals. we use our knowledge and expertise to accurately answer your queries and work with you. whether you have complex or simple needs, we will be there to help you for the long term. explore our services what we do freedom advice provides solutions and then works with clients during their lifetime to ensure they remain suitable as and when circumstances change. explore our services our mission we pledge to never work for providers and never push or sell products. we promise to only ever tell the truth and enjoy long lasting relationships with our clients, as they benefit from increased value thanks to the way we work. explore our services trust freedom advice we will provide you with the service we have agreed at outset and will keep in regular contact with you. whether that is a simple commitment to call back at a certain time or an explanation as to how an investment should perform we will stay in touch. explore our services our services we provides a range of services for clients, delivering increased value and helping you achieve your goals easier and quicker. retirement planning at freedom advice mortgage advice at freedom advice savings and investment at freedom advice equity release with freedom advice all the help i needed louis gave me all the help and advice i needed to get my first mortgage, his ability to simplify complicated processes in warm and friendly manor makes him a pleasure to deal with. i know he is only a phone call away if i need any financial guidance. i would highly recommend his services. - lyndsey (castleford) business is doing great louis has sorted out mortgages, cash investments and ftse investments out on our behalf and between us we have certainly started to make our money work for us. the approach is always very friendly and appointments are always arranged to suit the client. - karl slater it was possible to retire without lowering my standard of living my wife and i had a lengthy meeting with mr louis dyson - who looked at all my finances accordingly. following this discussion louis subsequently advised that it was possible to retire without lowering my standard of living therefore this i did in july 2011. louis has since looked after all my financial affairs and i can certainly say this has always been to a high standard.he explains everything clearly and i have always been impressed by his help and advice. - peter windress assisted me with my various aspects of my personal finances i first started working with louis dyson in may 2010. he has assisted me with my various aspects of my personal finances, being very supportive of my wish to invest ethically, tailoring the products and services we discuss to my needs with this stance in mind. - aly call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.