skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about free online daily classes for kids to help while schools are closed by naomi willis | last updated 26th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links share tweet pin stuck with fun ways for your kids to learn from home? here are free online classes for kids to keep their education going. i think pretty much every school in the country has been sharing school work for the kids to complete each day. at first, we printed everything out, and my daughter worked through them. but, filling in sheet after sheet is boring, and they are probably not learning anything new. and, that’s not to mention the sheer cost of printer ink and paper! this means we need to become teacher and be active by moving away from endless form filling. but that also means we need to stop working from home and stop earning. free online classes for kids so, with thanks to a few celebrities, they are putting on classes every day – for free. if you like a bit of structure in your lives, here’s how your child’s new school day could look: (if you know of any other free online classes for kids, please do leave a comment below and we can add it in. thank you.) 9am – pe with joe wicks get started each day with a bit of activity! joe (the body coach guy who does the lean in 15 books) is offering exercise classes monday – friday until the kids go back to school. each day, he starts with a warm-up, then exercises, then a warm down. he’s even inventing exercises to keep kids engaged, like the spiderman, the pikachu and jumping to catch shooting stars. make sure you have a big bottle of water to keep hydrated! by the way, don’t think that because this is aimed at kids that adults can’t take part – any age can join in. if the exercises are a little tough, he has also designed some home workouts for seniors too, which are less strenuous. > pe with joe 10.00am – maths with carol vorderman take part in fun (yes, fun!) maths challenges with carol vorderman. there are a variety of tasks, each tailored to different levels. they are best for kids aged 4 – 11 years old. the classes usually cost around £2 per week, but they are now free for everyone so kids can continue to learn. > maths with carol 11.00am – english with david walliams listen to an audiobook each day, read by david walliams. when we’ve done this, i’ve suggested my daughter draws a picture or cartoon strip while the book is being read. after the story, we talk about the story, what she liked, the characters etc > english with david 12.00pm – lunch or art jamie oliver has shared a selection of easy, kid-friendly recipes to help get kids cooking. use the recipes to make lunchtime more fun. > cooking with jamie 1.00pm – music with myleene klass or gareth malone it doesn’t matter if you are a professional singer, or just like to blast out a song for fun – you can now join (probably) the biggest online choir in the uk. gareth has started the great british home chorus and give some voice warm-ups and guides you through rehearsals. you don’t just have to sing, but can use it as an opportunity to practice an instrument too. rehearsals are live at 5:30 (so you could treat it as an after school club live, or take part the next day). you can get sheet music and lyrics so you can join in. > great british home chorus with gareth these classes may be better for younger kids to replace baby groups or music groups. it’s still lovely to listen and have a sing-along. > music with myleene 1.30pm – dance with darcey bussel join the strictly judge for an afternoon dance session. the classes are streaming live on facebook. > dance with darcey 2.00pm – history with dan snow history with dan is free for the first 30 days. > history with dan obviously, to keep things free for longer, why not try watching horrible histories which gives you history lessons with a bit of a twist. you can watch 5 series of them on netflix. 4.00pm – home economics with theo michaels theo michaels is offering live cooking classes for kids each monday and wednesday. he promises plenty of mess and dinner at the end of it! he is sharing simple foods with just a few ingredients, which makes it perfect if you have low supplies. watch live on youtube or via his instagram. > kids cook along with theo view this post on instagram live – wednesday 25th march @ 4pm here’s what you need to make our cheats gnocchi! . serves 4 . – 400g pre-cooked potatoes (see note below) – 300g / about 2 mugs (500ml) plain flour – 1 egg (you can make without eggs) . sauce (optional) – butter or olive oil – 1 clove garlic, sliced – 2 tomatoes (or dollop tomato puree) – cheese to grate on top . equipment: – frying pan – saucepan – mixing bowl – fork . note: peel the potatoes and boil whole until cooked through then drain and leave at room temperature you could do this today and take out the fridge an hour before we start or do it tomorrow early afternoon. 400g is about 2 baking potatoes, i only have these regular white ones so will be using about 5 of them. try to use floury ones rather than new potatoes or charlotte potatoes that are waxy – but hey, we’re cooking with kids and times are tough so use what you’ve got! . see you tomorrow! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . #kidscookwiththeo #theocooks #gnocchi #cookingathome #homeschooling #cookalong #livecookalong #livecooking #kidscookingschool #kidscooking #kidscookingclasses a post shared by theo michaels (@theocooks) on mar 24, 2020 at 6:09am pdt daily online classes this schedule is more of a suggestion. many of the classes are live, but that doesn’t mean you need to take part in them while they’re happening. don’t worry if you join 10 minutes late or if you want to start them the next day. all the videos and resources will still be there to pick up whenever you need. in fact, starting a little late could mean you can fast forward the “hellos” and get straight into the good stuff. on top of the ones suggested above, you could also take part in: computer science: learn programming from home with fun online tutorials, aimed at 5 – 13 year olds: https://code.org/ science with professor brian cox, robin ince & guests: https://cosmicshambles.com/stayathome/upcoming-schedule geography with steve backshall: https://twitter.com/stevebackshall/status/1242058846941712385 geography/wildlife with chris packham: https://www.facebook.com/chrisgpackham/ art – join pete mckee for daily cartoon workshops on youtube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/ucjpnmijkgj-vxuohsn2xxta creative writing with children’s author eloise williams: https://padlet.com/joanna_suvarna/get_creative_with_eloise for your older kids, here are 50 free revision resources for 11+, gcses and a-levels: http://www.eparenting.co.uk/education/50_free_revision_resources_for_gcse_a_level_11_plus_and_sats.php so, why not mix things up and try something new each day. :: on checking with our school, they are not expecting any of the home learning sheets/lessons to be handed in when the kids go back, and they won’t be marking them. this may well be different from school to school and will change depending on the age of your children. one thing to also think about – don’t let them enjoy home school too much or they’ll never want to go back to real school! enjoy and be safe x looking for things to keep you entertained? why not look to earn money with some of the best surveys sites in the uk. :: come and join thousands of other savvy shoppers in the skint dad facebook community to find out tips and tricks to save money on everything. enjoy this post? why not also sign up to receive our newsletter. we send out all the best money saving news and tips from the site and as an added bonus you’ll get an exclusive £16 cashback from quidco (new members only) naomi willis naomi knows the burden of living on very little and became debt free by learning from past mistakes and following her own money saving tips and tricks. skintdad.co.uk * to ensure skint dad remains completely free to use, this post may contain affiliate links. contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about