home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog airborne everyday giveaway april 1, 2015 by erin weiss leave a comment i recently started taking airborne everyday chewy vitamins and they are like candy. i have a hard time just having my two daily allotted gummies. have you ever tried airborne? if you're like me, your days are jam packed between work, the gym, home chaos and still trying to have a social life. sometimes it's hard for me to remember to take my daily vitamin but airborne … [read more...] quest bar giveaway – quest nutrition march 6, 2014 by erin weiss 7 comments holy moly -- i have an awesome giveaway for you guys today!!! i have big news!!! i have teamed up with quest nutrition!!! as you probably already know from my facebook and instagram pages, i've been totally obsessed with these delicious bars lately. i went to gnc the other day and stocked up on just about every flavor. so far i have not been disappointed by any of the … [read more...] free valentine’s day card february 7, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment this is fun and i thought i'd share it with you guys! it's your chance to make a cute and free valentine's day card for your loved one! through 2/10, new customers can get a personalized valentine's day card, up to a $3.49 value, free with code vdayfree at treat. choose from a variety of designs, which can be customized with your own photos and text. shipping is free if you … [read more...] charming ties giveaway – enter on livelifeactive’s facebook page january 4, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment it's been too long since i've done a giveaway so here we go!!! almost every girl has a hair tie on their wrist at all times....just in case their hair annoys them and they need to pull it up, right? charming ties has a solution for that that boring black hair tie on your wrist. they make cute hair ties that look like a charm bracelet when on your wrist, and super cute when … [read more...] blood sweat and cheers june 10, 2013 by erin weiss 10 comments by now you guys know that i'm a sucker for anything that allows me to stay active and do something unique and adventurous weather it be a mud run, zip-lining, obstacle course races or anything in between. well i've found a site that helps me find all these fun adventures and the site is called blood sweat & cheers! it’s a fun and funny email spotlighting the latest … [read more...] koss fitclips giveaway winners june 4, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment for the past week, 229 entries have been submitted into my koss headphones giveaway. it's now time to pick four lucky winners!!!! i'm so excited for you guys to try these headphones. i went rollerblading with mine last night and i can't get enough of them!!! they block out a ton of surrounding noise, feel comfortable, don't move in your ear and the sound quality is … [read more...] koss headphone giveaway may 28, 2013 by erin weiss 26 comments do you remember last week when i mentioned the amazingly cute earphones that i fell in love with? they fit perfectly in my ear, sound great and are designed for the female athlete? here's my post from earlier in case you missed it. well.....the amazing folks at koss offered to give away four sets of headphones to four lucky readers!!! 2 fitclips and 2 fitbuds. yay! … [read more...] marika giveaway winner march 6, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment last week, i posted about the marika fitness giveaway that i was hosting. well i got a ton of entries (thank you) and i've chosen my winner!!! the winner of this adorable workout top.... goes to..... beth ann donnelly!!!!! congrats girl!!! send me your address to livelifeactive@gmail.com :) enjoy your new workout tank!!! thank you so much, marika … [read more...] marika fitness giveaway february 26, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment hey guys! i have partnered up with the lovely crew at marika fitness to do a giveaway for you my readers!! you have several ways to enter to win this adorable tank. they sent me one to try before i recommended it to you guys, and i absolutely love it! it's so cute and super comfy! i will pick a winner in a week! you have a ton of chances to win this tank!!! good … [read more...] baddass giveaway november 28, 2012 by erin weiss 52 comments it's time for another amazing giveaway for one of you lucky ducks!!! the fabulous folks over at baddass nutrition (awesome name, huh??!) are allowing me to host a giveaway for you guys :) one lucky winner will get to choose which option below they want, for free!!! 1. baddass shred to help sred fat and stimulate muscle growth. $60 value. 2. 1 bottle of raspberry … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in