donate help contact joyful learning starts here! inspire a lifetime of learning and discovery with our free, fun educational program for children ages two to seven. 100% free! no ads, no subscriptions. new first-grade lessons we’ve added thousands of new activities, exercises, books, and more. kids will love to learn focused on the whole child our program engages kids in core subjects like early literacy, reading, writing, language, and math, while encouraging creativity and building social-emotional skills. joyful five whimsical, charming characters—including narrator kodi bear—guide kids through activities and stories. engaging original interactive activities, books, animated videos, games, and creative lessons captivate children’s attention. developed by experts khan academy kids was developed in collaboration with learning experts at stanford and aligned with the head start early learning outcomes framework and common core standards. 100% free you’ll never see ads. you’ll never need a subscription. adaptive learning path our personalized learning path dynamically adapts, ensuring each child is presented with activities, books, educational videos, and creative lessons that allow them to learn at their own pace, creating an individualized experience for every learner. independent learning kids can also learn independently in the khan academy kids library—a curated collection of activities, books, videos, and coloring pages. our book reader allows kids to follow along with recorded audio narration or read on their own across our fiction, non-fiction, and fiction leveled books. parents love us “every day i am amazed @khanacademykids is free, and i am so grateful for how much it has contributed to my kid’s development.” j. hernandez, via twitter “parents: if you are looking for an educational app for your 2-5 yr old, download @khanacademykids - seriously most research-based, engaging, non-annoying app. and it’s free.” t. peltier, via twitter “my 4-year old is working on @khanacademy’s app @khanacademykids this morning and loving it. the combo of school facts along with social/emotional content is outstanding.” m. nemerow, via twitter award-winning program download the app! our partners follow us © 2020 khan academy kids | terms of use | privacy policy joyful learning starts here! inspire a lifetime of learning and discovery with our free, fun educational program for children ages two to seven. 100% free! no ads. no subscriptions. new first grade lessons we’ve added thousands of new activities, lessons, books, and more. kids will love to learn. focused on the whole child our program engages kids in core subjects like early literacy, reading, writing, language, and math, while encouraging creativity and building social-emotional skills. five whimsical, charming characters—including narrator kodi bear—guide kids through activities and stories. joyful engaging original interactive activities, books, animated videos, games, and creative lessons captivate children’s attention. developed by experts khan academy kids was developed in collaboration with learning experts at stanford and aligned with the head start early learning outcomes framework and common core standards. you’ll never see ads. you’ll never need a subscription. 100% free unique for every learner. adaptive learning path our personalized learning path dynamically adapts, ensuring each child is presented with activities, books, educational videos, and creative lessons that allow them to learn at their own pace, creating an individualized experience for every learner. independent learning kids can also learn independently in the khan academy kids library—a curated collection of activities, books, videos, and coloring pages. our book reader allows kids to follow along with recorded audio narration or read on their own across our fiction, non-fiction and fiction leveled books. parents love us. “my 4-year old is working on @khanacademykids this morning and loving it. the combo of school facts along with social/emotional content is outstanding.” m. nemerow, via twitter award-winning program download the app! our partners follow us © 2020 khan academy kids | terms of use | privacy policy unique for every learnerlearn morelearn more is your school closed or preparing plans for closure because of the coronavirus (covid-19)? get help here. is your school closed or preparing plans for closure because of the coronavirus (covid-19)? get help here.