skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources freelance writing freelance resource review: freelance writers den december 9, 2019 by miranda marquit 1 comment looking for tips on higher paying gigs and access to a freelance resource toolbox? the freelance writers den can be a solid choice. one of the realities of going out and getting higher-paying gigs … continue reading about freelance resource review: freelance writers den freelance income goals — why they’re not for me november 25, 2019 by miranda marquit 2 comments we hear a lot about setting freelance income goals and other income goals. they aren't my thing. here's why. working in the world of online financial content often comes with its own fomo. after … continue reading about freelance income goals — why they’re not for me journalism ethics: should you accept a free trip? may 17, 2016 by miranda marquit leave a comment more freelancers and bloggers want to be seen as trusted resources. for many writers, that means trying to adhere to journalism ethics. but what does that mean when you're offered a free trip? in the … continue reading about journalism ethics: should you accept a free trip? using dictation software for freelance writing march 22, 2016 by miranda marquit 2 comments when you're a writer, it can be difficult to deal with an injury that affects your hand, arm, or wrist. if you're in a tough spot you can use dictation software for freelance writing. a couple weeks … continue reading about using dictation software for freelance writing 5 realities of high paying freelance gigs january 26, 2016 by miranda marquit 3 comments if you're looking in the wrong places, you'll have a hard time finding high paying freelance gigs. one of the most common questions i receive has to do with finding high paying freelance gigs. when i … continue reading about 5 realities of high paying freelance gigs just what is a high paying freelance gig, anyway? january 5, 2016 by miranda marquit 3 comments we all want to land a high paying freelance gig or two (or three). but how do you know if that gig is truly worth your time and effort? at fincon15, i offered a short presentation on how to get paid … continue reading about just what is a high paying freelance gig, anyway? go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 13 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com