wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners last updated on june 9th, 2015 by editorial staff 16k shares share tweet share pin a lot of wordcamps and wordpress meetup groups hold beginner workshops. unfortunately, most of those aren’t recorded. in this article, we will share free wordpress training videos that covers all the topics discussed in a wordpress beginner workshop. the goal of wordpress beginner workshop is to help new users get started. the topics discussed are: what is wordpress? why is wordpress free? why you should use wordpress? what’s the difference between wordpress.com vs wordpress.org? how to choose the best wordpress hosting? – we recommend either bluehost or siteground. how to install wordpress? how to use wordpress (create posts, add pages, embed images and videos, change the template, add widgets, customize menus, install plugins, and various other tips and tricks). we have covered all these topics in our free wordpress training videos (23 step by step video tutorials). you should also consider subscribing to our youtube channel where we have over 370+ free wordpress video tutorials that have been viewed by over 1.5 million people. we publish a new free video tutorial every day. additional resources: some other helpful resources that are often mentioned in the beginner workshops are: wordpress dictionary – a list of wordpress glossary terms explained for beginners. wordpress themes directory – it’s the most reliable place to find free wordpress themes. wordpress plugins directory – it’s the most reliable place to find free wordpress plugins. you can refer to our guide on how to choose the best wordpress plugin as well as look at our plugin suggestions. 20+ must have wordpress plugins for 2015 (expert pick) how to attend wordpress beginner workshop live the best way to attend a live wordpress beginner workshop in person is to find a wordcamp or a wordpress meetup group near you. wordcamp is a non-profit conference that focuses on everything wordpress. there is a wordcamp held just about every week worldwide. you can see the full schedule to see if it’s in a location near you. alternatively, you can find a local wordpress meetup group in your area. currently there are more than 490 local wordpress meetup groups in 59 countries. unlike wordcamps, wordpress meetup groups are smaller and provide greater opportunity for beginners to interact and mingle with the wordpress experts in their area. it’s important to note that not every wordcamp or wordpress meetup group hold beginner workshops. you should check the schedule to make sure it’s being offered. if it is not, then you can always contact the organizers to see if there is a possibility for them to offer a live beginner workshop. most of the time, meetup and wordcamp organizers are very receptive to suggestions. we hope that you found our wordpress training videos as a helpful replacement of wordpress beginner workshops. you should also check out our article on how to learn wordpress for free in a week or less. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 16k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 19 commentsleave a reply lilia haeselbarth says: jul 16, 2019 at 12:44 am hello i have a question. i have a drop menu on my website for example ‘mental health’ with all my articles about mental health but when you click on the menu ‘mental health’ i want all my latest post about that to appear (the ones listed in the submenu) how do i do that? thank you so much for your help reply wpbeginner support says: jul 16, 2019 at 10:54 am for what it sounds like you’re wanting, you would want to set the menu item to be a link to the category itself. we cover how to do this in our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/how-to-add-navigation-menu-in-wordpress-beginners-guide/ reply obed says: dec 10, 2017 at 1:20 pm how to set auto grammer correction reply oriloye umoru says: nov 16, 2017 at 6:24 am where can i find a niche that is profitable reply sumit says: dec 27, 2017 at 10:42 am write what you like to talk about for free with your friends. become the master of that thing. all the best. reply ajmal says: jun 12, 2017 at 1:23 am how can i show my recent articles as slide show on home page? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 12, 2017 at 10:15 pm hi ajmal, please see our guide on how to add a featured content slider in wordpress. reply ritika says: jun 4, 2017 at 11:12 am hi, i want to learn wordpress. i have the knowledge about html,html 5, css, css3 , bootstrap. please suggest me some tutorial so that i can learn easily and can make webpage through that. reply sudipta ray says: apr 12, 2017 at 10:24 pm i want to learn wordpress. but i haven’t any knowledge on http, css, java script, php. so without learning those scripting languages is wordpress possible? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 14, 2017 at 2:56 pm hey sudipta, yes. in fact, most wordpress users are non-tech folks who don’t have programming or coding skills. reply richa says: apr 11, 2017 at 7:33 am how can i change the bacjground image in wordpress? reply anup says: jul 2, 2017 at 6:40 am he richa you can change background image from the dashboard options. loginn to your dashboard then go to appearane then click on customize theme . with some themes option is available on front page and in some themes you can click on banner option there you can find background , you can change it from there reply chris baker says: aug 29, 2016 at 9:24 pm hello wp i don’t think i have ever attempted anything that is so confusing and overwhelming as trying to own a wp site. even to get your training videos is a major in cryptic mazes and frustration at a level i have not experienced for many years. i think i will prob give up with wp and find an easier option that is clear and concise and more info and less words of confusion sorry but it’s not for me reply gadgetsinspector24 says: apr 18, 2016 at 12:30 am many good articles, i learned a lot here. good work. thanks reply guru charan says: feb 22, 2016 at 11:01 pm hi there, as i am a very beginner and am using wordpress for my blog writing, how the free version of wordpress will help me? how toinstall plugins in my free plan? here’s my blog address:– kindly explain , if i need upgrade my plan to premium. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 23, 2016 at 10:01 pm please see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. reply anup says: jul 2, 2017 at 6:43 am hi guru charan , if you are creating account on wordpress.com you will not be able to use plugin in free account anymore . either you have to take premium plan or some hosting plan . to use plugins reply gulshan says: oct 26, 2015 at 5:15 am dear latice, you should not give up. if you will keep trying you will find solution. and, no doubt, wpbeginner is best place to learn high quality tips and tricks about wordpress. personally, i could learned lots of cool stuffs from here. – @thegulshankumar reply latice says: aug 9, 2015 at 12:51 am i find your site just as frustrating as trying to figure out wordpress.org. i am wondering if i made a mistake in switching over. i am unable to figure out the simplest things like how to transfer my site counter over to the .org address. i have no idea how to add widgets and other simple things. i’ve tried copying and pasting codes as tutorial say but…nothing happens. argh. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.