home work about what i do blog contact home work about what i do blog contact i’m gary, a seasoned freelance web designer from harrogate. about me the floating frog is the home of me, gary hartley, an experienced freelance web designer from harrogate, a beautiful spa town in north yorkshire, uk. traditionally trained in the fine art of graphic design and 10 successful years in two award-winning digital agencies behind me, i’m now enjoying the challenge and freedom of being a full time freelance web designer. i consider individual projects and in-house contract roles. i work with startups, internet marketers, business leaders, trusted brands and blue chip companies throughout the world. announcement: farmison & co win business website of the year theatre deals rain rescue, a responsive wordpress website project completed by gary hartley at the floating frog. rain rescue marilyn stowe, a responsive wordpress website project completed by gary hartley at the floating frog. marilyn stowe yorkshire cloud, a responsive wordpress website project completed by gary hartley at the floating frog. yorkshire cloud mobilephonedeals, a brand new mobile phones comparison website based here in the uk. mobile phone deals go car rental, a brand new car hire comparison website based here in the uk. go car rental cheap flights comparison website with opodo api integration. compare flights car insurance website with charitable spin, plus driving theory web app. monkey full rebranding and website facelift for a leading car hire affiliate engine. car hire engine previous client experience mamas & papas burger king pepsi pacha hi-tec piccadilly motors cheap flights cohen & wilks go car rental compare flights car hire engine virgin farmison&co qhotels the foundling museum apollo cinemas the foundling museum magnum boots theatre deals made4fighters speedibake whatculture ping box office howards motor group marks & spencer the round table bradford theatres ingenie city visitor all inclusive holidays welcom digital start a project with me [email protected] © 2020 the floating frog ltd. all rights reserved.