login home workout program private coaching free resources courses & training about nf latest posts log in home workout program private coaching free resources courses & training about nf latest posts create your free character rebels from around the world are creating their character, tracking quests, earning xp, and leveling up their lives. we created a completely free system to help motivate you and finally make fitness fun! create my character! join the rebellion forums and 4 week challenges i'm in get free weekly emails with tips, hacks and in-depth articles that you can apply to your life right away. sign up and we'll send you two free ebooks to get you started immediately! not sure where to start? free workouts beginner bodyweight routine advanced bodyweight routine 20 minute hotel workout angry birds workout the playground workout training resources warming up and cooling down strength training 101 how to squat, deadlift, and overhead press how to do a pushup and get your first pullup diet and nutrition the beginner's guide to the paleo diet a beginner’s guide to healthy eating how to successfully transition your diet how to start eating vegetables a step by step guide on planning your meals cooking 101: how to navigate a grocery store how to cook the easiest chicken ever how to cook paleo spaghetti 10 minutes of prep: 10 amazing meals more resources i worked out and now i'm so sore help! 5 ways to instantly appear more confident a nerds introduction to mental health why having to start over (again) is great everything you need to know about body fat percentage too lazy to work out? am i too old to get in shape? your beliefs are wrong - are you willing to change? world’s quickest advice column how to crush your inner demons with the skywalker strategy can you touch your toes? our free flexibility challenge will show you how. show me! ready to take the next step? want to know exactly what to do and when to do it? want a fun, structured environment and expert training routines? want changes that actually stick (for the long-term)? you may be ready for one of our kickass courses or live events. click the button to see what is currently available. i’m ready to ramp it up welcome to nerd fitness i'm steve kamb. i'm a nerd. i deadlift. nerd fitness helps desk jockeys, nerds, and average joes level up their lives. there’s a lot of b.s. out there about fitness. we’re working to put a stop to it. about the rebellion home academy login join the rebellion at nerd fitness! blog community free resources search archives contact © 2020 nerd fitness. all rights reserved. terms and conditions | privacy policy