the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory a supposedly feminist website subscribe latestfeaturesthe musethe slotpictorialbarf bagdirt bagvideoshop a supposedly feminist website latestfeaturesthe musethe slotpictorialbarf bagdirt bagvideoshop french montana accused of sexual assault you may also like jezebel starbucks employees got sick, but stores stayed open justice namasteyesterday 9:50pm jezebel arnold schwarzenegger wants to be in charge justice namastetoday 8:49am jezebel coronavirus partygoer tests positive for coronavirus lauren evanswednesday 8:35am popular deals on the inventory add a super versatile usb-c hub to your macbook pro for a low $26 justcbd is giving you 25% off cbd gummies so you can finally get some rest [exclusive] more from g/o media read on maybe sony will finally fulfill one of playstation's oldest promises read on here's a new covid-19 data site to obsessively refresh read on this is all going to last longer than we think read on sega's new mascot is the son of sega's old mascot subscribe to our newsletter let us help you procrastinate. sign up for our daily newsletter.subscribe hazel cills today 11:21am • filed to:french montana french montanasexual assault 11 save image: getty rapper french montana, real name karim kharbouch, was accused of sexual assault in a new lawsuit. variety reports that a woman identified as jane doe has sued kharbouch and his business partner mansour bennouna, alleging that she was given alcohol and raped while blacked out during a party at the rapper’s house two years ago. she says in 2018 she was invited to a studio where kharbouch and bennouna were both drinking and taking drugs. she was then invited to kharbouch’s home where she was given alcohol and after deciding to leave was pressured to take a shot, after which she blacked out. advertisement doe then states she remembers being in a bedroom, incapacitated, where several men came in and out. after regaining consciousness she says she realized bennouna was holding her and had pain in her pelvis, believing she had been raped. after leaving the house she went to the hospital and received a rape kit which confirmed the presence of semen, before going to the police. the lawsuit names both kharbouch and bennouna, accusing them of raping her while she was intoxicated. doe also sued kharbouch’s company coke boys records, alleging that it promotes an image of sexual misconduct and drinking. hazel cills posts email twitter pop culture reporter, jezebel share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from jezebel starbucks employees got sick, but stores stayed open hrh wfh home depot billionaire wants to peddle a bogus coronavirus treatment making the cut is a thinly disguised amazon marketing campaign share tweet