managed dns premium dns ddos protected dns geodns dns failover private dns servers services secondary dns reverse dns managed dns anycast dns enterprise dns dynamic dns domain names ssl certificates ddos protected vps company about us news contacts data centers feedback careers partnership affiliate program resellers api knowledgebase blog wiki features faq http api whmcs module payment methods 0 sign in english русский deutsch français română български español português italiano polski slovenský українська türkçe 日本語 हिंदी bahasa indonesia 简体中文 繁體中文 tiếng việt فارسی managed dns premium dns ddos protected dns geodns dns failover private dns servers services secondary dns reverse dns managed dns anycast dns enterprise dns dynamic dns domain names ssl certificates ddos protected vps company about us news contacts data centers feedback careers partnership affiliate program resellers api knowledgebase blog wiki features faq http api whmcs module payment methods faq questions: how many domains can be added with the free account? what are cloudns limitations on the number of requests? when i can upgrade my free plan to another paid one? how can i pay? what do i have to do if i want a custom plan and what would be the price? what happens to my domains after expiry of my premium account? can i use only 2 (two) dns servers from all available? what kind of information is contained in the dns statistics? why can't i see the hourly dns statistics? where can i buy a premium account? i've made a payment through paypal, but my account isn't upgraded. what is "dns branding"? what is "cloud domains"? do you offer dynamic dns and how to use it? is it possible to forward a mail to multiple recipients? some of my mails sent to gmail accounts are blocked by gmail and some are not. what should i do? do you support dnssec? what is alias record? can i buy an ssl certificate from cloudns? q: how many domains can be added with the free account? a: free accounts can add 1 (one) domain. q: what are cloudns limitations on the number of requests? a: it depends on your account subscription. please check my subscription here. q: when i can upgrade my free plan to another paid one? a: you can upgrade your plan whenever you want. you have only to choose a plan, best fitted to your needs. q: how can i pay? a: you can use a payment method which you prefer. here you can see the full list with payment methods. q: what do i have to do if i want a custom plan and what would be the price? a: if you need a custom plan you have to fill this form. оur team will create a special offer for you, tailored to your needs. q: what happens to my domains after expiry of my premium account? a: your domains will still work on the free servers only, but you won't be able to manage and have more zones than the limit of the free plan a and you won't be able to use other extended features. q: can i use only 2 (two) dns servers from all available? a: yes, you can add only those servers that you like. q: what kind of information is contained in the dns statistics? a: the dns statistics provide information on the number of requests our dns servers receive for your domain. q: why can't i see the hourly dns statistics? a: the hourly dns statistics are a premium accounts feature. q: where can i buy a premium account? a: you can buy premium account here: https://www.cloudns.net/premium/. q: i've made a payment through paypal, but my account isn't upgraded. a: if your account is not upgraded in the next 1-2 hours after the payment, please contact us at support@cloudns.net. q: what is "dns branding"? a: our dns servers are ns1.cloudns.net. ns2.*, ns3.* and etc. dns branding allows you to put our ip addresses on your domain (eg ns1.yourdomain.com, ns2.yourdomain.com etc.) and so our servers look like yours. q: what is "cloud domains"? a: with the "cloud domains" feature you can create a cloud of domains with the same records. q: do you offer dynamic dns and how to use it? a: on every a and aaaa record you will see an icon with two arrows. when you click on them you will see the dynamicurl for this record. every time you open this url the record will be changed to the ip address of the computer the url is opened from. on this window you will see options to open this url with wget, php and perl scripts automatically. q: is it possible to forward a mail to multiple recipients? a: yes, it's possible. just add two or more mail forwards for the same mail box pointed to different recipients. q: some of my mails sent to gmail accounts are blocked by gmail and some are not. what should i do? a: google recommends to create an spf/txt record pointed to "v=spf1 include:_spf.google.com ~all". q: do you support dnssec? a: yes, we support it. q: what is alias record? a: alias is a internal record type for our system, which needs to be pointed to a hostname, it works like the cname record, but can be created for the root domain as well. q: can i buy an ssl certificate from cloudns? a: yes, you can check our ssl certificates here. company about us news contacts data centers feedback careers dns services premium dns ddos protected dns geodns dns failover reverse dns secondary dns dynamic dns dnssec enum dns zones services managed dns anycast dns enterprise dns private dns servers domain names ssl certificates ddos protected vps knowledgebase blog wiki features faq http api whmcs module hostbill module domain parking payment methods partnership affiliate program resellers api registrant educational materials registrant benefits and responsibilities whois social connection terms of service | privacy policy ©2020 cloudns all prices are final and include all required taxes. no other hidden charges! online - live chat cookies help us deliver our services. by using our services, you agree to our use of cookies. learn more okay