skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: welcome latest news on design & architecture. top design & decor resources online virtual room programs modular home guide how to make a room look bigger interior designer tips importance of room color how to make home elegant on a budget small apartment design guide open floor plan layouts freshome reviews best window brands best diy home security system best security cameras best home internet best renters insurance companies best home insurance companies best heat pumps window resources marvin windows best replacement windows kitchen windows guide pella windows andersen windows double-pane window benefits flooring resources bamboo flooring hardwood vs laminate wood kid-friendly flooring guide hardwood floors top internet providers spectrum verizon at&t xfinity suddenlink optimum what is google fiber? piotr swat/shutterstock in the early 2000s, fiber-optic internet was not unheard of—verizon had first deployed its fios service in 2004… by the freshome.com team on march 13, 2020 in broadband best video doorbell cameras forgem/shutterstock best video doorbell: reviews and comparison do you have concerns about what’s happening at your doorstep when you’re not home or while you’re sleeping? video doorbell cameras can provide some peace of mind. by the freshome.com team on march 13, 2020 in security radiator heat common problems & simple fixes image: breadmaker/shutterstock rather than forcing heated air through a system of ducts like a conventional furnace, a radiator uses steam or hot water to warm your home through a series of pipes. radiators were invented in the mid-1800s and many older homes still have them. cost-effective and… by the freshome.com team on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling freelancing with a disability: designing an accessible work from home space gettyimages disability can happen to anyone at any time. sometimes people have a chronic medical condition from childhood, or one that comes on in middle- or late-age. others might have a disability due to an accident or illness. according to the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc), 61… by the freshome.com team on march 4, 2020 in inspiration aging in place: renovating with independence in mind getty images/mint images rf most americans settle in a home, envisioning a permanent life refuge. achieving this vision of aging in place, though, means preparing the home now to anticipate future needs. doing so successfully can allow older adults to remain independent, autonomous and in charge of… by the freshome.com team on march 4, 2020 in renovation nordyne heating and cooling image:breadmaker/shutterstock nordyne, also known as nortek global hvac, is a manufacturer of heating and cooling products. the company creates innovative and thoughtfully designed equipment. they also value the input that they receive from customers when considering their solutions. from comm… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling everything you need to know about adt home security systems a home security system can provide peace of mind for you and your family, but choosing one can be a confusing process. if you’re curious about the ins-and-outs of adt home security, you’re in the right place. we’re here to help you wade through the technical jargon and filter out… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in security heat pump vs air conditioner living in a state with a moderate or variable climate means having multiple options for how you want to tackle the seasonal changes in weather. most commonly, you’ll find yourself debating over heat pumps and air conditioners. air conditioners are devices that absorb warm indoor air and supply… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling heat pump troubleshooting and repair clean off your hvac system every time you see that it’s collected dirt and debris. image: shutterstock/ christian delbert a heat pump is one of the essential units in your home or office that operates throughout the year to cool or heat the space. while… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling bedroom windows buying guide bedroom windows buying guide bedroom window treatments aren’t given much thought by many homeowners or renters. you might throw something over the window to block out light if you sleep late or skip it altogether if you’re an early riser. but bedroom window valances, curtains or other window treatme… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in bedroom / windows prev 1 2 3 … 144 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss