skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: welcome latest news on design & architecture. top design & decor resources online virtual room programs modular home guide how to make a room look bigger interior designer tips importance of room color how to make home elegant on a budget small apartment design guide open floor plan layouts freshome reviews best window brands best diy home security system best security cameras best home internet best renters insurance companies best home insurance companies best heat pumps window resources marvin windows best replacement windows kitchen windows guide pella windows andersen windows double-pane window benefits flooring resources bamboo flooring hardwood vs laminate wood kid-friendly flooring guide hardwood floors top internet providers spectrum verizon at&t xfinity suddenlink optimum 7 most important interior design principles at the end of this article you’ll be able to recognize and use the basic interior design principles used by every interior designer to create a great design, and who knows maybe you’ll also save some money, or start a new career ! now let’s begin with the beginning, and… by mihai on march 4, 2020 in inspiration importance of plants in your home plants bring natural beauty to our living spaces. by creating texture and balance, a room or patio can be transformed into an environment that comforts and welcomes. but, just like miss universe, plants can do more than look pretty. they’ve been proven to reduce stress so well that… by mihai on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 5 tips for fooling the eye and making a room look bigger image: westend61/gettyimages shop these products now: tv’s – accent mirror – throw pillow – floor lamp in a small space, everything counts. this is the main idea behind this article, which will teach you… by mihai on march 10, 2020 in inspiration marrakesh bathroom design dare to be different. this is the message behind these bathroom products. these beautiful decorated faucets and lavatory basins with stunning patterns, colors and textures, are decorated with a special technique that creates raised ruby-like flowers and 24k gold tendrils make me feel like a king. na… by mihai on march 4, 2020 in bathroom someone that holds your glass wine when people are sad, or depressed they drink something to forget that feeling. we all know that after a few glasses of alcohol our mood change drastically. these handcrafted glass figurines gently hug your champagne or wine, and add an extra-festive touch with their bright colors and fluid legs… by mihai on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 10 things you should know before buying an apartment after spending some time in renting business you’ll realise that you should stop throwing away money on rent month after month, and buy a house or an apartment. if you are going to buy your first apartment ever, then in this article will show you a checklist of… by mihai on march 4, 2020 in moving things you should know before buying a new bed did you know that most of us spend one-third of our lives in bed, everyday we go for sleep for 8 hours. we do spend a lot of time in bed and the bed we spend it in as a lot to do with how comfortable we are… by mihai on march 4, 2020 in bedroom prev 1 … 143 144 popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss