skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: welcome latest news on design & architecture. top design & decor resources online virtual room programs modular home guide how to make a room look bigger interior designer tips importance of room color how to make home elegant on a budget small apartment design guide open floor plan layouts freshome reviews best window brands best diy home security system best security cameras best home internet best renters insurance companies best home insurance companies best heat pumps window resources marvin windows best replacement windows kitchen windows guide pella windows andersen windows double-pane window benefits flooring resources bamboo flooring hardwood vs laminate wood kid-friendly flooring guide hardwood floors top internet providers spectrum verizon at&t xfinity suddenlink optimum 10 inspiring work-from-home office setups need a little inspiration for your work from home setup? check out these 10 home office ideas from our freshome coworkers. by danika miller on march 27, 2020 in inspiration don’t stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus instead of panicking or stockpiling supplies, here's everything you need to buy during the coronavirus shelter-in-place period. by alex gailey on march 24, 2020 in kitchen 8 expert tips on organizing your home while sheltering in place we spoke with professional organizers about keeping your home organized while quarantined for coronavirus. by danika miller on march 26, 2020 in inspiration best high-speed internet providers of 2020 high-speed internet isn’t a necessity for everybody, and sometimes high-speeds just aren’t available in certain areas. many people can get by with satellite or mobile hotspots for basic web browsing, but for those of you who need it, fiber and cable internet provide more reliable connections, downlo… by freshome team on march 22, 2020 in broadband how much equity is in your home? ittigallery/shutterstock understanding home equity when you take the current market value of your home that you receive after an appraisal and subtract it from the amount you currently owe on your mortgage, that’s your … by the freshome.com team on march 22, 2020 in home building how to keep your home clean during a pandemic we spoke with an infectious diseases expert about what to disinfect and why. by danika miller on march 23, 2020 in inspiration what is home equity and how does it work? ittigallery/shutterstock what is equity? you’ll often hear the term equity when it comes to homeownership, but you may not even… by the freshome.com team on march 19, 2020 in home building wow! internet plans bbernard/shutterstock about wow! wow! (also known as wide open west) offers cable, fiber and dsl internet, phone and television services for customers in nine states providing services to over 7 million people. you can find wow! internet in metropolitan areas like montgomery, al, chicago, il, detro… by freshome team on march 13, 2020 in broadband 2020 new furnace replacement and installation welcomia/shutterstock furnace buying guide furnaces play an essential role in keeping your home warm when the weather outside turns cold. but in order to save money on repairs and energy bills, it’s important to replace your furnace at the right time. today’s… by the freshome.com team on march 13, 2020 in heating and cooling furnace repair: common problems and how to fix them joyseulay/shutterstock even with the right unit and proper installation, there’s always the chance that your furnace will malfunction. while some problems are caused by normal wear and tear, most can be traced to inconsistent maintenance. furnace issues can wreak havoc in your… by the freshome.com team on march 13, 2020 in heating and cooling 1 2 … 144 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss