menu lorraine reguly search search about lorraine editing services appearances my books + media kit write/advertise contact blog skip to content about lorraine editing services appearances my books + media kit write/advertise contact blog from nope to hope: book and e-book release! lorraine reguly august 20, 2017 december 20, 2018 4 comments on from nope to hope: book and e-book release! from nope to hope is available everywhere now! i finally did it! i released my second book, from nope to hope! it was officially released in april 2017, and made available in print on may 10th, 2017. (my first book, risky issues, was released in 2014.) in this article (blog post), i will tell you -who i am -why you should listen to me -all about my book -where you can buy it -where you can get 2 free chapters -my mission who am i? hi. my name is lorraine. and i am someone who has suffered from depression and suicidal thoughts for most of my life. i am someone who has suffered from depression and suicidal thoughts for most of my life. you can read about my life journey (what i’ve been through, where i used to be, and where i am now). in fact, please do, you’ll be happy you did. if you also suffer from such things, know that i’ve been where you are. i’ve felt your hopelessness and despair. you don’t know what to do. you don’t know who to turn to. you are at your wits’ end. these feelings are horrible. they consume you. they take over your thoughts and influence your actions. you feel like you have no control. you feel like there’s no hope. you think the only solution is to end it all, eliminating all your problems forever. i get it. i know exactly how you feel… and it’s awful to feel this way! i felt this way for years. yes, years. i even tried to kill myself once. (read my true story about my suicide attempt.) the good news is that i survived. i’ve since learned different coping strategies and ways to handle my problems. even more good news is this: you, too, have the ability within yourself to change yourself and your situation! i am not a magician, and the answers i have for you will sometimes require you to put forth some effort, but if you trust me and listen to me, i can assure you that your suicidal thoughts will dissipate, your mindset will change, your outlook will be healthier, your future will be brighter, and you will be happier. during this process, i will be there for you. i will help you through it all. i will help you to discover new ways of coping with your problems. i will teach you techniques you can use in your daily life to improve it. i will share strategies you can employ to make yourself feel better. not only will i offer you hope, but i will outline the steps you can take in order to become happier, healthier, and more successful in life! i’m also going to share some of my personal experiences with you throughout this book. you might not have the exact same problems as i did (and still have, on occasion), but you will be able to compare your life against mine. you will be able to change your thoughts. you will be able to improve your situation. you will become happier with your life. the structure of from nope to hope throughout this book, i am going to be sharing some of my personal experiences with you. i’m also going to give you specific tasks to do. these are the actions you will need to perform to see the results you want. they are found at the end of each chapter and are called “thought and action exercises.” they are not hard. most of them don’t take a lot of time either. they are designed to be extremely useful to you, too. keep an open mind and give them a try, when you are instructed to. you have nothing to lose, and everything to gain. i promise you, if you listen to me, it will be worth it! why you should listen to me i am honest. i am educated. i have endured a lot of pain during my life. i have faced many obstacles. i was raped. i quit school four times. i got involved in prostitution. i became a single mother at the age of 18. i raised my son by myself. i became addicted to drugs. i also had a gambling addiction. i know what it’s like to have no motivation or desire to live. i have suffered from depression and an extremely negative self-image. i have been overweight my whole life. i also lost contact with my son for three years. fortunately, we reunited! but, despite all these obstacles, i was still able to overcome them and move on. why? i sought counseling. i learned how to cope with all my problems. i found hope. fortunately for me, i have an above-average iq, and i’m highly skilled in many areas. i attended university for 5 years and obtained two degrees. i became a math and english teacher. i am still a certified teacher, although i quit teaching high school students. i teach others online now. i also started my own freelancing business and became an author. this is my second published book, and i have plans to write more. i also help others become authors! i am currently living life on my own terms, under my own rules and flexible schedule, and i am happier – and freer – than i have ever been. i’m not going to lie to you, though. i still have bad days. i still get depressed on occasion. like i said, i’m an honest person. i’m human, after all, and life is not always easy, regardless of where you live, what you do, or how much money you have. in fact, writing this book was one of the hardest things i have done. i’m a perfectionist, and i wanted it to be the best resource in the world for people like you, who are plagued with suicidal thoughts, perhaps suffering from depression, and are basically so unhappy that death seems like the only solution. i wanted to make sure it helped you in many ways. i wanted it to cover every possible reason for why you would want to end your life, and then offer solutions to you for each of these reasons. but i realized that this would be an impossible task because if you ask 1000 different people you will get 1000 different answers for why they would want to do this. however, the commonality would be that they all simply want to end their pain. so, instead, what i decided to do is create this book around the strategies that have helped me change my life. these are the same strategies that others have used to change theirs, to end their pain, and move on. not only will i provide you with information, i will also teach you these strategies and guide you so that you can implement them in your life. once you start implementing them, you will begin to see results. your life will become one that is more positive, and hopefully, one that you want to live. this is a picture of me, taken in the summer of 2017. don’t i look happy? 😉 book blurb for from nope to hope deciding what to do when you are suicidal is tough. you don’t know what to do. you don’t know who to turn to. you just want your pain to end. you don’t necessarily want to die; you want to live a better, happier life… one worth living! from nope to hope reveals easy-to-accomplish, actionable strategies for changing negative thoughts into positive ones and for learning to live a happier life. some of these include using positive affirmations, visualization, improving your self-image, and setting goals that you can actually accomplish. these strategies (and other techniques) worked for me! i went from a suicidal mess to… a success! in this book, i share all of these with you so that you can move forward with your life and stop feeling horrible. i also provide you with thought and action exercises to do, at the end of each chapter. you can change your life into one you actually want to live! i know, because i did it. you can, too! put my methods to work for you and let me help you transform your life! the contents of from nope to hope the table of contents of from nope to hope: dedication and a note from the author (+ a personal poem) quotes from people i know (and have helped or influenced) introduction, book structure, and why you should listen to me chapter 1: why do you want to kill yourself? chapter 2: my story chapter 3: raj’s story chapter 4: farhan’s story chapter 5: helen’s story chapter 6: temporary and long-term coping strategies to use chapter 7: identify your emotions and release negativity from your life chapter 8: change your mindset by using positive affirmations chapter 9: use meditation, the law of attraction, and visualization chapter 10: form healthy habits one step at a time chapter 11: improve your self-image chapter 12: alternative treatments and counselling chapter 13: acceptance, spirituality, and your will to change chapter 14: create your path to a happier life chapter 15: put your plan into action by setting and attaining goals chapter 16: assess your growth chapter 17: conquer procrastination chapter 18: how to make your happiness last chapter 19: what to do if your suicidal thoughts return chapter 20: the after-effects of suicide: dk’s story chapter 21: additional resources and available help acknowledgments about the author where you can buy from nope to hope from nope to hope is now available in several different formats, from several different places, for several different prices! you can get from nope to hope on amazon. india link – https://www.amazon.in/dp/b072l6846m uk link – https://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/b072l6846m usa link – https://www.amazon.com/dp/b072l6846m au link – https://www.amazon.com.au/dp/b072l6846m *** you can also order printed copies amazon. you can download the first 15% of the book for free from smashwords. you can also pick your format there, too (epub, mobi, etc.). buy it on sale the best purchase deal, however, is to buy it via my website from my business site using this link! this version is better than any of the others because it gives you a pdf you can actually write/type in! (i paid a special designer $100 to make this happen!) the content of the book is the same regardless of where you buy it. the only difference between the various formats is that you can type in the version offered at my site, and you can write with a pen in the printed version. get free chapters! you can get chapter 8: change your mindset by using positive affirmations and chapter 9: use meditation, the law of attraction, and visualization for free on wording well (as blog posts). i want to help you my mission is simple: i want to help others deal with their emotional pain and move on to live happier lives. that is why i wrote from nope to hope: how i overcame my suicidal thoughts (and how you can too). i know what it’s like to be depressed and unhappy. i’ve been there more times than i can count. i still have some rough days, but my life now is much better. i’m happy. i’m positive. i feel good most of the time! i was even able to start a business 3 years ago. now i spend my time helping others in various ways. feel free to check out the 4 services wording well offers. if you have any questions at all, about anything, please ask me. i’m here to help you. even though we don’t know each other, i care about you. and i don’t want to see you suffer any longer! ~lorraine share this: share click to print (opens in new window) click to share on tumblr (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) last updated : thursday, december 20, 2018 book promotions book promotions, from nope to hope, self-help, true story about lorraine reguly lorraine reguly, ba/bed, is an author and an english teacher-turned-freelancer for hire who offers 4 different services on wording well: writing (including blogging and ghostwriting); editing; and mentoring. she also helps others become published authors! check out her services and see what she can do for you to help you! view all posts by lorraine reguly → post navigation advice for julian (in the form of a poem) my life journey (#inspirational #poetry + #motivational #poem) 4 thoughts on “from nope to hope: book and e-book release!” pingback: how being raped led this woman to success: the story of lorraine reguly lorraine reguly post authorjanuary 18, 2018 at 3:13 pm thank you for sharing my story! i hope it helps others… reply ↓ dr. anand bhardwaj may 12, 2018 at 3:12 am nice book and e-book release …. its very beautiful and very useful for us reply ↓ lorraine reguly post authormay 16, 2018 at 12:01 pm thank you! reply ↓ leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. you must enable javascript to be able to comment current ye@r * leave this field empty search for: search categories categories select category authorship blogging book promotions book reviews creating a new book food or recipes inspiration and motivation interview podcast poetry true story uncategorized writing writing and publishing click to visit: my brandyourself profile from nope to hope click here for information about this life-changing book risky issues is on amazon! buy your copy of risky issues today! visit my amazon author central page visit my author central page show your appreciation! get your free gift right here! copyright 2014-present by lorraine reguly. all rights reserved. privacy policy and affiliate disclosure i have a free gift for you: 10 stimulating story starts + a bonus short story! want it? if so, fill out the form below and it's yours. it'll ignite your creative spark and provide you with some entertainment, too! by subscribing to my list, you agree to allow me to email me your free e-book as well as join my email subscriber list. you are free to unsubscribe at any time. you might also want to read my privacy policy.