check out the product innovation framework! services work blog team contact frontend developer we’re looking for a full-time frontend developer to aid our team in producing fantastic web experiences at our offices in central london. your cv says… skills strong grasp and passion for front-end development. knowledge of content management systems such as wordpress. has touched on some php or other server-side language. ambition maintain a working knowledge of new web technologies. interested in gaining more experience in backend development. experience at least 2 years’ experience in a professional development environment. have planned and implemented entire projects from design to launch. worked on collaborative projects with designers, developers and clients. what you’d be doing every member of the team has a keen interest in what makes for a compelling user experience, and a successful online business. you’ll share this passion for products and the web, and want to contribute to the team’s ideas regardless of which project you’re working on. implementing designs and interactions working closely with the design team you’ll help turn deliverables into functioning responsive templates using html, scss and javascript. we have been developing our best practices over time and look for you to join us in progressing and following them in all of your work. front-end fanatic with every day introducing a new standard, framework and build tool you are keen to keep yourself informed and make good choices on what to use and when. you are performance and accessibility minded and always focus on the user when making decisions. creativity in the browser somewhere between design and front-end is where you add your magic. there are always opportunities for you to introduce finishing touches to an interface – be it animations, clever interactions or svg wizardry. wordpress our chosen tool for content-driven projects is wordpress, you will be supported by the backend developers throughout these projects but an understanding of this cms and php would be beneficial. javascript you’re interested in venturing deeper into the world of javascript than jquery and may have already done so. about lighthouse since being set up 10 years ago by a designer and a developer lighthouse has grown into a highly adaptable and flexible team of talented people. we’re not huge but have a big mix of skills allowing us to take projects from concept through to design and development starting out as a web design and development studio we’ve changed a little over the years. while we still work with clients to create awesome websites a large part of our business is now spent working with startups and enterprise clients to bring new digital products to market. perks bonus scheme and pension plan free weekly company lunch on fridays weekly office yoga sessions company creative outings and hack days training and events budgets booze (and non-booze) in the drinks fridge for all interested? submit your application please include for us: your cv a little bit about yourself something you’ve built recently that you’re proud of (a codepen, full site, github repo…) get in touch we love a good chat about all things ux/ui, product and innovation. call, email, come round for a coffee, or just stalk us on social media. let's talk! 020 2993 2905 hello@wearelighthouse.com unit 29, finsbury business centre, 40 bowling green lane, london ec1r 0ne jobs privacy policy newsletter © 2020 lighthouse london studio ltd