hit enter to search or esc to close home social media education blogging photography social media writing blogging resources get connected guest post for us about tiffany blog blog tipsmake money ftc guidelines for sponsored blog content and social shares made simple by stacy molter oct 13, 2014 february 11th, 2016 10 comments pinterest199 facebook18 twitter this post may contain affiliate links which may give us a commission at no additional cost to you. as an amazon associate we earn from qualifying purchases. whether you are new to blogging or a seasoned veteran, you need to understand the ftc guidelines for bloggers and influencers on how to properly disclose sponsored content for advertisers on your blog and social media channels. understanding the ftc guidelines for bloggers if you’re new to blogging, the ftc guidelines for bloggers may seem a bit overwhelming, but trust me they’re not. they simply state that you must disclose all relationships with brands, in a clear and conspicuous manner. also, both you and the sponsor have an obligation to be accurate in your claims about a product. no lying! sponsored posts and product reviews when writing sponsored posts and product reviews, you need to let your readers know immediately they are reading sponsored content. while the disclosure does not need to be the first sentence of your post, the disclosure must come before any sponsored links. it can be brief like the below example: this is a sponsored post written by me on behalf of (company name). here’s another example to consider: i am so thrilled to have this opportunity to receive a complimentary fastaction™ fold click connect™ jogger from graco. in both examples, you are identifying to your readers that you have been compensated for this post. in the second one, you are working it into the post in a more natural way, while still meeting the guideline. if the sponsored post requires a longer, more descriptive disclosure, you can add this to the bottom of your post. be sure to disclose any affiliate links you have at the top of the post, as well. social media when you send a tweet, post to facebook, upload an image to instagram, pin an image to pinterest, or update any other social media channel that is promoting (amplifying) a sponsored post or sponsored content, you need to once again let your readers know they are reading sponsored content. to let readers know the are reading sponsored content on a social media channel, simply add the word ad (or #ad) before any url links. this disclosure must be in every social media amplification and it needs to be in a prominent place. this is true for any social media amplification for which you are being paid. you must make sure the disclosure stands out, and must be placed before any links. here are examples of what tweets that are compliant with the new guidelines look like: #ad loved meeting my #gracojogger buddies today and trying out our new strollers! have u seen how pretty they are? http://bit.ly/ujomal come see how much my baby jane loves her new #gracojogger today on my blog. she’s smiling from ear to ear! (#ad) http://bit.ly/ujomal as always, we encourage you to take some time to read through the ftc guidelines for yourself! you can check out a copy here: ftc guidelines. keep reading looking for more information about the business of blogging? here are a few posts you’ll find helpful: steps for writing an awesome sponsored post creating and selling printables on your blog 7 must haves to be a pr-friendly site about the author latest posts about stacy molter stacy is a mom blogger who shares her experiences raising multiples and parenting a child with multiple food allergies. somewhere between wrangling her four children, her dog and her husband, she still finds the much-needed girl time for a glass of wine while crafting. if she sounds like your standard mom blogger think again: this woman has some serious guts! she’s squared up with a mountain lion while hiking in the tahoe national forest and she’s also picked up a baby rattlesnake and lived to tell the tale. get to know the chuck norris of parenting bloggers. low light photography tips for the holidays - nov 30, 2015 getting to know your dslr camera - oct 22, 2015 when should i use a nofollow link? - oct 27, 2014 ftc guidelines for sponsored blog content and social shares made simple - oct 13, 2014 how to schedule posts with hootsuite - sep 17, 2014 5 tips to speed up blog page load time - may 8, 2014 8 knock em dead content marketing tips for your blog - mar 20, 2014 pinterest199 facebook18 twitter looking for something? search previous postlet's get social with our blogtober challenge next postmaison des jeunes recommended for you blog tips step by step plan to drive traffic to your new blog crystal greenmay 28, 2019 blog tips the beginner’s guide to hiring and managing a virtual assistant kelly cannonmay 15, 2019 blog tips how to start a blog in 20 minutes katapr 29, 2019 10 comments bean bytes 112 says: oct 19, 2014 at 9:00 pm […] & tricks: ftc guidelines for sponsored content & social shares made simple via the sits girls printable moving checklist via the fit cookie top 3 meditation apps you need to […] jen @ pretty little grub says: oct 19, 2014 at 2:04 pm thanks for the information. if you received a product for free but no other compensation do you need to put ad in your social media posts? emma says: oct 24, 2014 at 3:55 pm i don’t know for sure, but i thought you needed to. i have just to be on the safe side 🙂 . link love 10/19 . - . running with spoons . says: oct 19, 2014 at 4:32 am […] ftc guidelines for bloggers via the sits girls. an easy to understand explanation of how to properly disclose sponsored posts. […] now read this… 10/18/14 | tales of a {soon-to-be} fit kitty mama says: oct 18, 2014 at 7:22 pm […] ftc rules and guidelines for sponsored blog content and social shares made simple from sits […] susan says: oct 17, 2014 at 11:10 am the ftc will probably change those guidelines soon, as they always do. but in either case, thank you for sharing. clotilde/craftybegonia says: oct 14, 2014 at 5:09 pm thank for the information, very useful! marie@the interior frugalista says: oct 14, 2014 at 9:24 am thanks for the ftc tips, especially the social media one. i wasn’t clear how to apply the disclosure on pinterest, etc. very helpful! vidya sudarsan says: oct 13, 2014 at 8:16 pm always a good idea to mention this on the post.. especially if you are benefiting in any ways. jessica says: oct 13, 2014 at 9:21 am good to know. thanks for sharing. copyright © 2019 • our story - privacy policy - website terms & conditions home social media education blogging photography social media writing blogging resources get connected guest post for us about tiffany blog free printables for hot chocolate bar and winter fun!. your name: your email: ____ _____________ ____ get your free printable: