close mobile menu search this website home start here about resources podcast blog health beauty mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel reviews recipes beef recipes breakfast recipes condiment recipes dessert recipes drink recipes pork recipes poultry recipes salad recipes seafood recipes side dish recipes snack recipes soup & stew recipes newsletter shop menu skip to right header navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer simple answers for healthier families about start here resources podcast blog beauty health mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel recipes reviews shop search you are here: home » full disclaimer full disclaimer please read the following disclaimer carefully before using this website. see also the official wellness mama® terms of service, privacy policy, and affiliate disclosure. this disclaimer governs your use of wellnessmama.com. by using this website, you accept this disclaimer in full. if you disagree with any part of this disclaimer, do not use wellnessmama.com or any affiliated websites, properties, or companies. we reserve the right to modify these terms at any time. you should therefore check back periodically for changes. by using this website after we post any changes, you agree to accept those changes, whether or not you have reviewed them. all information and resources found on wellnessmama.com are based on the opinions of the author unless otherwise noted. all information is intended to motivate readers to make their own nutrition and health decisions after consulting with their health care provider. i am not a doctor, lawyer, psychiatrist, therapist, or your mother, and i don’t play one on the internet. the author of this site encourages you to consult a doctor before making any health changes, especially any changes related to a specific diagnosis or condition. no information on this site should be relied upon to determine diet, make a medical diagnosis, or determine treatment for a medical condition. the information on this website is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice. no information on this site should be used to diagnose, treat, prevent or cure any disease or condition. full disclaimer by reading this website, you acknowledge that you are responsible for your own health decisions. do not take anything from any website, including this one, and try it without proper research and medical supervision. any statements or claims about the possible health benefits conferred by any foods or supplements have not been evaluated by the food & drug administration (fda) and are not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent or cure any disease. wellnessmama.com reserves the right to remove, edit, move or close any content item for any reason, including, but not limited to, comments that are in violation of the laws and regulations formed pursuant to the federal food, drug and cosmetic act. none of the posts and articles on wellnessmama.com may be re-printed without express written permission of the author. wellness mama will respond to written requests to re-print parts of posts and excerpts/quotes (10% or less) may be reprinted with attribution as long as all links are left intact. ftc disclosure the ftc requires bloggers to disclose whenever there is a financial interest or bias related to a recommendation or whenever a blogger’s opinion may be financially motivated in any way. more importantly, i have a desire to always be transparent and honest with readers and to disclose how i make money from this website. investing i am an advisor/investor to thrivemarket.com and may make money at some point in the future if thrive market does well financially. i agreed to be an advisor to help create a budget-friendly online resource for healthy food (think costco + whole foods + amazon), and while my interest was not just financially motivated, i may one day make money from this advisor/investor relationship. since i am an advisor, i was able to negotiate a deal for my readers and you can get a coconut oil gift box at no cost (just $1.95 shipping) if you want to try out thrive. find out more here. affiliate links the ftc also requires disclosure about any affiliate links. i specifically note at the top of a post when affiliate links are present, but for disclosure purposes, assume that any link you click on is an affiliate link. this means that i will earn a small commission from amazon or other company if you decide to purchase the product linked to. this means that if you order natural toothpaste or a banana slicer from a link on wellnessmama.com (like those) i earn a small commission (as much as a whopping $1.65 or $0.32, respectively), and these small commissions eventually add up to help me do things like pay for hosting and feed my kids. for this reason, i’m very grateful when you use a link (like this one to amazon) because it helps me keep wellnessmama.com up and running and avoid an army of tiny children (otherwise known as pajama terrorists) complaining of hunger. many of the links on wellness mama are purely for informational purposes, but i do earn a small commission on many such links including links to books, products and services so please assume for any given link, i may earn a commission of some kind if you purchase a product. please view my detailed affiliate disclosure by clicking here. advertising i evaluate potential advertising partners on a case by case basis, whose products, mission, and values align with mine. i do not work with or allow the following: paid or sponsored blog posts free products for review paid links or link exchanges brand ambassadorships ad networks or other non-curated advertisements third party promotional companies or services network marketing, multi-level marketing, or other pyramid structures unsolicited joint venture promotions i do not write paid posts. i do not accept free products for review. my thoughts and opinions are my own and not of those of any sponsor or advertiser. if i link to a product on this website, it is because i have purchased it myself, use it for my family, and think it is high-quality. comment policy i make a sincere effort to be respectful, kind and transparent on wellnessmama.com and ask the same respect from you. for this reason, rude, offensive, or harmful comments will not be tolerated. you are welcome to disagree, just do it nicely. read my full comment policy by clicking here. copyright and rights reserved all of the information on this website, including images, text, audio, video, and other forms of content (including the information on this disclosure page) is copyright © wellnessmama.com 2006-2019 and may not be downloaded, reproduced, republished or otherwise copied without express written permission of the author and of wellnessmama.com. the website and all of its content and the selection and arrangement thereof, is protected as a compilation owned by wellness mama® and wellnessmama.com under the copyright laws of the united states and other countries. wellness mama® may change the website or delete any content or features or services at any time, in any way, for any or no reason. wellness mama® reserves all rights not expressly granted in and to the website and the content. as always, thank you for reading wellnessmama.com and being part of the amazing community here! footer sitemap start here comment policy affiliate disclosure newsletter privacy policy terms of service full disclaimer promo guidelines contact site footer the information on this website has not been evaluated by the fda and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease. by accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the terms of service, full disclaimer, privacy policy, affiliate disclosure, and comment policy. content may not be reproduced in any form. ads provided by cafemedia family & parenting network. displayed ads do not constitute endorsement or recommendation by wellness mama. copyright © 2006–2020 wellness mama® · all rights reserved · sitemap