skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search full screen home » full screen 34 consulting wordpress themes to help your consulting business grow online 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 35 comments a huge list of the most modern and professional consulting wordpress themes to supercharge your business today. how to make a great consulting website with wordpress? first, you need a good hosting service and a cms. for thousands of companies… read more→ 31 awesome technology news magazine wordpress themes 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 43 comments a comprehensive list of the best tech news wordpress themes for magazine style websites. amazingly, you don’t need to be an experienced web developer to run an exemplary site. the only things required by a perfect tech news site are… read more→ awesome responsive wordpress themes for architects, landscape architects and architectural firms 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars theme collections 19 comments a comprehensive collection of the best architecture wordpress themes for architect corporate, portfolio and personal websites and blogs. architecture has always been a niche service due to its specification and high cost. in this business, you can get only a… read more→ 48 best wordpress restaurant themes to create a responsive restaurant website 2020 march 24, 2020 aigars theme collections 20 comments looking for the best wordpress restaurant theme for a fine dining place, pizzeria or cafeteria? you have landed in the right place! here you will find the best wordpress themes with a restaurant menu, table reservation, contact information, online booking… read more→ 21 amazing crossfit wordpress themes for communities, gyms and fitness clubs 2020 february 29, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 5 comments without a doubt, the technological revolution is the crown jewel of human achievement. we have earned the ability to communicate instantly, and project images and sounds at the speed of light. but these almost godlike abilities come at a certain… read more→ 18 best ajax powered wordpress creative portfolio themes 2020 february 20, 2020 aigars theme collections 3 comments today, being a professional is more than owning a suit and a set of business cards. potential clients also need proof that you are up to date with the latest technology trends, which is a must if your line of… read more→ 20 best wordpress themes for artists such as musicians, singers, painters and other creatives – 2020 february 18, 2020 aigars theme collections 18 comments are you an artist looking to showcase your work online? these wordpress themes for artists are exactly what you need to build a website today. what makes art great? why is it important and how can it flourish? these are… read more→ 28 beautiful & responsive wordpress wedding themes 2020 january 18, 2020 aigars theme collections 26 comments a comprehensive list of the best wordpress wedding themes in 2020 and beyond. these themes have everything to make a memorable wedding website to show to your friends and family. your wedding is one of the most important milestones in… read more→ 37 beautiful & responsive free photography wordpress themes for photographers and photo bloggers 2020 january 17, 2020 aigars free themes, photography, theme collections 33 comments today we'll look into free photography wordpress themes for professional and hobby photographers. interest in photography, both as a hobby and profession, has boomed in the last 10 years. one of the reasons why people are eager to take photographs… read more→ 30+ awesome wordpress portfolio themes to showcase your work with style 2020 january 15, 2020 aigars photography, portfolio, theme collections 2 comments looking for a wordpress theme to showcase your portfolio online? that's exactly what we'll look into today! if you want to instantly direct the attention of your website visitors to your product or works, you should opt for a portfolio… read more→ 58 creative wordpress themes for agency, portfolio, blog & other creative websites – 2020 january 15, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 43 comments looking for a creative wordpress theme to build a modern and unique website? this list will provide exactly what you need to create a truly creative website using wordpress! how to make a creative diy website on a budget without… read more→ 48 best photography wordpress themes for professional and hobby photographers 2020 january 14, 2020 aigars photography, portfolio, theme collections 114 comments looking for the best wordpress photography themes? you are in the right place! we have selected the best photography themes for wedding photographers, nature photographers, bloggers and anyone else looking to showcase their images. as of today, wordpress powers 35%… read more→ 43 most popular multipurpose wordpress themes that can handle everything for you 2020 january 10, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 43 comments the concept behind the creation of most multipurpose wordpress themes is to produce a single website template that would suit any type of brand, company, organization or causes. the multipurpose website comes with all the basic features that any website… read more→ 30+ best fullscreen wordpress themes for blog, corporate, portfolio and photography websites 2020 january 7, 2020 aigars theme collections 39 comments a hand-picked list of the top fullscreen wordpress themes designed and developed for 2020. all these themes are premium with outstanding quality, support, and documentation. read more→ 31 best responsive & free fullscreen wordpress themes 2019 may 14, 2019 aigars free themes, photography 31 comments fullscreen wordpress theme is the new trend in creating beautiful and eye-catching portfolios, blogs and websites. these themes became all the rage for many artists, developers and website owners because it looks sleek, stylish and very easy to customize. providing… read more→ 20 most stunning full-screen wordpress themes may 4, 2019 julia starlark theme collections 0 comments in this collection, we have gathered the most stunning full-screen wordpress themes that would help different niche representatives to improve the appearance and functional capacity of a website. among these themes, you will find examples that support parallax effect backgrounds,… read more→ disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×