skip to content podcast buy now achieve more while doing less the full focus planner allows you to focus on the work that matters so you can achieve your goals. buy now banish distractions tame your to-do list achieve big goals win the day over your to-do list you sink into bed exhausted, but nothing feels done. the daily whirlwind of activities swept you away while your greatest priorities took a back seat. we believe neverending to-do lists are the source of overwhelm and disappointment in life. you don’t have to let your to-do list call the shots. there’s a better way. buy now watch video 4.75 (1911+ reviews) a planner to help you focus the full focus planner ends the tyranny of the never-ending to-do list by helping you focus on what matters most. clear goals design meaningful goals and use the planner’s prioritization framework to create tasks that move you closer to achievement. less overwhelm traditional planners have you create long to-do lists that feel impossible to achieve. the full focus planner helps you narrow your list for less overwhelm and more achievement. guaranteed progress follow the planner’s planning and prioritization system to guarantee progress on your goals, even when life gets busy. buy now see the system for success set powerful goals with the goal detail pages so you can start the process for achieving them. keep your big commitments for this quarter in birds-eye view so they never creep up on you. plan for big events months in advance so you can keep track of your goal achievement for the upcoming quarters as well. design your picture-perfect week so each week is never a surprise. organize your day with the daily big 3 planning framework and task list so you structure your day to focus on priorities. optimize your daily performance with routine rituals to keep you on track. get a glimpse of the week ahead so you can achieve clarity and confidence over what your priorities should be for the upcoming week. process your last quarter, extract learning lessons, and start planning your achievement for the next quarter. previous next annual goals monthly calendar rolling quarters ideal week daily pages rituals weekly preview quarterly preview step 1: plan your year step 2: design your days step 3: achieve your goals buy now watch video over 100,000 successful achievers “i've been using the full focus planner and have my team leaders using it as well. i'm a focused and productive person, but this has taken it to a whole new level!” dr. josh axe co-founder of ancient nutrition & founder of draxe.com “when i really committed to using the full focus planner, my life changed… my business grew by 85%. i had the best quarter of my life.” jeff author / business owner “using it consistently over time, i can see myself actually achieving all of my goals.” mariel founder / managing director of accounting “the old me would question whether not i was doing well. now i know i’m winning.” christian community organizer “it just floors me to think about how far i’ve come in such a short amount of time with the full focus planner.” jessica co-owner / operations director “the sky really is the limit because it’s given us a blueprint of what to do, what to focus on, and what not to do.” craig founder / ceo your investment for success click on the planner images to look inside. classic 6 ¼” x 9 ¼” dimensions oatmeal, gray, or navy features annual goal templates and daily productivity tools follows a 90-day achievement cycle lay-flat binding annual subscription: $159.96 $125 save $35 buy annual single planner: $39.99 buy single executive 6 ¼” x 9 ¼” dimensions black european bonded leather features annual goal templates and daily productivity tools follows a 90-day achievement cycle lay-flat binding annual subscription: $199.96 $160 save $40 buy annual single planner: $49.99 buy single bold by megan hyatt miller 6 ¼” x 9 ¼” dimensions european bonded leather olive, eggplant, french blue, or poppy color options updated interior design & layout features annual goal templates and daily productivity tools follows a 90-day achievement cycle lay-flat binding annual subscription: $199.96 $160 save $40 buy annual single planner: $49.99 buy single custom orders order customized planners for your entire team. learn more for all international orders (including guam, us virgin islands, and us military bases overseas) click here domestic shipping (within the 48 contiguous united states) is a flat rate of $6.99. international shipping is calculated at checkout. annual subscription: domestic shipping (within the 48 contiguous united states) is a fee of $5.49 per shipping. this shipping charge will happen automatically each time your new planner ships each quarter. the brains behind the full focus planner new york times bestselling author, michael hyatt, and his daughter, megan hyatt miller, had one question on their mind: how could they help people win at work and succeed at life? michael understood the struggles of high-achievers with too much on their plate. he went through the same troubles when he was the ceo of a 250-million dollar corporation. and megan hyatt miller was no stranger to their troubles either. as the chief operating officer of a leadership development company, and the mother to a family of seven, she had a full plate as well. but both michael and megan discovered an achievement system that works. they used this system to grow their company to be an inc. 5000 company three years in a row, all without sacrificing their family. to help people win at work and succeed at life, they took their achievement framework and turned it into the full focus planner. get the best resources for your full focus planner view tutorials listen to the podcast frequently asked questions view faqs win your days again you don’t have to feel like you’re losing at work and life. the full focus planner will help you protect your priorities and make time for what matters most. buy today ©2020 michael hyatt and company, llc privacy | terms podcast store printables journal notebook