menu investors agents features webinar blog resources about sign in pricing full stack developer – hiring now! remote • full time • wordpress • react • php carrot is looking to hire a full-time full stack web developer to help us work on our product. we provide websites and online marketing tools for real estate investors and agents on our react, rails, and wordpress based app. we’re looking for a full stack developer to join our team and create new features, maintain and improve our react web app, maintain and create new wordpress plugins. carrot is oregon based, but you’ll be joining our fully remote development team. carrot is one of the most popular options for real estate professionals wanting to generate leads online, and is used by thousands of individuals and companies. learn more about what we do @ carrot.com → you should have experience in maintaining, extending, and creating react web app features consuming and creating rest apis modern php development practices using composer for package management testing with phpunit wordpress plugin and theme development git workflow, including: branching, pull requests, code reviews performance is something near the top of your mind (we’re proud of our average pagespeed and ttfb results!) 🚀 these skills would be nice experience with ruby on rails, laravel, or any modern web framework proficiency with sql and designing relational database schemas familiarity with the roots stack (bedrock and sage) familiarity with docker-based devops why carrot work on a high performance team that loves what they do! have future opportunities for growth, and have a great time working together. code reviews, peers to learn from, and slack to gif in. help thousands of customers, across our network of thousands of websites, and 100s of thousands of monthly visitors work directly with our team only, we have a full support staff for our customers twice annual company retreats work wherever you want with flexible hours professional growth allowance for books, conferences, and more who you’ll be working with chris carr, cto austin pray ben word matt mirus apply for this position sounds like a match? go ahead and fill out our application form. after successfully interviewing we prefer to engage the selected candidate in a 90-day contract-to-hire period. if you go through this process you will have an opportunity to meet the team and see how great it is to work at carrot! apply now our customers rave about our support we’re here for you with setup help, extensive and easy to use tutorials & videos, and live chat! join today and we’re sure you will love it, or we’ll give you your money back — it’s that simple. free online marketing articles & training what the coronavirus pandemic means for agents & investors & why we’re doubling down ep 200: 100% virtual real estate investing | how to find the best brrr deals, private money, consistent high-quality leads, and more w/ jon tran 5 real estate blog post templates to make your writing easier ep 199: direct mail masterclass #4 | the one missing piece to your direct mail marketing w/ christina krause pricing webinar blog support careers client stories affiliates contact us last month carrot members generated over 59,454 leads online (61% of those on mobile devices) lead generating real estate investor & agent websites © 2020 carrot, llc – all rights reserved terms privacy