home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library christmas holidays travel prevnext fun things to do with the kids over winter half-term leyla preston tue 31st jan 2017 2shares share tweet pin i am willing to bet that parents from around the country were counting down the hours until the children broke up from school and the festive season could start properly. whether it was hanukkah (jewish), christmas (christian), or the prophet’s birthday (muslim), the time for festivities was here and now. finally, we could knuckle down to wrap the pressies with the kids, prepare a grandeur meal for friends and family, and just make sure the days – and nights – were supremely merry. the kids got to have a whale of a time, surrounded by their loved ones, whilst opening up a barrage of awesome presents and enjoying the sudden relaxation of bedtime rules, as well as the right to eat chocolate into the night. (the boys decorating the christmas tree) but, then the boredom hit after the parties had finished, the fun was over and the festive food had been eaten. back to school, the kids went. now, half term is nigh and the holidays are back on, albeit for only a week. so, what is there to do to keep the kids occupied this winter half term? here are some of motherhood diaries’ tried and tested ways of having fun with the kids and, better still, some fun things the kids can do by themselves, so you can have that well-deserved rest. yes, it’s deserved. table of contents invest in an activity box – or make your own! build a really large jigsaw puzzle do something different and try out an experience day together other articles you may be interested in reading invest in an activity box – or make your own! the boys and i enjoy receiving our fortnightly weekend box and monthly toucan box in the post. but, sometimes, we’re not always up for an afternoon of arts and crafts, especially when the kids are winding down after school. so, i store the boxes away and when we actually have some time to get creative, i bring them out again. our latest activity was making a snowman over the christmas holidays, courtesy of toucan box. i just love how everything you need is so helpfully provided for you in exactly the right amount that is required for the activity. plus, we get to build our own activity box of items that are left over from each box. so, if you don’t want to buy or subscribe to an activity box, just use your own, along with all the wrapping and packaging you received over the festive period. it doesn’t matter if you don’t make anything super constructive, just the act of mucking in and actually achieving something you built together is well worth the bonding session and the brain cells used in the process! build a really large jigsaw puzzle if you fancy another team building exercise, jigsaw puzzles are at the top of the list. if adults join the party, try a 1,000-piece jigsaw puzzle together, which should last a long period of time. it may be worth investing in a portapuzzle, so you can put the jigsaw away when you’ve had enough. when you’ve completed the puzzle you can hang it up on your wall with some jigsaw glue. i found this great tutorial on how to frame your jigsaw onto the wall here. alternatively, you can buy a 75 – 100-piece jigsaw puzzles just for the kids, which will keep them amused for hours and give you a little bit of a break. 100-piece jigsaws can also look great on the wall. do something different and try out an experience day together winter shouldn’t confine you indoors and actually, it’s good for you to get out into the crisp, fresh air and get the blood pumping a bit. i love taking the boys out to do sports-based activities** and research (albeit limited) has shown that moderate exercising boosts the immune system and helps fight off those winter bugs. plus, getting active in the winter helps combat those seasonal blues and get you out of bed just that bit easier. our next goal with the kids is to go camping somewhere out in the wilderness for the weekend. i found a great deal on into the blue’s website of experience gifts and memories for a ‘luxury tree house break‘ for £399.00 (for 2 adults and 2 children). a two-night break in a luxury tree house, with running toilet facilities and a hot springwater shower sounds to me like glamping with the family at its finest! then, we could head out into the woods with our bikes and work up our appetites with some outdoor exercise as a family before we relax and unwind with that hot springwater shower. motorbike supremos can leave the kids at a playhouse/creche and journey the area at super speed (you can find some great bikes on bikebandit.com if you’re looking to invest – my husband is!) make sure to kit out your bikes with some great dunlop tires, which are suitable for rough outdoor turf – safety first! you can also check out the article i wrote on the ‘top 5 ways to enjoy the half-term holiday with the family’. what are your favourite tips for keeping the kids amused over the winter break? please share in the comments below. *collaborative featured post* *this article contains affiliate links* **explore more at winter ninja other articles you may be interested in reading top five tips for spreading the cost of christmas 10 items every children’s birthday party should contain – vertbaudet’s party in a box 5 super healthy and cold-busting smoothies using the breville blend-active family pack – product review 5 ideas to keep the kids entertained in bad weather bernard matthews lunchbox challenge – 3 awesome recipes by kids for kids all i want for christmas is a cardboard box a mum’s guide to having some ‘me’ time party sausage rolls – recipe as part of organix ‘no junk’ lunchbox challenge the busy parent’s guide to entertaining your child playmobil – the perfect toy sets for busy boys like mine! cakes by robin – thomas celebration cake product review an evening with the kids building a more cost-cutting winter home with happier homes tips for painting with your children top 4 seasonal holiday ideas for the family top five tips for decorating your kids’ bedroom with lulu & nat london top five restful activities for parents with five minutes to spare 10 winter art projects for your children top tips for stocking up a dressing up box, affordably travelling with children how to keep warm with the kids this winter how you can encourage your child to be active leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:activitieschildrenchristmashalf termholidaywinter related posts how to save money on gifts this christma... have an egg-cellent easter with wentwort... quick and simple fashion tips for busy m... how you can encourage your child to be a... the benefits of your child learning to p... sleepless nights and children ho, ho, ho! jolly christmas pancake idea... ghostly cork 9 reasons why you should visit the antar... the best holiday destinations for new pa... my best friends – parenting and ra... how to keep yourself healthy and benefit... two small babies to two big beautiful bo... fun things to do with the kids that don’... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... win £250 just by sharing your favourite ... the best tablet tech for the family top 3 great things i want to do with the... my way or the highway 5 reasons to take the kids to mauritius ... the start of a school term world hand hygiene day 2017 – join us in... tips for painting with children how you can use matched betting to save ... 6 reasons why you should take your baby ... nannies, child minders or nursery obliga... do children from a working class backgro... top five tips for spreading the cost of ... brantano clarks ballerina shoes – ... why we decided to use an airport car par... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 2shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok