home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog debate party / election party ideas september 26, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment why not put a table out at your party and everyone takes one when they enter your party. whoever has the least cupcakes left in your party is the winner of the night! election cupcakes {georgetown cupcakes} … [read more...] pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 funny fitness images & funny quotes may 5, 2016 by erin weiss 1 comment here are my favorite funny fitness images and funny quotes for the week! enjoy and feel free to share! if you like these, make sure to check out: 101 gym quotes. … [read more...] hangry 101 – your guide to being hangry august 28, 2015 by erin weiss 1 comment have you heard of the word "hangry" lately? unless you've been living under a rock, i'm sure you've heard someone use the word hangry in the past year. personally, i knew of this word before the term became popular because of my father. sorry dad, but you know it's true. if he doesn't eat at his scheduled "feeding time" every day, the man can get a bit irritable...as can … [read more...] ugly sweaters for women november 3, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment ugly sweaters for women it's never too early to start thinking about what you're going to wear to this year's ugly sweater parties!!! ugly sweaters for women have never been more hilarious than they are today. i've never had good luck going to thrift stores in search for ugly sweaters for women because they just seem to be picked over or smell like crap. i've found that … [read more...] all about them weights, ‘bout them weights, no treadmill! november 3, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment because i'm all about them weights. 'bout them weights. no treadmill. if you're someone who loves lifting and hates the treadmill, this image is for you! make sure to share below this post if you agree! … [read more...] 10 things not to do at the gym may 28, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment we have all had an experience at the gym where you see someone doing something and it causes you to do a double take. you look back to make sure you weren't hallucinating. "what in the world are they doing?!?!" i'm here to help stop the madness. if you are guilty of doing any of the below actions, feel free to stop now yesterday. 1.) wearing jeans or jorts sure, … [read more...] funny fitness picture of the week may 27, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment if you don't like where you are, then change it. you are not a tree. [tweet "if you don't like where you are, then change it. you are not a tree. - @erinstaysfit"] … [read more...] funny gym tweets april 10, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment everyone loves a good gym tweet! here are a few of my favorite gym tweets from this … [read more...] a dog’s guide to a healthy life april 7, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment a dog's guide to a healthy life if you are a dog lover like me, you'll love this cute little guide from a dog's point of view. if you have a friend who you think would like this, feel free to share it with them by using the share icons above! eat - workout -resist - sleep eat workout resist sleep eat, workout, resist, sleep & … [read more...] world’s most unathletic animals april 7, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment here's a look at the world's most unathletic animals. most likely to not succeed in baseball. most likely to fail in running hurdles. the kangaroo who just doesn't give a $h*t when it comes to sports. the laziest swimmer award goes to the hedgehog. world's worst long-jumper goes to ms. kitty. volleyball isn't in this pug's future. i give … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in