skip to content menu posts my story about beyond bossfights podcast gaming conversations with braxwolf pandemic post posted on march 21, 2020march 21, 2020 by braxwolf if you haven’t already, please go check out roger edwards’ post on the covid-19 pandemic in london. as is often the case, roger has provided me with a topic to similarly address from my own, somewhat less sophisticated viewpoint. continue reading “pandemic post” → tagged family, health, lifeleave a comment beyond bossfights 36 – with a side of turkey posted on february 14, 2020february 14, 2020 by braxwolf brax and dj talk about turkey basting, gaming journalism, ford v ferrari and more! audio: http://_%20media.blubrry.com=media.blubrry.com%20beyondbossfights%20djpimpdaddy.forgot.his.name=djpimpdaddy.forgot.his.name%20bb036.mp3=bb036.mp3 download | subscribe on itunes | stitcher continue reading “beyond bossfights 36 – with a side of turkey” → tagged elder scrolls online, eso, films, mmo, mmorpg, technology, video gamesleave a comment content creators and development teams: how close is too close? posted on february 5, 2020 by braxwolf in the era when anybody and everybody can be a content creator, this subject can be a little sticky. i’m going to try and approach it as delicately as possible. please know that i do not intend it as a passing of judgment on anyone. if you’re a content creator, and you’ve found a formula that works for you, keep at it! we need independent thought and commentary about games and communities. continue reading “content creators and development teams: how close is too close?” → tagged community, elder scrolls online, eso, podcasting, streaming, teso, video games1 comment beyond bossfights 35 posted on october 11, 2019october 11, 2019 by braxwolf brax and dj talk about the ffvii port, the rocky films, family d&d experiences, what they’ve been playing and even answer some listener questions! audio: http://media.blubrry.com/beyondbossfights/djpimpdaddy.forgot.his.name/beyondbossfights/bb035.mp3 download | subscribe on itunes | stitcher continue reading “beyond bossfights 35” → tagged drones, elder scrolls online, eso, films, massively, mmo, mmorpg, music, technology, video gamesleave a comment avengers endgame brought tears to my eyes posted on august 8, 2019august 7, 2019 by braxwolf i enjoyed avengers endgame. in fact, i liked it so much that i’m not going to address the part that made me roll my eyes (that everybody in my twitter feed loved). i don’t feel that it’s worth nitpicking this, the first and only culmination of a ten year cinematic arc. to be able to bring that much storytelling to a satisfying conclusion is nothing short of incredible. continue reading “avengers endgame brought tears to my eyes” → tagged films, kids, marvel, movies, real life1 comment blaugust tip: schedule your posts posted on august 7, 2019august 2, 2019 by braxwolf i know, it’s tough. you’ve just punched out your latest and greatest blog post. it’s just sitting there, staring back at you. you can hardly wait to send your new baby out into the world and see what kind of reactions it garners. that publish button looms large. but wait, take a deep breath, and use your content management system’s scheduling option instead. continue reading “blaugust tip: schedule your posts” → tagged blaugust, blogging, creative, writing3 comments someone stole my blog: a cautionary tale posted on august 6, 2019august 6, 2019 by braxwolf oh, the vanity domain. why can’t we resist your ego-boosting charm? i mean, it’s right in the name – vanity. and yet, most bloggers (including myself) just can’t resist the thought of staking out our very own section of cyberspace. continue reading “someone stole my blog: a cautionary tale” → tagged blaugust, blogging, creative, internet, technology, writing7 comments posts navigation older posts search on this site search for: let’s connect! twitter youtube facebook beyond bossfights itunes youtube spotify playerfm rss feed follow blog via email enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. follow blogroll a green mushroom aywren sojourner bio break casual aggro contains moderate peril endgame viable inventory full lotro players mmo bro mmo gypsy murf vs tales of the aggronaut the ancient gaming noob thinking play wolfy's eyes recent posts pandemic post march 21, 2020 beyond bossfights 36 – with a side of turkey february 14, 2020 content creators and development teams: how close is too close? february 5, 2020 beyond bossfights 35 october 11, 2019 avengers endgame brought tears to my eyes august 8, 2019 blaugust tip: schedule your posts august 7, 2019 someone stole my blog: a cautionary tale august 6, 2019 blaugust tip: make haste! august 5, 2019 blaugust tip: make friends august 4, 2019 blog at wordpress.com. gaming conversations blog at wordpress.com. privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy post to cancel