1.5m ratings 277k ratings see, that’s what the app is perfect for. sounds perfect wahhhh, i don’t wanna the official guide to gaming on tumblr posts ask a q archive streamer spotlight: storymode bae @storymodebae has been streaming on twitch since january 2018. her passion for video games comes from watching her dad play games like doom, duck hunt, and super mario. in 1996, she received her very own playstation. she spent hours with crash bandicoot and spyro before getting a game boy with pokémon blue in ’99. she has had her eyes glued to a screen, whether it’s playstation, pc, nintendo switch, or a mobile, ever since. what has been the best streaming moment that you have experienced? it’s hard for me to really narrow down my best streaming moment because, honestly, the way my bae brigade continually shows up for me, every stream can easily be filled with amazing streaming moments. i will say, one moment that blew me away was last year during my birthday celebration stream. not even 30 minutes of me being live and thanking everyone for the birthday wishes, twitch staff came in and raided my entire stream and chat, announcing that i had made partner! i had the ugliest cry ever, shriveled chin and all, but i wouldn’t change it for anything! i was so overwhelmed with emotion, support, and love! congratulations on being featured in twitch’s black history month celebration! what do you hope viewers took away from that experience? being featured in twitch’s black history month is definitely an honor! if nothing else, i want people to realize that there are so many dope black content creators putting in work throughout the entire year, regardless of all the racism & trolling we have to face. i often say that we’re here and we aren’t going anywhere, because it’s true! we are worth so much more than only being celebrated and highlighted during february. how can we disrupt the gaming industry, so there is an increase in women of color being celebrated? unfortunately, a lot of black creators, especially women, aren’t being properly highlighted or promoted, even though they’re putting out amazing content. as we know, the gaming industry is primarily dominated by white men, and to be honest, i’m tired of it. groups like black girl gamers and brown girl gamer code provide opportunities and create a sense of community for black women, which is amazing. we just need the right set of eyes on us to properly promote us and show the world that yes, black women play video games, too. how do you see #blackexcellence365 being celebrated in your streaming experience? to me, #blackexcellence365 is constantly defying odds and proving others wrong. not only do we influence the majority of american culture, but we’re also able to act in ways that make us and our communities proud. i want more black people to get the shine and recognition they deserve. if that means taking the time to shout out other black content creators, promote their content, and give them opportunities to come on my channel so they can be heard, i will. we can be great on our own, but together we’re a force to be reckoned with. what is your dream for your gaming and streaming career? where do you hope to be by next year? when i first began streaming, it was a hobby and something i did to pass the time. i saw streamers on youtube and said, “well, i love video games, and i love talking, i can do this too!” now that streaming has become my career, i want to take it even further. i’ve learned that my voice has power. i love being able to motivate and inspire other people and want to continue to make people proud of the efforts and work i’m putting in. it’s more than hoping to pay off my student loans—i want to use this platform to bring awareness and honesty about the black experience while streaming, and just in life in general. i want to use opportunities like this to promote other amazing black streamers or groups that deserve their shine as well because i remember the experience of thinking that your voice or content isn’t being heard or seen. i want everyone to eat and have a seat at the table—word to solange. you’ve got some friends over for the night. what game do you pull out? game night?! oh, we’re definitely playing mario party or mario kart! if i feel like starting chaos and breaking up friendships on that particular day, we’re playing overcooked 2 or monopoly. thanks, storymode bae! make sure to give her tumblr some love or watch her streams here! storymode bae women's history month streamer spotlight blackexcellence365 streamer women's history spotlight 2,030 notes 2,030 notes mar 16th, 2020 open in app facebook tweet pinterest reddit mail embed permalink taciyet liked this billpickle reblogged this from featured clovershroom reblogged this from gaming kaitismatic liked this radtimetravelkitty liked this imbrittanybitch reblogged this from gaming blogger-sim reblogged this from gaming malvinkatop liked this melissarose777 reblogged this from ai-yo danimoorehead liked this shamelesstrashduck liked this dante-alafonz-hawkins reblogged this from gaming virtuallyfabulous liked this peachices liked this cquito liked this delphinesid liked this robotiko380 liked this sheilastansbury reblogged this from isleswoman sunwray reblogged this from jamaicanblackcastoroil at-sunwray liked this ai-yo reblogged this from jamaicanblackcastoroil and added: you just know they are ugly because who writes like that ugly bitches that’s who suddenegodeath liked this mrrichi1952 liked this koseligs liked this torturedlustxxx reblogged this from gaming torturedlustxxx liked this owlfindmydream liked this neganslucille87 liked this lifecolouredpurple liked this lovesines said: screaming how do you “force diversity” concerning real life people i hate the whites dreamlikeprincess reblogged this from jamaicanblackcastoroil actuallyhansolo liked this mayorchibi liked this mixupmaharani reblogged this from jamaicanblackcastoroil mixupmaharani liked this esafresa liked this soleimmortal liked this otdadetonator liked this lunaralisss liked this freelancerpritam reblogged this from gaming and added: product description : dr. trust ab wheel (usa) abdominal exercise ab blaster fitness roller wheel equipment with knee... gaming posted this show more notesloading... more you might like streamer spotlight: katcontii an up and coming badass in the streamer community, katharine contii, a.k.a. katcontii has quickly become one to watch. having grown up super shy, she finds it funny that she has been streaming for around five years now, entertaining hundreds and even thousands on camera. check it out! what does your normal week look like? my average week for me is streaming monday to friday or saturday, that’s 40-50 hours on camera, then five to ten hours working on edits, emails, and stream ideas. the weekends are what i work hard for during the week. i love to live by the saying, “work hard, play harder.” as someone who lives in las vegas, i enjoy the local night scene. i’m also fortunate enough that most of my immediate family lives within 15-20 minutes from me, so i tend to spend a day or two with my family on a weekly or biweekly basis. what is one thing you wish the average person knew about streaming? as redundant as this sounds, i really wish the average person knew how incredibly difficult it is as a career—the time, energy, the mental breakdowns, the sacrifices. so many people think that it’s easy to sit on camera, play games, entertain, but there’s so much more to it. are there any women in particular that inspire you in the gaming industry? there are two women in the gaming industry that i really look up to—rachel “seltzer” quirico and hafu. what advice would you give to women who are just starting out or wanting to join the industry? the biggest advice i can give to any woman wanting to join this industry is to build up some thick skin. just like almost any industry or career path, it’s extremely hard for us. no matter how good you are, you will always get hate, you will always fight an uphill battle every step of the way. once you can get over the fact that it’s always going to be hard, you will find yourself and your confidence. what’s a question that you’ve always wanted to be asked in an interview? how i deal with the lows of this industry, e.g., hate, depression, lowliness. you wake up tomorrow as the last character you played. who are you? a playerunknown’s battlegrounds character! thanks for your time, kat! you can check out her streams here! katcontii streamer spotlight whm women's history month women in gaming women's history spotlight 1,612 notes open in app facebook tweet pinterest reddit mail embed permalink streamer spotlight: cupahnoodle we are kicking off our streamer spotlights series with cupahnoodle—a zombie stan from socal, a host and commentator, or, put quite simply in her own words: “i do things on the internet.” as a variety streamer, she predominantly plays horror and indie games, but she also does franchise play-throughs from rockstar to thq. last year, she played (and beat) over 160 games along with her community. who better to start us off in our series? what was the first video game that you fell in love with? that’s a tough one! i’m going to say it’s between mega man 3 and teenage mutant ninja turtles arcade game. mega man is the first game i learned codes for, so i thought i was cool, and tmnt was and is still a gem to this day! how did you find your start in streaming? what has the journey been like from then to now? i was late and completely missed justin.tv. when i finally discovered twitch, i remember thinking, “this looks like fun. i’m a gamer. how hard could it be”. boy, was i wrong! i learned the difference between playing games and streaming—from chat interaction to building a community from the ground up, it was way more immersive than i had ever anticipated. i spent the first two years being inconsistent, showing up, and then disappearing like a ninja. then i finally told myself, i’m either going to do this or hang it up. so i did it. i did my best to look for opportunities to put myself out there and meet new people. i wasn’t partnered when twitch introduced the affiliate program but decided not to join because i wanted a partner, and i was willing to do my time until i earned that. i didn’t get partnered until almost two years later. my main focus has always been my community (shout out to cupton!). people invest so much in content creators. it’s more than just the fiscal, they are giving you their time—to me that’s more valuable than any other resource, so i always do my best to look out and give back to them. fast forward, and we’re still growing and hanging out. it really is a pleasure to get to know them, and while i know we all lead separate lives, it’s nice to have somewhere you can relax and have fun together. how has your experience been as a black woman in a gaming industry dominated by white men? when i first started, i was treated like a unicorn. i’m not naive, i knew there weren’t many of us, but even then, it felt foolish; i could always name other black women on the platform. there was a sort of stigma as if people weren’t sure how to perceive or approach me. i never said anything or drew any attention to it. i’m a proud black woman. but more than that, i’m me, and i just want it to be about more than my race. i try not to let others dictate my future. i wanted to stream and cultivate a community, and i refused to let metrics stop me from doing so. i wanted to get into hosting, so i went to conventions and conducted interviews with attendees. i made a little bootleg demo reel and submitted it to twitch, who then invited me to their hosting summit in 2017. from there, i kept working and hosting, and became the first black woman to host twitchcon in 2018. if you had any advice to give to fellow black gamers, what would it be? my advice would be to always be unashamedly, unabashedly you! i feel like when it comes to race, gender, and ethnicity, it is always leaned upon, but that does not define who you are as a person. be honest with your community and with yourself. it isn’t easy putting yourself out there, and at times people suck, but if you’re true to yourself, those people won’t matter. be consistent, start small, and always remember the big picture. oh, and have fun. all the fun. if you’re having fun, everyone is having fun with you! if you could create your own video game character, what would they be like? if i could create a character, she’d be a sistah, because i mean…it can’t just be clem. i would want her to have the triforce of all superpowers: telekinesis, telepathy, and teleportation. i would want her to be smart but flawed, and a little bit crazy (think catalina in gta san andreas). but above all, i’d want her to be strong. no matter what came her way, she’d be with it. like marcus phoenix or claire redfield. thanks, cupahnoodle! like what you’ve read? join the cupton community now and tune in for updates here. this interview has been condensed for clarity. cupahnoodle streamer spotlight blackexcellence365 whm women in gaming women's history month 834 notes open in app facebook tweet pinterest reddit mail embed permalink streamer spotlight: tamashii hiroka tamashii hiroka (@tamashiihiroka) is a pokémon content creator who has been making sweet, sweet content for exactly half of her life (13 years!). if her youtube channel were a person, it would be old enough to start its own youtube channel. she occasionally streams on twitch as tamashiihiroka, where she makes gaming trivia content, top 10 lists, video essays and reviews, and a whole host of other things, mainly around pokémon, but occasionally expanding into other retro gaming topics. what did your first gaming setup look like? what does it look like now? my first gaming set up was way back in 2009 when i finally tried to rig all my consoles up, instead of just hauling one at a time out whenever i wanted to play them (see below). these days i have a big old office where i store and play all my many, many games (see below also). but realistically, i still mostly play games in bed on my tablet or switch. what has your gaming and content creation journey been like from thirteen years ago to now? it began as something i did as a hobby in my last year of middle school. at the time, i made pokémon rom hacking content—essentially really primitive machinima. it was a novelty back then, and it became fairly popular. once i got to high school, i branched out and started making videos about pokémon myths and trivia, which were also successful, basically right away. it was an innovation to approach a single game or franchise the way i did, so it wasn’t a saturated market for content like it is now. i knew there was an audience just waiting for high-quality pokémon content, so i found my niche and built my audience. eventually, i started making top 10 lists on a weekly basis, and that was when i really blew up and was able to begin doing this for a living. i’ve experimented with a few subjects and video styles over the last few years, including covering general nostalgic games and talking specifically about my pet interest, games made for girls (or gfgs as i call them). i occasionally stream whatever video games i’m playing at the moment on my twitch, which usually means pokémon crystal and pokémon stadium 2. when i went back to school in 2017, i had to prioritize other things, but during those years, i still did a couple of epic (long) pokémon reviews, and i plan to make more whenever i can find the time. who are some creators that have inspired you? i’ve watched lindsay ellis since the long-ago times, and she has always been a big inspiration to me. when i watch her content, it makes me want to make my own and make it funnier and better too. she has the most magnificent insights on film and media and a great sense of humor to boot. i’ve also always enjoyed the cinematic style of james rolfe, who is really great at making you feel like you’re there in his basement playing the game right next to him. in general, i tend to watch a lot of different content all the time. you can find inspiration in unlikely places. if something fascinates you, follow that rabbit hole. if you had to switch lives with a video game character, who would it be? if i could switch lives with a video game character, it’d definitely be chibi-robo. he runs on happiness and solves the climate crisis. the world needs a chibi right now. thanks, tamashii! you can check out her tumblr here! tamashii hiroka streamer spotlight 2,359 notes open in app facebook tweet pinterest reddit mail embed permalink indie game spotlight: wunderling this week we got tired of playing a hero and decided to be a goon. today’s indie game spotlight covers wunderling, a 2d platformer that features some of the best pixel art you’ll ever see. think 16- and 32-bit platformers, if they made the most of 32,000 colors and fluid animation to deliver something truly magical. in the game, you play as a low-level video game goon tasked by the evil witch kohlrabi to track down and defeat the hero, carrot man—a job made slightly easier because you’ve just been given the power to jump! we chatted with niklas istenes, founder and ceo of retroid, who also fulfilled the roles of producer and game designer on wunderling. read on! what was the main inspiration for the game? wunderling is based on an older game we made called cow dash, where the player plays a cow that can’t stop moving forward and backward. it’s sort of the same mechanic, except we developed the story, pixel art, and code from scratch for wunderling. wind-up knight was a source of inspiration as well. how does wunderling differ from other platformers? wunderling is quite unique because the character can’t stop or change direction at will. you need to plan ahead to navigate each level and decide which walls you want to bounce from to change direction. the game has more than 100 levels, all of which are handcrafted and contain a hidden treasure. merely completing a level won’t be super challenging at first, but if you want more depth, we really recommend going for the treasure! getting it and completing the level will yield valuable customization items such as glasses, hats, video game references, and more. wunderling also features a very interesting story, penned by alex faciane, in which you get to see the bad guys squabbling behind the scenes :) if you could have a crossover with any video game franchise, what would it be and why? the game makes several references to other franchises—super mario bros., in particular. however, once you go deeper into wunderling, the similarities give way for a totally unique experience. you might have guessed that i’m also a big fan of super smash bros. it would be awesome to have a crossover with nintendo’s ip, but the wunderling would not be a particularly good fighter: it would just keep walking, thus falling off the stage! if you were placed in your game, do you think you would survive? being dropped into the vegetable kingdom as myself? i think i’d be totally fine since basically everyone is a vegetable. what harm could they possibly do to me? i’d be safe except for those nasty spike balls… ready to be a goon? wunderling is available now on steam and nintendo switch! or you can stay updated here. wunderling retroid indie game spotlight 797 notes open in app facebook tweet pinterest reddit mail embed permalink indie game spotlight: the wild at heart get lost in an adventure in this week’s indie game spotlight. the wild at heart is the story of wake, a boy fleeing hardship only to become lost in the woods behind his house. stumbling into a magical realm known as the deep woods, wake will use his ingenuity, the magical spritelings inhabiting this land, and the aid of the wayward greenshields to help him find his way home. we spoke with head writer and narrative designer alex atkins about what inspired the game and its creatures. read on! what was the main inspiration for the game? the initial concept came from myself and justin baldwin (artist, animator, designer). justin and i have been friends and business partners for many years and had pretty similar childhoods. justin came up with the idea of a boy lost in the woods with helpful little creatures. i drew upon our real lives as kids, both good and bad, to create a sort of amalgam of us when we were twelve, combined with some mutual childhood inspirations such as where the wild things are, peter pan, and hayao miyazaki & studio ghibli. from there, we came up with a storybook shape of a secret land, open only to those that are allowed in, and filled with mischievous and delightful creatures, a host of oddball “caretakers,” and an ancient imprisoned evil. how are spritelings used in the game? you’ll find early on that the spritelings are basically your hands. they build, break, carry, and fight. as the player, you command them and are responsible for what you task them with, even if it brings them harm. there are different breeds with different strengths that must be considered. for example, while all spritelings can perform basic tasks like carrying a small item or helping to reconstruct a bridge, only an emberling would be immune to fire or its proximity. any other spriteling type would be hurt. what are some other features we can expect in the game? well, the biggest may be one we haven’t shown off yet— a second playable character! kirby is wake’s neighbor, who joins him early in his adventure in the deep woods. kirby can also command and interact with the spritelings, and being slightly smaller than wake, she has the ability to squeeze through small spaces. we hope to be able to show off more of kirby’s gameplay and her role in the very near future. which creature in the game do you most identify with? hmm, i’d say either the sheltergrub that really just wants to be left alone or the gumblop that is super hungry all the time! want to stay in the loop on all things the wild at heart? they’re shooting for an early 2021 release on xbox and pc. you can wishlist it on steam and the humble store, or visit here for more updates! indie game spotlight the wild at heart alex atkins 1,810 notes open in app facebook tweet pinterest reddit mail embed permalink indie game spotlight: floppy knights time to clean out your storage and take out those old floppy discs! in this week’s indie game spotlight, we’re talking floppy knights, which offers a fresh take on two familiar genres. it combines tactics and deckbuilding, all wrapped up in a colorful fantasy-meets-80s-tech aesthetic! we had the pleasure of speaking with marlowe dobbe, the creative director of floppy knights, about all things relating to inspiration, characters, and good gameplay. read on! what were some inspirations for the game? floppy knights pulls a lot of inspiration from games we’re big fans of. it’s a new sort of mash-up between deck-building games like dominion and tactical games like advance wars. i’d say a lot of the color palette and the overall visual saturation and brightness come from advance wars as well. the game’s concept originally came from a game jam two years ago. what has the journey been like since then? this is the longest i’ve ever sat on an idea that i’ve liked this much. it was really interesting having it on the back burner and kind of thinking about the characters and world just in my own headspace. when we finally had the opportunity to start working on the game, i already felt very familiar with the world and knew how to flesh it out. bringing it to the team is what really got it from a rough concept to an actually viable game—particularly working with christian on nailing down that really addictive gameplay. i wanted to evoke the same good-brain feelings i get from all my favorite tactics games! who are some of the characters we can expect to meet? the main protagonist is called phoebe. she’s a very smart but very lazy engineer who’s decked out her robotic arm, carlton, to read floppy discs and turn them into tangible projections called “floppy knights.” with the help of these floppy knights, she’s taking on odd jobs around town to try and make a quick buck. in addition to phoebe, carlton, and all the floppy knights we’ll meet, there’s a whole cast of characters that will cross paths with her as she gains more and more notoriety for her invention! did you design any characters that didn’t make it into the game? plenty! i’ve done a lot of concept art around what characters would look like in the world of the game. i designed way more floppy knights than we’ll ever need, and the jury’s still out on how many of those will actually make an appearance. we did a lot of work on the balance of the decks themselves and realized each deck should have roughly 5-7 different floppy knights—instead of the 10-15 i had initially designed. cuts had to be made, but our favorite designs have made it so far, and the game’s way better for it. well, what are you waiting for? time to boot up those discs! you can wishlist floppy knights right now on steam, and stay tuned for their release in 2020! floppy knights rose city games indie game spotlight 355 notes open in app facebook tweet pinterest reddit mail embed permalink women’s history month spotlight: catt small oh, yes! we have another women’s history month feature for you. meet product designer, game developer, programmer, and artist, catt small (@letter-q). catt is an original organizer for the game devs of color expo that highlights creators of color by showing off their games, creating and building conversation, and signal-boosting their reach. oh, and—get ready—it’s in nyc this july if you want to attend in person. want to learn more about catt and her projects? read on! tell us a little bit about yourself and how you got into the gaming industry. i consider myself to be a creative technologist—i’m an artist who loves to learn and explore through the lens of code and other technology-centric resources. i started making games around the age of 10, which is when i learned how to build online dress up dolls using a random scripting language called fkiss. i was gaming long before then, though; my mom and were playing sega genesis games together when i was about 6 years old. i also have wonderful memories of board gaming with my parents. in other words, games have always been around me. they were just another part of my life. many people grew up with games, but games weren’t always accessible to build. i failed many times while trying to make more complex games as a teenager, which led to me tabling the subject. i began to try again in college when i stumbled upon other creative technologists at a university in brooklyn (which i didn’t attend at the time). i contributed my art skills, and they showed me tools like construct and game maker. i started attending games events, met more wonderful people, and the ball kept rolling from there. along with your other jobs and projects, you also organize the game devs of color expo. can you talk more about that? i started helping to organize the game devs of color expo in 2015. people of color have always been in the industry, but often feel marginalized and alone in game development spaces. i wanted to create a space in which game developers of color could feel more normal and, overall, be given the support necessary to thrive. with much help from an awesome group of game developers and marketing specialists, the game devs of color expo has grown in scale beyond my wildest dreams. the event is open to all people, but specifically highlights amazing work by people of color. we’ve never had to worry about “lowering the bar,” a common concern i hear from well-meaning people who want their events to be more diverse. in fact, several people we’ve highlighted went on to win awards at larger games events. i’m so proud of what this event has become and am looking forward to the next one this july. your coming-of-age narrative game, sweetxheart, was recently released. how does it address race, gender, and microaggressions? in sweetxheart (pronounced “sweetheart”), players act as kara, a 19-year-old girl from the bronx who attends an art college and interns at a tech company. over five fictional days, players control how kara deals with situations such as getting dressed, responding to catcallers, and navigating awkward friendship and family dynamics. kara’s stress level is the core mechanic, and each choice the player makes has an effect. sweetxheart demonstrates the ways in which tiny interactions can make or break someone’s day. microaggressions, which seem meaningless to all but the recipient, can cause serious emotional damage. through tiny in-game interactions, players can see the ways in which multiple identities interact to create the anxiety that i (and others like me) manage on a daily basis. i’m proud of the result and the love the game has received—after all, i spent about five years on it! in what ways can the gaming industry support women and marginalized communities move forward? i’ve been glad to see the outpouring of support for disadvantaged people over the past several years. however, the support is often verbal. i want to see people receiving more financial support. whether that be in the form of direct money through hired jobs, game sales, or recommendations for work and speaking engagement, the best way to help is to sponsor people who don’t have the same opportunities. even better, give marginalized people as many chances to fail as anyone else. in sweetxheart, kara gets fired if she’s late to work two times. her manager says the policy is in place so people understand the gravity of their actions. but unfortunately, this is an example of the stringency applied to certain people yet not others. we deserve as much mercy as anyone else—and the ability to be mediocre. what projects should we expect next? and how can we support? i will be making a game for an nyc-based kickstarter project called wonderville. the game will be exclusive [to donaters], so please back the project if you’d like to play it! i am donating my time to the project since the company organizing it is a non-profit, but i have a patreon if anyone out there is in a gifting mood. funds help me pay other creative people to help me work on projects. thanks for the interview, catt! want to see more like this, tumblr? stay tuned to @gaming all month long for more interviews with women and non-binary persons in the gaming industry. it’s a whole celebration. whm women's history month women in gaming catt small blackexcellence365 80 notes open in app facebook tweet pinterest reddit mail embed permalink indie game spotlight: bonfire peaks get ready to cozy up near a bonfire in this week’s indie game spotlight. bonfire peaks is a difficult 3d open-world puzzle game about attachment, nostalgia, and setting fire to your belongings. it’s full of unique and surprising ideas, high-detail voxel art, and extreme sentimentality. we chatted with corey martin, the sole developer of the game, about voxel art, living in the moment, and letting things go. onwards! you have described bonfire peaks as a game that attempts to make you live in the moment. how is this the case? i listed that as a bullet point for the game in a sorta playful way, but the game is about trying to let go (perhaps not in the healthiest way) and trying to be present. the game is entirely non-verbal, so the emotional themes are explored in a fairly abstract way. at its core, i tried to make a solid puzzle game that wants to show you cool stuff, and hopefully, you connect with the personal layer of the game as well. is there anything in particular that inspired the world of the game? my own issues with attachment and living in the past. i know i’ll feel nostalgic about this time in my life at a later date, so i try hard to not miss it while i’m here, but i don’t always succeed. so i made a game about it. :) what inspired the aesthetic of the game? there’s a big wave of high-detail voxel artists that really had an impact on me, like knos, dima, paul riehle, madmaraca. most of the voxel art-based games are very low-detail (crossy road, etc.), which is nice! it’s cute. but i really like how high-detail voxel art looks, and i’m surprised that it hasn’t really been explored in games. there are lots of high-detail “mature” pixel art games, so why not voxel? what do you hope we take away from the game? delight! surprise. i hope you enjoy your time with it. how delightful! bonfire peaks will be available on steam, humble store, and itch.io for pc, mac & linux later this year! bonfire peaks indie game spotlight corey martin 54 notes open in app facebook tweet pinterest reddit mail embed permalink see this in the app show more top photos