/ submit / search / store / menu blog : show me the posts forums : but read the community guidelines shop : a directory of wonderful products about us : editors, contributors and staff contact us : get satisfaction advertise here : thank you for not blocking ours privacy policy : what we do with data you generate terms of service : what you agree to follow us twitter / facebook / rss thom dunn / 6:30 am fri build your own bagpipes out of a trash bag and record and learn to play in quarantine instructables.com has some new instructions on how to build your own bagpipes, and all you need is: 1 garbage bag or large plastic bag 2 recorders (or 2 pvc recorders:https://www.instructables.com/id/pvc-recorder/) 2 pens (you can also use a decent sized straw or a piece of hose) scissors tape it sounds a little ridiculous, but when you break it down, bagpipes are basically just a recorder with a drone with an attached airbag. as long as you're social distancing, you can imagine yourself standing atop the grassy peaks of the highlands, where your diy garbage bagpipes can be heard all across the land, undoubtedly pleasing your neighbors to no end. i know what i'm doing this weekend. how to make bagpipes out of a garbage bag and recorders [instructables.com] image: public domain via pxfuel read the rest share / tweet / comments bagpipes / diy / diy projects / garbage bags / instruments / musical instruments read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support