i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: blistered shishito and burrata bread salad comfort easy entertaining mains meat free recipes garlicky brown butter mushroom risotto the coziest bowl of risotto: garlicky brown butter mushroom risotto. huge mushroom flavor with plenty of garlic and parm! posted february 13, 2020 by stephanie i am creamy, i am umami filled, i am garlicky brown butter mushroom risotto! hello! are you ready for valentine’s day? i’ve been with mike for so long that valentine’s day, while being a nice excuse to celebrate, doesn’t seem like much of a big deal. we were just chatting about it the other day though, and valentine’s is huge! for fun we took a look at what restaurant reservations were open. everything that was available was either at 4:30pm or at a random non-restaurant. so i guess valentine’s day dinner dates are very much a thing. if you didn’t make a reservation months in advance and are looking for a cozy recipe that says “i love you,” this garlicky brown butter mushroom risotto is it. make it for yourself or for your loved one, just make it! your house will smell amazing and you’ll have a bowl of super comforting, creamy goodness. i don’t know why but around every valentine’s day i get the urge to make risotto. risotto is one of those dishes that seems a little fancy since it’s not something that people make on the regular. but actually risotto is really easy. there isn’t even that much stirring. most of the stirring is at the end. just make sure you use a wide skillet, which helps give the rice more surface area to absorb the broth. we devoured this batch and i’m thinking of maybe making some tomorrow too?! how to make mushroom risotto mushroom risotto is simply risotto flavored with mushrooms: a creamy, italian rice dish made with arborio rice, butter, broth, aromatics, and cheese. in this case, i cooked the mushrooms in a garlicky brown butter giving the risotto even more flavor. mushrooms you can use whichever mushrooms you have on hand, but i like to use a mix if i can. if you’re using white or cremini mushrooms, slice them, but if you’re using a mix (portobellos, trumpet, shiitake, enoki, porchini), tear them so they end up with differently sized craggily bits that sear nicely. arborio rice for risotto you need arborio rice, an italian short grain rice that has a higher starch content which helps thicken the cooking liquid and make it creamy. why you should make this garlicky brown butter mushroom risotto you love mushroom risotto but they never seem to have enough mushrooms for you. this recipe has 1 pound of mushrooms stirred into the risotto and served on top! you love brown butter. the nuttiness of the brown butter compliments the rich umami of the pan seared mushrooms. risotto is your ultimate comfort food. the creaminess and richness of this risotto is pure comfort. the added cream (while not classic) adds an extra luscious feel. it’s creamy, silky, and perfectly al dente. happy risotto-ing! xo steph mushroom risotto with garlicky brown butter creamy, umami packed risotto with brown butter and garlicky buttery mushrooms throughout and on top. prep time 15 mins cook time 35 mins total time 50 mins ingredients brown butter garlic mushrooms 1 lb mushrooms see notes 2 tbsp butter divided 2 tbsp olive oil divided 2-4 cloves garlic minced salt and freshly ground pepper risotto 4 cups low sodium vegetable or chicken stock 2 tbsp butter divided 1 clove garlic minced 1/4 red onion diced 2 tbsp white wine optional 1/2 cup arborio rice 1/2 cup parmesan cheese finely grated 1-2 tbsp heavy cream optional salt and freshly ground pepper instructions add 1 tablespoon butter to a large heavy bottomed skillet over medium high heat until it starts to foam and turn brown. add 1 tablespoon of oil and half of the mushrooms. let sear without moving for 2-3 minutes then toss occasionally, until the mushrooms start to brown and soften. add half of the garlic and season with a pinch of salt and pepper and continue to cook, tossing occasionally, until deeply brown and caramelized, turning down the heat if needed. remove and set aside. repeat with the remaining mushrooms and set aside. heat up the stock over medium high heat and keep at a low simmer. in the pot you made the mushrooms in, melt 1 tablespoon of butter for the risotto. let the butter foam and turn golden, but not burn. add the garlic and onions and cook, stirring, until soft but not brown. deglaze with the wine, scraping the bottom of the pot. reduce the wine until mostly evaporated. stir in the rice and toast, over medium, until the edges of the rice start to look translucent, but the center of the grains are still opaque, 1-2 minutes. add the stock, one cup at a time, stirring occasionally, until the liquid has almost completely absorbed into the rice before adding more stock. you might not need all of the stock. start tasting the rice at the 15 minute mark – the risotto is done when the rice is creamy and cooked through, with a tiny bit of a bite. finish by stirring in the remaining tablespoon of butter, cream, and parmesan. you want the risotto to be somewhat loose. taste and season with salt and pepper. stir in half of the mushrooms. scoop the risotto on to plates or into bowls and top with the remaining mushrooms. enjoy immediately! notes you can use whichever mushrooms you have on hand, but i like to use a mix if i can. if you’re using white or cremini mushrooms, slice them, but if you’re using a mix (portobellos, trumpet, shiitake, enoki, porchini), tear them so they end up with differently sized craggily bits that sear nicely. i topped one portion with a soft sous vide egg for an extra bit of oomph and creaminess. 7 comments kimberly says: february 13, 2020 at 5:59 pm i did not see the shallots mentioned as an ingredient. can you please let me know how much and how to prepare it? i don’t really cool anymore, but this looks delicious! reply stephanie says: february 15, 2020 at 12:06 pm hi kimberly, whoops! it should be onions. i’ll change that right now :) hope you get a chance to cook this! reply sabrina says: february 14, 2020 at 8:16 pm yes, yes, cozy and earthy, and garlic nice too, love a simple set of wonderful ingredients, thank you! reply nathan says: february 18, 2020 at 1:13 pm i love the use of garlic and mushrooms. i have one rule: there is no such thing as too much garlic! thanks for the recipe! reply stephanie says: february 18, 2020 at 7:08 pm i totally agree! reply marisa says: february 18, 2020 at 5:55 pm how many does this recipe serve? reply stephanie says: february 18, 2020 at 7:05 pm hi, it serves 2 as a main and 4 as a starter :) reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website buttercreamitalianmushroomsricerisottovalentine's day one pan creamy dijon mustard mushroom chickenread rilakkuma bear hugging almond shortbreadread ziti alla norma aka eggplant and tomato pastaread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved