you need to enable javascript to view this site. skip to content rankings see all rankings fortune 500 global 500 40 under 40 magazine newsletters video podcasts conferences search sign in age 38 title co-founder and ceo company vaynermedia the self-styled social media marketer has his share of haters for his brash manner, but before you roll your eyes, consider that he’s now on his third successful act: first he built his father’s brick-and-mortar new jersey wine shop into a $45 million business by bringing it online and creating wine library tv, the oddly viral wine-tasting web show. its success made him a social media marketing guru—which then led to a 10-book deal with harperstudio. now he’s focused on vaynermedia, a digital agency he launched in 2009 that advises the likes of ge and pepsico and has grown to nearly 500 employees. vaynerchuk, an early investor in twitter and uber, has also launched a vc fund with miami dolphins owner stephen ross to invest in startups like birchbox and medium. @garyvee may be loud, but his influence is real, and he isn’t going away. created with sketchtool. created with sketchtool.looking for leads, investment insights, or competitive intelligence?buy now previous: 3939 ellen macarthur rankings 40 under 40 100 best companies fortune 500 global 500 most powerful women world’s greatest leaders world’s most admired companies see all rankings sections automotives careers design executive travel the ledger venture finance energy & environment health international leadership lifestyle luxury retail sports technology commentary photography magazine newsletters podcasts customer support frequently asked questions customer service portal us privacy policy terms of use commercial services fortune knowledge group fortune branded content fortune data store fortune conferences advertising about us about us work at fortune behavioral advertising notice terms and conditions © 2019 fortune media ip limited. all rights reserved. use of this site constitutes acceptance of our terms of use and privacy policy (your california privacy rights) | ccpa do not sell my information fortune is a trademark of fortune media ip limited, registered in the u.s. and other countries. fortune may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. offers may be subject to change without notice. quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. market data provided by interactive data. etf and mutual fund data provided by morningstar, inc. dow jones terms & conditions: http://www.djindexes.com/mdsidx/html/tandc/indexestandcs.html. s&p index data is the property of chicago mercantile exchange inc. and its licensors. all rights reserved. terms & conditions. powered and implemented by interactive data managed solutions. | eu data subject requests