related blogs antiviral art the best restaurant in new york blackbag defamer disputations documents dodgeandburn dog domesticity drugs fine vining fortress america frenchgawker weird internet interviews justice morning after phasezero politburo rankings gawker review of books sausage slowgawker sony hack one man's take the cuck themachines the vane the west tktk true stories valleywag 81 days and a wake up brendan o'connor · 08/18/16 06:15am "says who" lawyer claims polls underestimate trump's african-american support hudson hongo · 08/17/16 11:06pm in an interview conducted shortly after his appearance on cnn wednesday night, donald trump’s special counsel michael cohen explained his apparent distrust of all the polls, citing anecdotal evidence that challenged the candidate’s surveyed unfavorability among black voters. report: trump campaign chief tried to stop the taco bowl, failed to stop the taco bowl hudson hongo · 08/17/16 10:16pm on wednesday, the huffington post offered a telling anecdote about the relationship between donald trump and recently demoted campaign chairman paul manafort, revisiting the story of trump’s notorious taco bowl tweet from the perspective of those inside the campaign. hudson hongo · 08/17/16 09:35pm according to the associated press, officials in louisiana now say that at least 13 people have died since historic flooding hit the state this weekend. on tuesday, a white house spokesperson said that more than 70,000 residents have registered for federal disaster aid. chill judge allegedly lets law clerk wear robe, hear cases hudson hongo · 08/17/16 08:37pm as every child knows, playing dress-up can be a lot of fun. as a least one circuit judge in illinois doesn’t, it can also be serious violation of judicial ethics. top trump attorney on universally terrible poll numbers: "says who?" hudson hongo · 08/17/16 05:55pm appearing on cnn wednesday night, donald trump’s special counsel and marital rape truther michael cohen repeatedly challenged the notion that hillary clinton was polling ahead of the republican nominee, employing the (powerful but seldom-used) “la la la, i can’t hear you!” defense. andrew breitbart would have loved the trump campaign alex pareene · 08/17/16 04:55pm the legacy of andrew breitbart, the late founder of the breitbart news network, has been invoked repeatedly during this election cycle, mainly by people who insist that he would not have allowed his media outlet to have become a sort of house organ of the donald trump campaign. former breitbart contributor ben shapiro, who resigned from the site in march, has been particularly adamant that the site’s support for trump is a betrayal of all that breitbart the man stood for. you'll never guess who's angry about cnn "deceptively" editing a video of sylville smith's sister andy cush · 08/17/16 03:55pm in a recent segment, cnn used a short clip featuring the sister of sylville smith, a man who was shot dead by a milwaukee police officer on saturday. in cnn’s version of the clip, sherelle smith can be heard telling a crowd of onlookers, “don’t bring the violence here, and the ignorance here.” later, in a portion of her speech that cnn didn’t air, smith suggested that if the crowd wanted to riot, they should “take that shit to the suburbs, burn that shit down.” which retail experience do you seek out when you desperately need to relax? j.k. trotter · 08/17/16 03:17pm in these trying times, a little retail therapy can do wonders when you’re stressed out of your mind and/or uncertain about your future. (by “retail therapy” i mean: entering a store, walking around a bit, then leaving without buying anything.) so where do you go when you need your kick? my go-to options are: the sentence for hasidic men who beat and blinded a black gay man: community service rich juzwiak · 08/17/16 02:41pm soon after surviving a 2013 beating in williamsburg that left him blind in his right eye, then 22-year-old taj patterson told nbc new york, “i want these people to know they can’t put their hands on anyone and get away with it, and think just because you have on certain attire you can get away with certain things. we’re all equal here.” but the majority of the five men who were investigated for committing a hate crime on patterson, in fact, have gotten away with it. bring your dog to our office hamilton nolan · 08/17/16 12:53pm what’s happening to our website? who owns us now? who’s in charge? nobody knows. why don’t you bring us a dog? fate of gawker.com remains unclear after univision acquisition of gawker media j.k. trotter · 08/17/16 11:28am following a day-long auction against the online publisher ziff davis, the media conglomerate univision is buying gawker media’s assets—including deadspin, gizmodo, jalopnik, jezebel, kotaku, and lifehacker—for $135 million. however, the fate of the company’s flagship website, gawker.com, remains unclear. under governor chris christie, new jersey forgave $25 million donald trump's casinos owed in back taxes brendan o'connor · 08/17/16 09:30am new jersey has one of the largest and most ruthless student loan programs in the country, described by one bankruptcy lawyer as “state-sanctioned loan-sharking.” the state is less strict about collecting on debts, however, when it comes to bankrupt casinos owned by celebrity real estate developers. how to do celebrity journalism good hamilton nolan · 08/17/16 09:10am imagine that you are a journalist, tasked with crafting a true, powerful, and insightful piece of writing about a well known celebrity that can puncture their veil of false mystique. here is how it’s done. donald trump hires breitbart news executive in top campaign role brendan o'connor · 08/17/16 07:00am donald trump is restructuring his campaign once again, the wall street journal reports, hiring stephen bannon, the executive chairman of breitbart news llc, as campaign chief executive, and promoting kellyanne conway, a republican strategist who’d been advising the campaign, to campaign manager. paul manafort will reportedly retain his position as campaign chairman. 82 days and a wake up brendan o'connor · 08/17/16 06:20am death toll rises to 11 in louisiana as floodwaters displace tens of thousands hudson hongo · 08/16/16 10:55pm on tuesday, officials in louisiana said that at least 11 people have died since widespread flooding hit the state in what the red cross has called “likely the worst natural disaster since superstorm sandy,” nbc news reports. donald trump pledges to fight all forms of "bigotry and hatred and oppression" hudson hongo · 08/16/16 09:25pm in a facebook post on tuesday, social justice warrior donald trump promised to show zero tolerance for intolerance as president, ensuring that “every american is treated equally, protected equally, and honored equally.” a gary johnson super pac spent $30,000 on "internet web memes" hudson hongo · 08/16/16 07:00pm according to a new fec filing, alternativepac, a super pac formed by small government activist matt kibbe, spent $30,000 this week on “internet web memes” supporting libertarian presidential candidate gary johnson. that youtuber's upbeat videos about his trip to north korea are the smarmy internet at its worst andy cush · 08/16/16 05:07pm for the last week or so, a british youtuber named louis cole has been uploading dispatches from north korea. rather than focusing on the state’s constant surveillance, arbitrary arrests, and murders of its own citizens, cole is focusing on the positive aspects of the north korean experience, such as the water parks. previous page next page terms of service privacy policy