about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews category: gear & reviews 9 best wedding money box gift ideas mar 10, 2020 neve weddings are such special occasions, so of course you want to give the happy couple an equally special gift. but what do you give a couple that has everything? … read more » 22 best power wheels & electric cars [2020 update] updated jan 9, 2020 neve spicer ride-on cars are the thing of kid's dreams! here we carefully review the very best power wheels and electric cars for all ages and budgets. read more » the 10 best scooters for kids (2020 guide & reviews) updated jan 9, 2020 neve spicer parents, the search is over! we've rounded-up and reviewed the best kids scooters, including 2-wheel, 3-wheel, pro, electric and more. read more » best toys & gifts for 7 year old boys (a very picky 2020 list) updated mar 9, 2020 neve spicer searching for the perfect toy or gift for a 7 year old boy? look no further. as parents and nerds we got busy compiling the ultimate list. we focused … read more » best gift ideas for teenage boys (a very picky 2019 list) updated dec 8, 2019 neve spicer have you been experiencing a bit of gift-buying anxiety now that you are shopping for a teenage boy? hey, we don’t blame you. ask any adolescent what he wants … read more » best gifts for 13 year old boys (a very picky 2020 list) updated jan 9, 2020 neve spicer choosing the best gift for a 13 year old boys is tough, we know. but fear not! this is a very carefully curated list of original and awesome gifts … read more » best gift ideas for teenage girls (a very picky 2019 list) updated dec 10, 2019 neve spicer does shopping for a teen girl conjure up terrifying images of eye rolls and huffy sighs? don’t feel defeated; you are one of many adults that has this same … read more » best toys & gifts for 1 year old girls (a very picky 2020 list) updated mar 6, 2020 neve spicer searching for a gift or toy for a 1 year old girl? then you’ve come to the right place. being parents and nerds when it comes to research, we’ve rounded … read more » posts navigation 1 2 3 4 … 11 next we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest