the adventure blog news, commentary, and insights on adventures, and adventurers, from around the globe. menu home contact us reaching beyond boundaries menu gear closet: kühl silencr pant review posted on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 by kraig becker for years i’ve been hearing about a company called kühl from some good friends who swear by the outdoor apparel it makes. based on their first-hand accounts of the products, i gathered that the kühl’s clothing was comfortable, durable, and attractive, but up until recently i hadn’t had the chance to try any of their items for myself. that all changed about two weeks ago when i was sent two garments to finally take for a test flight. those products included the burr jacket and the silencr pant. you’ll have to wait a bit longer to get my thoughts on the jacket, but after wearing the pants on several occasions, i now have a better understanding of why this brand gets so much love. anyone who has read my reviews of outdoor and travel clothing in the past knows that i value comfort, versatility, and classic good looks from my apparel. obviously you want what ever you’re wearing to fit properly and support you in whatever activities you are undertaking, which is why we all put a high emphasis on comfort. when i say i want something that is versatile, that means i like to travel with garments that are highly functional on the trail, but still look good enough to wear to dinner too. this cuts down on the number of items i need to pack, keeping my bags nice and light in the process. it doesn’t hurt if those clothings happen to look great either, although i don’t expect to be at the height of fashion. instead, i’d rather have clothing that has a classic, never-go-out-of-style look to it that also isn’t overly flashy too. all of that sums up the silencr pant nicely. made from softshell fabrics that are lightweight, breathable, and offer just enough stretch to not inhibit motion, this is a pair of pants designed with adventurers in mind. you could wear them hiking, backpacking, climbing, or just traveling through airports, and they would be equally as functional. at the same time, they look good enough for a casual night out on the town, without anyone taking a second glance. often times, our outdoor gear has an overly technical look to them, but that isn’t the case here and you’ll feel comfortable wearing these in just about any environment. personally, i often have a difficult finding pants that fit properly, in part because i have a fairly narrow waist and a longer length. it doesn’t hurt that running and cycling have given me thick thighs and a sizable rump, all of which have complicated my process of purchasing new pants. that hasn’t been an issue with the silencr however, as they fit nicely right off the shelf. the aforementioned stretch fabrics hold snugly where they should, but have enough give to provide a free range of motion, while articulation in the legs allows for a natural motion as well. as a result, i can put these pants on and know that i’ll be able to take on whatever the day sends my way without much difficulty. designed with the modern adventurer in mind, the silencr comes with seven pockets in total. as with most pants, you have two on the front and two on the back, right where you wold expect them to be. one of those front pockets has a nested coin pocket as well, while two drop-in cell phone pockets are found on each leg. either of those is a handy place to store even larger mobile devices, freeing up your more conventional pockets for other items. other nice touches include a micro-chamois lining along the waist and a dwr coating that helps to keep moisture at bay. the pants aren’t exactly waterproof, but in anything short of a downpour they’re likely to keep you comfortable and dry. ripstop fabrics deliver kühl’s trademark durability, while also offering a 50 upf rating agains the sun too. add in a high level of moisture wicking and you have all of the ingredients you need for a classic adventure pant. as with any good outdoor product, the silencr pant is more than the sum of its part however. yes, the list of features is impressive for a garment as simple as a pair of pants. but, it is how all of those features come together that makes this product stand out in a very crowded field. every gear manufacturer in the outdoor industry makes pants of some kind, but most are fairly simple and don’t do much to separate themselves from the pack. it’s clear that kühl takes its product design and functionality very seriously, delivering a travel garment that you can put in your pack and never have to think about again. that’s the greatest compliment that an adventurer traveler can give his or her clothing, as it means you trust those items completely and know that they’ll get you through whatever challenges you might face. priced at $85, the kühl silencr pant is a must-have for anyone who spends a lot of time on the road or trail. comfortable, durable, and versatile, you’ll find yourself reaching for these pants time and again, whether you’re heading to africa on safari, jetting off to nepal to trek to everest base camp, or just grabbing lunch with friends in town. thankfully, they’re built to last, which means you’ll get all of your money’s worth out of them, and then some. find out more here. share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to share on pinterest (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on whatsapp (opens in new window) click to share on telegram (opens in new window) like this: like loading... leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. search for: follow me on twittermy tweets theadventureblog she’s the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. #s what if my favorite #outdoor #gear quotes is on th touring the #goretex facilities in maryland this w it’s been a minute or three since i posted, so h had a lovely stay in #portland for the new year! n did a little hiking in the presidential range toda more fron#anguilla a beautiful island with lots t scenes from the caribbean! anguilla to be exact! # load more... follow on instagram subscribe to the adventure blog by email! enter your email address: delivered by feedburner the adventure blog kraig@adventureblog.net follow us facebook twitter instagram rss feed apple google spotify ©2020 the adventure blog %d bloggers like this: