toggle search box toggle navigation home news amazon microsoft startups space cloud tech geek life podcasts impact series civic tech health tech podcast presented by premera geek of the week presented by acumatica working geek – presented by alaska airlines startup spotlight tech moves geek home of the day by realogics sotheby’s shift presented by intel echo geek – presented by amazon jobs events geekwire events community calendar resources memberships health benefits geekwire startup resources geekwire startup list geekwire 200 seattle engineering outposts recent fundings geekwire startup spaces community calendar amazon office buildings northwest women vc & angel investor list about about geekwire email newsletters contact us advertise sponsors reprints & permissions search for: latest popular coronavirus live updates: the latest covid-19 developments in seattle and the world of tech amazon shareholders submit 10 resolutions on environment, equity, lobbying and other issues textio lays off 30 amid covid-19; seattle startup hopes its ai writing tech will aid all job seekers bright.md raises $8m for virtual healthcare service that can help with covid-19 related care ‘joyful noise’ rings out in seattle as people show support for workers on front lines of crisis geekwire 200 startup leaders share leadership advice on navigating the covid-19 crisis call for nominations: know an exceptional junior geek? help us spotlight the region’s talented youth northshore school district relaunches online learning program after pausing due to equity issues bill gates: entire country needs to shut down for 6-10 weeks to effectively fight coronavirus xplore’s xcraft space probe lands in xtronaut 2.0 board game — and stem students are the winners amazon’s jeff bezos pledges to help who flood the world with coronavirus test kits music lessons startup play at work becomes ‘play at home’ as tech workers get instruction via video how the $2 trillion coronavirus stimulus package impacts startups fitness studio backed by russell wilson responds to health crisis with access to free virtual workouts univ. of washington researchers predict 80,000 covid-19 deaths in u.s. by july impact of covid-19 on consumer spending: booze buying and video games are up; travel, lodging sink redfin’s coronavirus response: ceo forgoes salary for 2020; agent base pay increases; and more ula’s atlas 5 rocket launches aehf-6 satellite on space force’s first official orbital mission unemployment applications surge 843% in washington state amid coronavirus isolation order to further address bias in writing, textio adds features to highlight ageism and ableism as hospitals run low on protective gear, tech workers are on a quest to help fill the shortage coronavirus live updates: the latest covid-19 developments in seattle and the world of tech whale experts launch free, virtual marine biology camp to entertain and inform kids bill gates warned us of a covid-19-like pandemic — watch his ted talk from 2015 ‘we should’ve done more’: bill gates says us was too slow on covid-19, shutdown now unavoidable univ. of washington researchers predict 80,000 covid-19 deaths in u.s. by july bill gates: entire country needs to shut down for 6-10 weeks to effectively fight coronavirus geek of the week: jen haller got first coronavirus vaccine shot, and like all of us, misses normal life washington governor issues ‘stay home, stay healthy’ order to slow spread of covid-19 internal memo: jeff bezos tells amazon employees he’s ‘wholly focused’ on the covid-19 crisis mobility stats: seattle lags sf and nyc in getting people to stay home in covid-19 response king county unveils new dashboard to track confirmed covid-19 cases, deaths and trends high school student near seattle builds website to serve as a leading place for coronavirus information ‘uncharted territory’: what satya nadella is telling microsoft employees about the covid-19 outbreak package safety: covid-19 is ‘stable’ on cardboard for 24 hours, but risk of transmission is low washington governor avoids ‘shelter in place’ rule, but warns citizens they’re not doing enough amazon and microsoft join white house team to unleash high-performance computing on covid-19 uw treating covid-19 patients with antimalarial drug — researcher calls it ‘very promising’ nintendo’s ‘animal crossing: new horizons’ is an island escape for a quarantined world — here’s what the reviews say geekwire podcast: bill gates on covid-19, gig workers in peril, and more on the coronavirus crisis bill gates calls out federal government for disorganized covid-19 testing in reddit ama trending: univ. of washington researchers predict 80,000 covid-19 deaths in u.s. by july geekwire 200 startup leaders share leadership advice on navigating the covid-19 crisis coronavirus outbreak textio lays off 30 amid covid-19; seattle startup hopes its ai writing tech will aid all job seekers bright.md raises $8m for virtual healthcare service that can help with covid-19 related care ‘joyful noise’ rings out in seattle as people show support for workers on front lines of crisisread more latest news most popular coronavirus live updates: the latest covid-19 developments in seattle and the world of tech by geekwire staff on march 22, 2020march 22, 2020 at 5:29 pm 14 comments follow @geekwire for updates. send us a news tip. subscribe to our newsletter. amazon shareholders submit 10 resolutions on environment, equity, lobbying and other issues by monica nickelsburg on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 at 2:26 pmcomment amazon shareholders plan to press for a range of corporate reforms at the company’s annual meeting in may. amazon released an early proxy statement friday that includes 10 shareholder resolutions… read more textio lays off 30 amid covid-19; seattle startup hopes its ai writing tech will aid all job seekers by kurt schlosser on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 at 2:30 pm 2 comments textio, the seattle startup whose augmented writing platform helps companies use language that attracts the right job candidates, laid off 30 employees on friday, or 20 percent of its team.… read more bright.md raises $8m for virtual healthcare service that can help with covid-19 related care by karina mazhukhina on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 at 1:18 pmcomment bright.md raised more money for its ai-powered virtual healthcare service as the portland, ore.-based startup helps screen patients with covid-19-like symptoms. b capital and seven peaks ventures led an $8… read more latest geekwire videos subscribe for daily video updates. ‘joyful noise’ rings out in seattle as people show support for workers on front lines of crisis by kurt schlosser on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 at 11:49 amcomment we heard you, seattle. from balconies and windows and front porches across the city on thursday night, people cheered, hollered, whistled, banged pots and pans together, played an instrument and… read more geekwire 200 startup leaders share leadership advice on navigating the covid-19 crisis by taylor soper on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 at 10:15 amcomment there is no coronavirus playbook. company leaders are facing an unprecedented crisis as the covid-19 outbreak spreads worldwide and impacts businesses across multiple industries. seattle was the initial epicenter of… read more sponsored post pristine and private home on mercer island situated on a private lane half a block from pioneer park, this pristine home will delight! be welcomed by the inviting gardens and fountain. two-story entry with adjacent office with… see more home photos call for nominations: know an exceptional junior geek? help us spotlight the region’s talented youth by cara kuhlman on march 27, 2020march 26, 2020 at 2:34 pmcomment geekwire celebrates innovative geeks every day — groundbreaking scientists, entrepreneurs and engineers. now, we are excited to introduce a new editorial feature where we will recognize the next generation of geeks.… read more northshore school district relaunches online learning program after pausing due to equity issues by nicole tanner on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 9:24 pmcomment the northshore school district, located north of seattle, plans to relaunch its online learning platform after pausing the initial program earlier this month due to equity issues. according to an email to… read more fun & geeky ‘joyful noise’ rings out in seattle as people show support for workers on front lines of crisis music lessons startup play at work becomes ‘play at home’ as tech workers get instruction via video fitness studio backed by russell wilson responds to health crisis with access to free virtual workouts seattle bakery owner launches restaurant delivery platform as other services pivot during crisis for more fun & geeky stuff, check out geek life. bill gates: entire country needs to shut down for 6-10 weeks to effectively fight coronavirus by todd bishop on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 9:18 pm 16 comments bill gates cautioned thursday night that “there is no middle ground” in the fight against the novel coronavirus, calling for a coordinated effort to effectively shut down normal life across… read more news brief xplore’s xcraft space probe lands in xtronaut 2.0 board game — and stem students are the winners health tech amazon’s jeff bezos pledges to help who flood the world with coronavirus test kits univ. of washington researchers predict 80,000 covid-19 deaths in u.s. by july as hospitals run low on protective gear, tech workers are on a quest to help fill the shortage how two seattle startups are helping doctors uncover hidden trends in covid-19 cases read more health technology articles on health tech. amazon’s jeff bezos pledges to help who flood the world with coronavirus test kits by alan boyle on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 5:48 pm1 comment amazon ceo jeff bezos and the world health organization’s director-general are trading ideas on how to get the covid-19 pandemic under control, using tools ranging from amazon web services’ firepower… read more music lessons startup play at work becomes ‘play at home’ as tech workers get instruction via video by kurt schlosser on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 5:36 pmcomment plenty of work experiences have moved from in-office settings to virtual connections in the weeks since many of us were told to do our jobs remotely because of the coronavirus… read more geekwire podcasts as hospitals run low on protective gear, tech workers are on a quest to help fill the shortage geekwire podcast: bill gates on covid-19, gig workers in peril, and more on the coronavirus crisis ai vs. coronavirus: how artificial intelligence is now helping in the fight against covid-19 geekwire podcast: seattle adjusts to life under the coronavirus threat listen to more geekwire podcasts. how the $2 trillion coronavirus stimulus package impacts startups by monica nickelsburg on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 4:39 pmcomment the u.s. senate passed the largest stimulus package in american history on wednesday to cushion the economy from impacts of the coronavirus pandemic. the legislation carves out special relief programs… read more video fitness studio backed by russell wilson responds to health crisis with access to free virtual workouts by kurt schlosser on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 4:15 pmcomment if you’ve retreated to your basement gym or the floor in front of your television to get some exercise while sheltering in place, russell wilson and his friends at trufusion… read more univ. of washington researchers predict 80,000 covid-19 deaths in u.s. by july by alan boyle on march 26, 2020march 27, 2020 at 11:06 am 6 comments if gaps in health care resources aren’t filled, more than 80,000 americans will die over the next four months due to the coronavirus pandemic, epidemiologists at the university of washington… read more impact of covid-19 on consumer spending: booze buying and video games are up; travel, lodging sink by kate kaye on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 1:22 pmcomment a portland, ore.-area firm with data on tens of millions of credit and debit card transactions flowing into its system each day published a new report this week that reveals… read more redfin’s coronavirus response: ceo forgoes salary for 2020; agent base pay increases; and more by taylor soper on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 2:25 pm1 comment redfin is making adjustments amid the covid-19 crisis and uncertainty surrounding the real estate market. the seattle real estate company wrote a letter to shareholders thursday outlining cost-cutting moves and… read more news brief ula’s atlas 5 rocket launches aehf-6 satellite on space force’s first official orbital mission unemployment applications surge 843% in washington state amid coronavirus isolation order by monica nickelsburg on march 26, 2020march 27, 2020 at 7:59 amcomment washington state has seen an unprecedented spike in unemployment applications amid an order for all non-essential workers to remain in their homes to slow the covid-19 outbreak. applications for unemployment… read more to further address bias in writing, textio adds features to highlight ageism and ableism by kurt schlosser on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 11:23 am1 comment textio’s augmented writing work to help companies use the right language to find the right people for jobs — while eliminating bias — is expanding to include features related to… read more play episode podcast as hospitals run low on protective gear, tech workers are on a quest to help fill the shortage by monica nickelsburg on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 4:02 pmcomment play the coronavirus outbreak in washington state has not yet reached the “peak” that some public health officials anticipate, but already icu physicians like mike holmes are grappling with a dearth… read more during run on toilet paper, cloud paper is on a roll with its tree-free product and a worthy donation by kurt schlosser on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 9:24 am1 comment toilet paper is a popular item these days, as the coronavirus outbreak has created a run on the household staple and led to empty store shelves across the country. cloud… read more microsoft to acquire affirmed networks to bolster 5g-related cloud offerings by taylor soper on march 26, 2020march 27, 2020 at 1:07 pmcomment microsoft said today that it will acquire affirmed networks, a boston-area startup that sells virtualized network software to mobile operators. “this acquisition will allow us to evolve our work with… read more expect more football than fortnite as sports betting comes to washington state tribal casinos by gregory scruggs on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 7:06 amcomment seattle sports fans may be able to place a legal bet on russell wilson’s pass completion rate during the seahawks home opener this fall, but not from their favorite pioneer… read more video how two seattle startups are helping doctors uncover hidden trends in covid-19 cases by karina mazhukhina on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 at 9:28 amcomment it’s critical for doctors and other health care providers to see the underlying trends in covid-19 cases, to understand what’s working and what isn’t in the fight against the pandemic. two… read more pandemic data mining underscores the importance of social distancing in china — and in seattle by alan boyle & lisa stiffler on march 25, 2020march 26, 2020 at 7:23 amcomment masses of location data gathered in china show that intensive testing, tracking and restrictions on mobility are effective strategies for fighting a coronavirus outbreak. they also show that the strategies… read more video uw medicine sets up tents to prepare for surge of patients in covid-19 outbreak by alan boyle on march 25, 2020march 25, 2020 at 6:21 pmcomment uw medicine is implementing its plan to deal with a surge of patients with covid-19 respiratory symptoms, including the erection of tents outside hospital emergency departments for initial screening. the… read more video calling all kids: send blue origin a space postcard while you’re stuck at home by alan boyle on march 25, 2020march 25, 2020 at 4:31 pm1 comment are you looking for educational activities to occupy the kids while you’re cooped up due to the coronavirus outbreak? one option is to make space postcards for the club for… read more ‘america needs our help’: q&a with offerup ceo nick huzar after seattle-area startup lands $120m by taylor soper on march 25, 2020march 25, 2020 at 4:52 pmcomment with many physical stores closed and online retailers facing shipping delays, it’s difficult to buy just about anything amid the covid-19 outbreak. offerup wants to help. the bellevue, wash.-based peer-to-peer… read more king county unveils new dashboard to track confirmed covid-19 cases, deaths and trends by karina mazhukhina on march 25, 2020march 25, 2020 at 6:07 pm1 comment king county has unveiled a new dashboard for tracking coronavirus stats, including a chart for cases and deaths as well as trends by zip code, including individual communities in seattle… read more video boeing and airline stocks soar higher, thanks to billions of dollars in promised aid by alan boyle on march 25, 2020march 25, 2020 at 2:21 pmcomment even as boeing begins a 14-day production shutdown in the puget sound due to the coronavirus outbreak, the aerospace giant is in line for a financial booster shot, thanks to… read more older subscribe to geekwire newsletters geekwire newsletters subscribe to geekwire's free newsletters to catch every headline email address subscribe geekwire daily - top headlines daily geekwire weekly - most-read stories of the week, delivered sunday breaking news alerts - important news as it happens geekwire space & science - weekly headlines from alan boyle, award-winning aerospace and science editor geekwire podcasts — weekly update with our latest audio episodes geekwire mid-week update — most-read stories so far this week, delivered wednesday geekwire local deals — special offers for pacific northwest area readers welcome to geekwire studiossee more geek home of the daysee more pristine and private home on mercer island $1,895,000 | four beds | three full and one half baths featured sponsorsee more send us a tip have a scoop that you'd like geekwire to cover? let us know. send us a tip job listings on geekworksee more find more jobs on geekwork. employers, post a job here. deep learning engineer // co-founderallen institute for artificial intelligence (ai2) technical co-founder // cto (stealth startup)allen institute for artificial intelligence (ai2) cto-in-residence // co-founderallen institute for artificial intelligence (ai2) see moremember message kalungi: growth-as-a-service for b2b saas companies become a member for exclusive benefits. see moregeekwire events community events sat 28 postponed: yposeattle 9th anniversary party march 28 @ 7:00 pm - 11:30 pm sun 29 postponed: i dig dinos: mesozoic monsters march 29 @ 10:00 am - 2:00 pm mon 30 postponed: wake up! part 1 march 30 @ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm see more events geekwire podcast galactic sponsors platinum sponsors gold sponsors silver sponsors see morestartup resources for more helpful startup resources, see the geekwire service provider directory. mcnaul ebel nawrot & helgren pllc legal services macdonald hoague & bayless legal services see moreseattle engineering centers track companies with engineering centers in the seattle region adobe software neo blockchain a word from our sponsors change your career – start june 2020 #allinseattle raises $27m to provide immediate assistance for people impacted by covid-19 read more become a geekwire member: support quality journalism seattle house: live big, live well, and put yourself first in seattle’s new vertical community read more the road to reinvention could be the key to survival for media and entertainment companies read more from our members messages from our geekwire members. become a golden geek, super geek or galactic geek to put your message on the home page for the year. alvarez & marsal (a&m) – delivering high-impact consulting services that improve shareholder value. sqoop — news. before it’s news. james newell, voyager capital: voyager loves supporting those shining a light on our incredible ecosystem. kalungi: growth-as-a-service for b2b saas companies reverb – startup with people: build your healthy, inclusive culture. communique pr is proud to be a geekwire member! sorse technology inc: a better technology for your cbd, thc or terpenes products scott moore, ad lightning: stop bad ads! northern trust: tech-optimized, best-in-class wealth management rws moravia localization and translation services for a digital world focal pllc: providing strategic and tech-savvy counsel for startups and established leaders. kk strategies: protecting and promoting great ideas. derek baughman, comdata: driven, goal-focused, both personal and team articulate presenter, diligent listener. new tech northwest: join us in the heart of the northwest’s tech community kellan carter, ignition partners: early stage enterprise technology venture capital about about geekwire contact us ask about advertising send us a tip apply for startup spotlight apply for geek of the week become a geekwire member join our startup list reprints and permissions follow geekwire newsletters catch every headline in your inbox email address subscribe geekwire daily - top headlines daily geekwire weekly - most-read stories of the week, delivered sunday breaking news alerts - important news as it happens geekwire space & science - weekly headlines from alan boyle, award-winning aerospace and science editor geekwire podcasts — weekly update with our latest audio episodes geekwire mid-week update — most-read stories so far this week, delivered wednesday geekwire local deals — special offers for pacific northwest area readers geekwire apps ios android apple news google play newsstand geekwire developer blog return to top of page privacy policy | terms of use © 2011-2020 geekwire, llc