menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies gemini gemini ranking the zodiac signs by who is most compatible with a gemini jennifer meade this is what it means to love a gemini kirsten corley what it means to love a gemini sophie wrenfield don’t fall in love with a gemini kirsten corley 20 irreplaceable life lessons i’ve learned from my gemini mom marianna sharktooth 9 brutal truths about dating a gemini as written by a gemini casey imafidon 9 little known reasons why geminis are the most likely to be serial killers eric redding latest gemini articles these are the zodiac signs everyone loves to hate lacey ramburger “ sadly, the number of songs talking about two-faced geminis aren’t doing you any favors. these are the 5 zodiac signs who are perfect for a summer fling lacey ramburger “ a sagittarius is playful, hilarious, and never likes to take things too seriously. how venus in gemini will make each zodiac sign explore their romantic options cleopatra jade “ venus left her home sign taurus and is ready to have an adventure after being in her comfort zone for the last month. now that this celestial body is in gemini, we will be open to exploring the possibilities in our love life. what to expect from 2019’s gemini season based on your zodiac sign a.t. nunez “ with the upsides of wanting to connect more comes the downside of wanting to disassociate and retreat from the world. this is typical with gemini energy because what goes up will eventually crash and burn right back down. new years resolutions for your zodiac element kelly peacock “ remember: you’re growing. let it happen. this is why you should never date a gemini sarah dowell “ he changed his mind. he changed his mind about loving me, just like he changed his mind about everything else in the fucking world. here’s exactly why you’re lucky to have a gemini in your life andrea davis “ they are one in a million, and have so much to offer the world. here’s everything you need to expect about the change that will occur under the gemini new moon kristin fehrman “ big projects will come to fruition, you’ll gain confidence to use your voice, and things that used to scare you won’t any longer. ranking the zodiac signs by who is most compatible with a gemini jennifer meade “ 3. aries: fire sign meets air sign. one of the most thriving and fast-paced duos. it’s gemini season which means the gemini constellation can not be seen in the night sky holly riordan “ if you looked up at the sky tonight, you would think gemini could be seen clearly since it’s currently gemini season from may 20th until june 20th — but you would be wrong. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.