skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources general writing tips setting freelance rates: hourly or per-project? october 2, 2019 by miranda marquit 23 comments one of the most difficult aspects of freelancing is trying to put a dollar amount on what you're worth. here are some thoughts on setting freelance rates. note: this was one of my earliest posts on … continue reading about setting freelance rates: hourly or per-project? the writer’s guide to success may 31, 2016 by miranda marquit 2 comments looking for a little help when it comes to finding a writer's guide to success? the folks over at onblastblog.com put together this massive -- useful -- infographic to help you with your writing … continue reading about the writer’s guide to success 3 reasons to participate in nanowrimo — even if you don’t write fiction november 3, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment even if you don't normally write fiction, you can benefit when you participate in nanowrimo. welcome to november! as a writer, there is no way to avoid nanowrimo in november. as a freelancer -- and … continue reading about 3 reasons to participate in nanowrimo — even if you don’t write fiction [video] how to improve your writing september 25, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment after a few months of craziness, and trying to figure out what to do with myself, i'm getting back to my online freelance writing videos. since my last video, i've discovered periscope. i'll use … continue reading about [video] how to improve your writing almost any freelance writer can benefit from composition 101 june 9, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment almost every aspiring freelance writer i know asks me how to improve. one of the best things you can do is take a composition class. it's true that one of the best things you can do as a freelance … continue reading about almost any freelance writer can benefit from composition 101 10 words you don’t need to use in your writing may 19, 2015 by miranda marquit 2 comments want to give your writing a boost? try getting rid of these unnecessary words. i constantly try to improve my writing. i struggle sometimes, just like everyone else. when i read a post on mashable … continue reading about 10 words you don’t need to use in your writing go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 8 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com