video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map gene marks contributor president of the marks group follow about gene marks gene marks is a cpa and owner of the marks group pc, a ten-person technology and financial consulting firm located near philadelphia founded in 1994. more from gene marks crisis management does sheryl crow really use one square of toilet paper at a time? knowing the answer may actually help your cash flow. 4 min read finance the 1 reason you should never buy individual stocks in these volatile markets, it's important to remember what your business really is. 4 min read finance why does warren buffett always pay in cash? the answer is both simple and important for your company's future. 4 min read news and trends sports talk in the office could be discriminatory against women is it, as one hr expert suggests, a "gateway to more laddish behavior"? 3 min read success why is a 40-year-old tractor so attractive to so many business owners? on the farm (and in the office), experience shows us that sometimes newer isn't better. 4 min read lifestyle why did wework's adam neumann "flee" from new york? he needed to escape the "negative energy." shouldn't you? 3 min read news and trends why did philadelphia's libraries just eliminate late fees? it's about better understanding your customers, and all businesses could learn something from it. 3 min read news and trends be careful, millennials: saying 'ok boomer' could get you in trouble. discrimination works both ways. 4 min read growth strategies why does novelist jeffrey archer use an hourglass when he writes? it's a productivity tool that's worked since antiquity. 3 min read technology have you been saved by ransomware's superman? he's rescued hundreds of thousands, and asks for very little 4 min read success why does this ceo insist on taking job candidates out for breakfast? it's not about the bacon. 3 min read leadership something happened in 146 bc that significantly affects your business today a moment in history will help your appreciate your competitors. 3 min read finance why are bay area restaurateurs afraid to charge credit-card fees? don't be fearful. just give choices. 4 min read marketing was this the worst sales promotion in the history of sales promotions? hoover made a whopping mistake back in the '90s. would you do the same now? 4 min read running a business is it time to get rid of that disappointing employee? the phillies recently demoted their underperforming third baseman, maikel franco. should you take a play from their book? 4 min read 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 ... 12 company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account