$25 cad from lorraine create an account and claim lorraine's gift of $25 cad to get work done on freelancer.com what kind of work can i get done? how does "anything you want" sound? we have experts representing every technical, professional, and creative field. post a project just give us the details about the work you need completed, and our freelancers will get it done faster, better, and cheaper than you could possibly imagine. this includes: small jobs, large jobs, anything in between jobs that are on fixed price, or hourly terms work that requires specific skill sets, costs, or scheduling requirements. how does it work? post a project it's always free to post your project. you'll automatically begin to receive bids from our freelancers. alternatively, you can browse through the talent available on our site, and make a direct offer to a freelancer instead. choose the perfect freelancer browse freelancer profiles chat in real-time compare proposals and select the best one award your project and your freelancer goes to work pay when you are satisfied! pay safely using our milestone payment system - release payments according to a schedule of goals you set, or pay only upon completion. you are in control, so you get to make decisions. post a project still not convinced? check out the results! here are just some of the things you could get done on freelancer.com. for more completed projects, visit our project showcase. spaycer mobile app design designershed $ 200.00 3d photo-realistic architectural visualizations bobdenic $ 500.00 blueberry app design example sraishe $ 1000.00 design an app mockup herick05 $ 400.00 design a brofresco merchandise t-shirt jhepordo $ 200.00 design sublimation shirt for our brand. franstyas $ 60.00 box design for male grooming product! mariacastillo67 $ 400.00 design a car wrap advertisement on the bmw i3 vehicle jun01 $ 220.00 browse more projects english - us (international) help & support freelancer categories projects contests freelancers enterprise preferred freelancer program project management local jobs showcase api for developers about about us how it works security investor sitemap quotes news terms privacy policy terms and conditions copyright policy code of conduct fees and charges apps --- registered users --- total jobs posted freelancer ® is a registered trademark of freelancer technology pty limited (acn 142 189 759) copyright © 2020 freelancer technology pty limited (acn 142 189 759)