back to udemy login sign up back to udemy sign up login home blog stories company careers press insights, ideas, and stories all #irl students instructors ideas & opinions udemy news udemy for business social innovation march 8, 2020 celebrating international women’s day 2020 “i like to learn that's an art and a science” katherine johnson equal rights for women has come a long way since the first international women’s day on march 8, 1908 first-wave feminism in the... august 9, 2019 meet udemy’s 2019 interns! this article was written by summer intern irene suarez from ping pong tournaments to friday lunch outings, we interns made the most of our time here at udemy with a total of twenty interns... june 20, 2019 instructor spotlight: alexandra cote from teaching english classes to elementary school kids to creating an interactive learning experience for over 25,000 students, alexandra cote never fails to find unique ways to develop her own... june 17, 2019 student story: fernando alvarado-sandoval fernando alvarado-sandoval lives and works in the san francisco bay area with his wife and two kids although he's currently a technical support specialist, fernando is using udemy to brush up on... june 11, 2019 udemy featured in hotly anticipated 2019 internet trends report for more than 20 years, the arrival of mary meeker’s internet trends report has been an eagerly anticipated event as one of the first investors in internet-based businesses, venture capitalist... april 17, 2019 learning is worth the investment, and the numbers back it up as a society, we spend hundreds of billions of dollars measuring the return on our financial assets yet, at the same time, we still haven’t found convincing ways of measuring the return on our... darren shimkus february 22, 2019 february 22, 2019: friday news roundup we’re giving robot news a break this week and focusing on the human brain instead put on some soft music, get comfy, and sleep your way to learning(sort of)! this is the fastest-growing six-figure job in america — and it doesn't require a degree there’s a reason people flock to udemy to learn how to make... news roundup february 15, 2019 february 15, 2019: friday news roundup welcome to another weekend, roundup readers! are you still feeling the valentine’s day glow well, you’re gonna love this week’s articles! 😂 should you take that promotion well, maybe is conventional thinking changing about grabbing any promotion you can get we shared an article last week about telling... news roundup february 8, 2019 february 8, 2019: friday news roundup so much to dig into this week of course, we’ve got robots-at-work stories, but we’ve also got advice for those who don’t want a promotion as well as advice for those who’ve gotten the promotion but without a raise if you can make it to the end, we’ll help you settle your distracted mind white-collar... news roundup february 6, 2019 #irl: better budgeting with 5 habits this article was written by udemy instructor chris haroun if you’re like many people, you don’t give a second thought to buying your daily coffee and you find ways to justify picking trendy, brand-name headphones when a less expensive model might serve your needs just as well but while we all need and... february 5, 2019 we’re excited to welcome gregg coccari as our new ceo! we’re excited to welcome gregg coccari as our new ceo gregg brings more than 30 years of leadership experience to udemy and previously held ceo positions at stella and chewy’s, futuredontics, netquote, and teleflora we are happy to welcome gregg as our new leader to further accelerate udemy’s mission of... february 1, 2019 february 1, 2019: friday news roundup we hope you had a great week, but it couldn’t have been any better than the one we just spent here at udemy employees from around the world converged in san francisco for our annual company retreat to plan and strategize for the year ahead among the highlights was our first-ever udemy women’s summit meanwhile,... news roundup january 29, 2019 to close the skills gap, let go of these 5 myths before we can devise effective solutions to fix the skills gap, we need to dispel several myths and misunderstandings it’s well-documented that companies are struggling to hire enough new workers, but historically low unemployment is only part of the problem the bigger challenge is finding people who... shelley osborne january 25, 2019 january 25, 2019: friday news roundup happy friday to all this week’s roundup brings you the dark side of shorter work weeks, relief from email overload, the latest in self-flying planes, and fitness tips to boost your work day ‘it isn’t nirvana’: how four founders managed a four-day workweek a shorter work week sounds like a viable idea in... news roundup january 21, 2019 #irl: how to stress less in 2019 this article was written by udemy instructor gregory caremans picture this: you’re putting on running shoes to blow off steam after a particularly stressful day you haven’t exercised since the last time you felt stressed, about a month ago after jogging a few miles, you feel refreshed and tell yourself, “i need... #irl january 18, 2019 january 18, 2019: friday news roundup lots of good stuff in the roundup this week if you want to improve your memory, set better goals, or relocate to another country, read on! and we wrap things up with one example of robots getting fired for doing a lousy job a leaky memory may be a good thing it may sound counterintuitive, but sometimes you need to... news roundup january 14, 2019 udemy instructor spotlight: amani abbas a passionate teacher and coder, amani abbas has five courses on udemy with nearly 2,000 students, but, as you’ll read below, her ambition and impact go far beyond our platform she’s using her expertise to help more arab women learn about programming and launch their own careers name: amani abbas location:... january 11, 2019 january 11, 2019: friday news roundup happy friday, folks good to have you back here for more end-of-week reading we’ve got stuff about having a positive effect on others, buckling down to work when you’re unmotivated, and networking as an introvert and more! ces 2019: it’s the year of virtual assistants and 5g if you’re not familiar with... news roundup posts navigation 1 2 3 4 5 … 39 all #irl students instructors ideas & opinions udemy news udemy for business social innovation udemy for business become an instructor mobile apps about us careers blog topics support affiliate english copyright @ 2020 udemy, inc. terms privacy policy and cookie policy intellectual property