meyerweb.com main content navigation links footer archives css toolbox writing speaking leftovers feeds about this site get static published 5 days ago if you are in charge of a web site that provides even slightly important information, or important services, it’s time to get static. i’m thinking here of sites for places like health departments (and pretty much all government services), hospitals and clinics, utility services, food delivery and ordering, and i’m sure there are more that haven’t occurred to me. as much as you possibly can, get it down to static html and css and maybe a tiny bit of enhancing js, and pare away every byte you can. because too many sites are already crashing because their cmses can’t keep up with the traffic surges. and too many sites are using dynamic frameworks that drain mobile batteries and shut out people with older browsers. that’s annoying and counter-productive in the best of times, but right now, it’s unacceptable. this is not the time for “well, this is as performant as our stack gets, so i guess users will have to live with it”. performance isn’t just something to aspire to any more. right now, in some situations, performance could literally be life-saving to a user, or their family. we’re in this to serve our users. the best service you can render at this moment is to make sure they can use your site or service, not get 502/bad gateway or a two-minute 20%-battery-drain page render. everything should take several back seats to this effort. i can’t tell you how best to get static—only you can figure that out. maybe for you, getting static means using very aggressive server caching and a cache-buster approach to updating info. maybe it means using some kind of static-render plugin for your cms. maybe is means accelerating a planned migration to a static-site cms like jekyll or eleventy or grav. maybe it means saving pages as html from your browser and hand-assembling a static copy of your site for now. there are a lot of ways to do this, but whatever way you choose, do it now. published sunday, march 22nd, 2020 categorized under commentary, web 13 responses so far monday, march 23rd, 2020 12:39am nevin lyne wrote in to say... for fast deployment to convert all or most of a site to serve a majority of page visits as static caches pages from a global cdn look at clouldflare, even using their free plan, and implement a page rule as talked about here: https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/en-us/articles/360021023712-best-practices-speed-up-your-site-with-custom-caching-via-cloudflare-page-rules if you are wordpress powered, here are some specific instructions: https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/en-us/articles/236166048-caching-static-html-with-wordpress-woocommerce if you are craft cms powered considered using a plugin like: https://plugins.craftcms.com/blitz along with cloudflare. not only does this move all more most of your site to being static serviced, but also cached and served from a global network of 150+ data centers, and again all of this works even with cloudflare’s free plan level. monday, march 23rd, 2020 7:22am derhuerst wrote in to say... you can use wget -r to download you web page recursively. there are also more options for domains allowed to visit recursively, relative links in the html, etc. doesn‘t work with very dynamic single page apps though. monday, march 23rd, 2020 8:13am pingback received from get static – paulfosterdesign […] get static, meyerweb.com […] monday, march 23rd, 2020 9:14am pingback received from get static – roel van der ven […] eric meyer captures it nicely i think: get static. […] monday, march 23rd, 2020 11:58am brian wrote in to say... your site isn’t static why should we listen to you? tuesday, march 24th, 2020 11:41am eric meyer wrote in to say... brian, three reasons: most of the site is static. wordpress only manages the blog portions; everything else is, as the masthead indicates, hand made with love. i had thought the wp sections were cached, but your comment prompted me to double-check and i had apparently disabled caching at some point. the caching is now back on. thanks for the nudge! even if the previous two weren’t true, i’m not providing critical information to anyone from any part of this site, which means the advice in the post doesn’t precisely apply. fortunately, the only real dynamism here happens on the server side in cms calls, and my pages are, on average, about 10% as heavy as the overall web average. but even at that, being as static as possible is a good thing, which is why caching is in effect. and finally, even if none of the above were true, good advice does not require a lived example. so even if meyerweb was a client-side-rendered site pulling content out of an overloaded cms to serve critical information to the general public, the advice would be worth listening to. never let purity get in the way of growth. wednesday, march 25th, 2020 11:52am louis wrote in to say... exact words for why i do what i do. we need more people working in this direction. thanks eric! thursday, march 26th, 2020 1:11pm czar wrote in to say... solid advice! i agree, now is the time to keep crucial pages fast and simple. cmses empower the publisher, but they’re often implemented at the expense of the user. our current situation only highlights those cms-triggered issues. thursday, march 26th, 2020 1:56pm yutt wrote in to say... it’s funny. i first found your blog landing here: https://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/2007/04/18/reset-reasoning/ and i thought wow, this guy must be an authority now, after 13 years, he must be into something really sophisticated. 2007 and already busy with ie7 and css hacks and that stuff. and then i looked for your latest post, and you recommend to go static and stop using dynamic technologies to save battery .. cool. i really liked it! thursday, march 26th, 2020 2:31pm david roessli wrote in to say... couldn’t agree more. that’s the reason i am/was a long time fan of movable type’s approach of generating static html files that can be rsynced to the prod sever :) stay safe and healthy eric. friday, march 27th, 2020 7:39am mike crittenden wrote in to say... for the record, grav is not a static site generator. it just uses flat files as the data store instead of a database. actual page loads are dynamic and require php, unless you do something nonstandard like exporting the website to static html. https://www.phase2technology.com/blog/grav-cms-is-not-a-static-site-generator friday, march 27th, 2020 8:04am phil rae wrote in to say... one thing you didn’t mention is that running statically can save money for these often cash strapped vital services. you can serve tens of thousands of hits per second on the cheapest ec2 server or for free on github or an s3 bucket (well almost free). but run a cms without caching and you’ll be bumping up the server specs massively to cope – both the web sever and the database server. this can be a huge expense. in addition, the security risks cms can open up if not well managed is not worth it, especially in a critical scenario that these vital services are there for. a static site has dramatically less vectors of attack. friday, march 27th, 2020 11:04am pingback received from march 27, 2020: my weekly roundup of web design and development news […] information and resources from healthcare and government sites, it’s time for those sites to get static, says eric meyer. sites using content management systems (cms) are crashing from the surge in […] leave a comment trackback url comments rss feed name e-mail (required but not displayed) uri management reserves the right to edit or remove any comment, especially when abusive or irrelevant to the topic at hand. html allowed: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <s> <strong> <pre class=""> <kbd> your comment (markdown supported) comment preview if you're satisfied with what you've written, then go ahead... sidestep previous entry: trying to work from home feeds posts: rss 2.0 rss 0.92 atom comments: rss 2.0 ← trying to work from home main identity archipelago twitter facebook flickr github dribbble facebook linkedin other projects an event apart rebecca’s gift complex spiral consulting css-discuss microformats s5 the excuse of the day is failure of the lighting system all contents of this site, unless otherwise noted, are ©1993-2020 eric a. and kathryn s. meyer. all rights reserved. "thoughts from eric" is powered by the übercool wordpress.