nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop start planning your next adventure here it can be hard to know where to start when planning your dream trip. what’s the first step? what’s the second? third? fourth? travel can seem like a daunting subject with so much information available and, the longer you go away, the more things you seem to have to think about. i want to make planning your next gap year, family vacation, around the world, or backpacking trip simple and easy. on this page, you’ll find a curated list of the best articles on this site related to planning a trip – whether it’s a two week vacation to italy, or a year-long trip around the world. the tips are broken down into categories so you can find the information you need fast and effectively. get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare find affordable accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel my budget city guides my top content travel is more than just getting up and going. it’s about being knowledgeable so you can travel better, cheaper, and longer. below you will find links to articles i’ve written that deal with planning your trip and other general advice so your total vacation is as amazing as it can be. these articles are relevant to any trip – no matter how long it is! how to find cheap flights how to find cheap accommodation how to choose a backpack how to get an rtw ticket 17 steps for planning a trip my ultimate packing guide how to buy travel insurance 11 tips for new travelers my favorite hostels solo female travel tips how to pick the right travel credit card 14 travel scams to avoid 15 ways to work overseas 14 key preparation tips too many places: how to deal with ovewhelming options 8 budget vacation ideas how to make your trip 10x more interesting stay in europe more than 90 days get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site