skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress make wordpress whether you’re a budding developer, a designer, or just like helping out, we’re always looking for people to help make wordpress even better. if you want to get involved in wordpress, this is the place to be. we’ve got blogs for each contributor group, general news, and upcoming events. meetings team updates five for the future there are many different ways for you to get involved with wordpress: core the corecore core is the set of software required to run wordpress. the core development team builds wordpress. team makes wordpress. whether you’re a seasoned phpphp php (recursive acronym for php: hypertext preprocessor) is a widely-used open source general-purpose scripting language that is especially suited for web development and can be embedded into html. http://php.net/manual/en/intro-whatis.php. developer or are just learning to code, we’d love to have you on board. you can write code, fix bugs, debate decisions, and help with development. next meeting: editor triage (+15 more) mon mar 30 13:00:00 2020 utc (3 days from now) at #core-editor on slack meta the metameta meta is a term that refers to the inside workings of a group. for us, this is the team that works on internal wordpress sites like wordcamp central and make wordpress. team makes wordpress.orgwordpress.org the community site where wordpress code is created and shared by the users. this is where you can download the source code for wordpress core, plugins and themes as well as the central location for community conversations and organization. https://wordpress.org/, provides support, and builds tools for use by all the contributor groups. if you want to help make wordpress.org better, sign up for updates from the meta blog. next meeting: meta team biweekly chat (+1 more) wed apr 8 22:00:00 2020 utc (2 weeks from now) at #meta on slack hosting we work to improve wordpress’ end-user experience across hosting environments through industry collaboration and user education. come join us! next meeting: hosting team weekly chat (+1 more) wed apr 1 09:00:00 2020 utc (4 days from now) at #hosting-community on slack cli wp-cliwp-cli wp-cli is the command line interface for wordpress, used to do administrative and development tasks in a programmatic way. the project page is http://wp-cli.org/ https://make.wordpress.org/cli/ is the official command line tool for interacting with and managing your wordpress sites. next meeting: wp-cli weekly chat tue mar 31 16:00:00 2020 utc (4 days from now) at #cli on slack marketing our vision for the marketing team is to be the go-to resource for strategy and content for other wordpress teams. next meeting: marketing team weekly chat wed apr 1 15:00:00 2020 utc (5 days from now) at #marketing on slack tv the tv team reviews and approves every video submitted to wordpress.tv. they also help wordcamps with video post-production and are responsible for the captioning and subtitling of published videos. reviewing videos is a great way to learn about wordpress and help the community: experience is not required to get involved. next meeting: wordpress.tv team weekly chat thu apr 2 15:00:00 2020 utc (6 days from now) at #wptv on slack test the test team patrols flow across the entire wordpress ecosystem on every device we have at hand. we test, document, and report on the wordpress user experience. through continuous dogfooding and visual records, we understand not only what is wrong, but also what is right. we immerse ourselves in the context of what we are making and champion user experience. training the training team creates downloadable lesson plans and related materials for instructors to use in a live workshop environment. if you enjoy teaching people how to use and build stuff for wordpress, immediately stop what you’re doing and join our team! next meeting: training team weekly chat thu apr 2 13:00:00 2020 utc (6 days from now) at #training on slack community if you’re interested in organizing a meetupmeetup all local/regional gatherings that are officially a part of the wordpress world but are not wordcamps are organized through https://www.meetup.com/. a meetup is typically a chance for local wordpress users to get together and share new ideas and seek help from one another. searching for ‘wordpress’ on meetup.com will help you find options in your area. or a wordcampwordcamp wordcamps are casual, locally-organized conferences covering everything related to wordpress. they're one of the places where the wordpress community comes together to teach one another what they’ve learned throughout the year and share the joy. learn more., the community blog is a great place to get started. there are groups working to support events, to create outreach and training programs, and generally support the community. next meeting: community team bimonthly chat (europe, africa & asia-pacific) (+1 more) thu apr 2 11:00:00 2020 utc (6 days from now) at #community-team on slack design the design group is focused on the designing and developing the user interface. it’s a home for designers and uxers alike. there are regular discussions about mockups, design, and user testing. next meeting: design ticket triage (+2 more) mon mar 30 18:30:00 2020 utc (3 days from now) at #design on slack plugins if you are a pluginplugin a plugin is a piece of software containing a group of functions that can be added to a wordpress website. they can extend functionality or add new features to your wordpress websites. wordpress plugins are written in the php programming language and integrate seamlessly with wordpress. these can be free in the wordpress.org plugin directory https://wordpress.org/plugins/ or can be cost-based plugin from a third-party developer, subscribe to the plugin review team blog to keep up with the latest updates, find resources, and learn about any issues around plugin development. themes the theme review team reviews and approves every theme submitted to the wordpress theme repository. reviewing themes sharpens your own theme development skills. you can help out and join the discussion on the blog. next meeting: block based themes chat (+2 more) wed apr 1 16:00:00 2020 utc (5 days from now) at #themereview on slack documentation good documentation lets people help themselves when they get stuck. the docs team is responsible for creating documentation and is always on the look-out for writers. the blog has discussion around the team’s current projects. next meeting: docs team weekly chat mon mar 30 15:00:00 2020 utc (3 days from now) at #docs on slack support answering a question in the support forums or irc is one of the easiest ways to start contributing. everyone knows the answer to something! this blog is the place for discussion of issues around support. next meeting: support team weekly chat thu apr 2 17:00:00 2020 utc (6 days from now) at #forums on slack polyglots wordpress is used all over the world and in many different languages. if you’re a polyglot, help out by translating wordpress into your own language. you can also assist with creating the tools that make translations easier. next meeting: polyglots team chat (europe) (+2 more) wed apr 1 12:00:00 2020 utc (5 days from now) at #polyglots on slack accessibility the a11yaccessibility accessibility (commonly shortened to a11y) refers to the design of products, devices, services, or environments for people with disabilities. the concept of accessible design ensures both “direct access” (i.e. unassisted) and “indirect access” meaning compatibility with a person’s assistive technology (for example, computer screen readers). (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/accessibility) group provides accessibilityaccessibility accessibility (commonly shortened to a11y) refers to the design of products, devices, services, or environments for people with disabilities. the concept of accessible design ensures both “direct access” (i.e. unassisted) and “indirect access” meaning compatibility with a person’s assistive technology (for example, computer screen readers). (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/accessibility) expertise across the project. they make sure that wordpress corecore core is the set of software required to run wordpress. the core development team builds wordpress. and all of wordpress’ resources are accessible. next meeting: accessibility weekly bug scrub (+1 more) fri apr 3 15:00:00 2020 utc (7 days from now) at #accessibility on slack mobile the mobile team builds the iosios the operating system used on iphones and ipads. and android apps. lend them your java, objective-c, or swift skills. the team also needs designers, uxux ux is an acronym for user experience - the way the user uses the ui. think ‘what they are doing’ and less about how they do it. experts, and testers to give users an smooth experience on every device. tide tide is a series of automated tests run against every pluginplugin a plugin is a piece of software containing a group of functions that can be added to a wordpress website. they can extend functionality or add new features to your wordpress websites. wordpress plugins are written in the php programming language and integrate seamlessly with wordpress. these can be free in the wordpress.org plugin directory https://wordpress.org/plugins/ or can be cost-based plugin from a third-party and theme in the directory and then displays phpphp php (recursive acronym for php: hypertext preprocessor) is a widely-used open source general-purpose scripting language that is especially suited for web development and can be embedded into html. http://php.net/manual/en/intro-whatis.php. compatibility and test errors/warnings in the directory. next meeting: tide weekly chat tue apr 7 19:00:00 2020 utc (2 weeks from now) at #tide on slack about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.