back to udemy login sign up back to udemy sign up login home blog stories company careers press insights, ideas, and stories all #irl students instructors ideas & opinions udemy news udemy for business social innovation march 8, 2020 celebrating international women’s day 2020 “i like to learn that's an art and a science” katherine johnson equal rights for women has come a long way since the first international women’s day on march 8, 1908 first-wave feminism in the... august 9, 2019 meet udemy’s 2019 interns! this article was written by summer intern irene suarez from ping pong tournaments to friday lunch outings, we interns made the most of our time here at udemy with a total of twenty interns... june 20, 2019 instructor spotlight: alexandra cote from teaching english classes to elementary school kids to creating an interactive learning experience for over 25,000 students, alexandra cote never fails to find unique ways to develop her own... june 17, 2019 student story: fernando alvarado-sandoval fernando alvarado-sandoval lives and works in the san francisco bay area with his wife and two kids although he's currently a technical support specialist, fernando is using udemy to brush up on... june 11, 2019 udemy featured in hotly anticipated 2019 internet trends report for more than 20 years, the arrival of mary meeker’s internet trends report has been an eagerly anticipated event as one of the first investors in internet-based businesses, venture capitalist... april 17, 2019 learning is worth the investment, and the numbers back it up as a society, we spend hundreds of billions of dollars measuring the return on our financial assets yet, at the same time, we still haven’t found convincing ways of measuring the return on our... darren shimkus march 8, 2020 celebrating international women’s day 2020 “i like to learn that's an art and a science” katherine johnson equal rights for women has come a long way since the first international women’s day on march 8, 1908 first-wave feminism in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries tackled discrimination on the basis of sex in many locations, on many... august 9, 2019 meet udemy’s 2019 interns! this article was written by summer intern irene suarez from ping pong tournaments to friday lunch outings, we interns made the most of our time here at udemy with a total of twenty interns from all over the world, we learned and grew in personal and professional ways throughout the internship program, while... july 31, 2019 5 lesser known instruments to learn on uncommon musical instrument day today (july 31) marks uncommon musical instrument day, a special day to appreciate the weird, bizarre, and truly extraordinary instruments of the world—from the water-powered hydrolauphone to the touchless theremin if you’ve ever imagined yourself blowing a didgeridoo on an australian beach, today is a great... june 20, 2019 instructor spotlight: alexandra cote from teaching english classes to elementary school kids to creating an interactive learning experience for over 25,000 students, alexandra cote never fails to find unique ways to develop her own skills and educate others she aims to become an influencer in order to spread her knowledge and motivate the online... june 17, 2019 student story: fernando alvarado-sandoval fernando alvarado-sandoval lives and works in the san francisco bay area with his wife and two kids although he's currently a technical support specialist, fernando is using udemy to brush up on his graphic design skills in pursuit of a more creative career between raising a family and working full-time, fernando... june 11, 2019 udemy featured in hotly anticipated 2019 internet trends report for more than 20 years, the arrival of mary meeker’s internet trends report has been an eagerly anticipated event as one of the first investors in internet-based businesses, venture capitalist meeker established herself early on as a leading expert at spotting emerging trends she was on the morgan stanley team that... may 31, 2019 instructor spotlight: jessica brody on top of authoring more than 15 novels for teens, tweens, and adults, jessica brody pays her writing knowledge forward she turned her in-person writing workshops into dynamic online courses and now hears from students all over the world who attribute their successes, including some book deals, to the help she... may 14, 2019 tv meets irl: what workplace shows most resemble your workplace? sometimes work feels like a drama, sometimes more like a comedy our new “udemy snapshot: 2019 workplace happiness report” found that our workplaces can often resemble our favorite tv shows turns out, the way you perceive your office culture says a lot about your irl character so, are you a cersei lannister or a... udemy research may 11, 2019 how one mom fits in learning web development during nap time thirty-three-year-old tina lives in germany, takes care of her one-and-a-half-year-old son, and learns web development in her rare spare time she’s currently working through andrei neagoie's "the complete web developer in 2019: zero to mastery" and anthony alicea's "javascript - understanding the weird... may 3, 2019 star wars day 2019: may the learning be with you throw on your wookiee costume because tomorrow is that one special day of the year when you can wear your fuzzy onesie proudly—without side glances from neighbors (ok, we can’t promise you that last part) may the 4th, of course, marks star wars day, a commemorative day for fans of the classic movie franchise... may 1, 2019 4 ways we can avoid workplace burnout by cara brennan allamano, svp of people & places, udemy let’s face it: we all hit the wall sometimes our inboxes are overflowing, our calendars are packed, and the chat messages won’t stop but burnout is not a sustainable state of being learning and teaching are both awesome ways to recharge because they... april 17, 2019 learning is worth the investment, and the numbers back it up as a society, we spend hundreds of billions of dollars measuring the return on our financial assets yet, at the same time, we still haven’t found convincing ways of measuring the return on our investments in developing people and i get it: if my bank account pays me 1% a year, i can measure it to the penny... darren shimkus posts navigation 1 2 3 … 39 all #irl students instructors ideas & opinions udemy news udemy for business social innovation udemy for business become an instructor mobile apps about us careers blog topics support affiliate english copyright @ 2020 udemy, inc. terms privacy policy and cookie policy intellectual property