back to udemy login sign up back to udemy sign up login home blog stories company careers press insights, ideas, and stories all #irl students instructors ideas & opinions udemy news udemy for business social innovation march 8, 2020 celebrating international women’s day 2020 “i like to learn that's an art and a science” katherine johnson equal rights for women has come a long way since the first international women’s day on march 8, 1908 first-wave feminism in the... august 9, 2019 meet udemy’s 2019 interns! this article was written by summer intern irene suarez from ping pong tournaments to friday lunch outings, we interns made the most of our time here at udemy with a total of twenty interns... june 20, 2019 instructor spotlight: alexandra cote from teaching english classes to elementary school kids to creating an interactive learning experience for over 25,000 students, alexandra cote never fails to find unique ways to develop her own... june 17, 2019 student story: fernando alvarado-sandoval fernando alvarado-sandoval lives and works in the san francisco bay area with his wife and two kids although he's currently a technical support specialist, fernando is using udemy to brush up on... june 11, 2019 udemy featured in hotly anticipated 2019 internet trends report for more than 20 years, the arrival of mary meeker’s internet trends report has been an eagerly anticipated event as one of the first investors in internet-based businesses, venture capitalist... april 17, 2019 learning is worth the investment, and the numbers back it up as a society, we spend hundreds of billions of dollars measuring the return on our financial assets yet, at the same time, we still haven’t found convincing ways of measuring the return on our... darren shimkus february 25, 2015 udemy hosts xcode mobile design workshop in celebration of the new udemy course xcode for designers, instructor chris slowik led a live xcode mobile design workshop at udemy hq last week organized with the help of design&startups, around 25 designers joined chris as he discussed the fundamentals of creating a mobile design experience using xcode by... designlearningmobile february 18, 2015 guy kawasaki launches udemy course on entrepreneurship guy kawasaki, renowned silicon valley evangelist, advisor and investor, takes his entrepreneurship expertise to udemy and launches the essential guide to entrepreneurship by guy kawasaki guy has more than 30 years of real world experience and 12 published books on what it takes to create a successful business,... entrepreneurinfluencerslearning on your terms february 13, 2015 an evening of hr innovation: build the leaders of your organization the udemy for business team hosts quarterly hr innovators events to connect hr leaders and professionals at the bay area’s best companies, and share best practices for building and maintaining happy teams this week was the fourth event of the ongoing series, and the biggest event thus far more than 200 attendees... eventsinspirationleadershippeople innovators february 11, 2015 second phase of udemy international pricing on the heels of announcing our first phase of international pricing updating udemy’s mobile apps, we’re excited to share that the second phase is here: the introduction of british pound sterling now all students in the united kingdom (as designated by ip address) will see pounds sterling as the default currency... growthinternationalproduct newsuk february 6, 2015 udemy mobile app updates exciting news for all of our mobile users! we’ve had a couple great app releases this month here’s what’s new: udemy for ios v26 is now live in the app store! this release includes the following improvements: ability to register and log in using google+ internationalization: localized prices: course prices... mobileproduct newsudemy app february 5, 2015 udemy kicks off lunch roulette udemy is quickly growing last year we tripled our employee count and as new folks continually join the team, we want to ensure everyone has ample opportunity to get to know each other well udemy has a culture club, which is a group of employee culture ambassadors who plan fun activities they recently started a new... cultureemployee successfun stuffsan francisco february 2, 2015 udemy serves at glide at udemy, we regularly organize group volunteer outings last week, about 25 members of the team joined the wonderful glide staff to serve lunch to more than 600 of san francisco’s homeless and hungry the kitchen assembly line was buzzing and the teamwork was in full force as we added our dishes to the quickly... employeesinspirationsan franciscovolunteering january 15, 2015 announcing partnership with the drucker institute exciting news! we’ve partnered with the drucker institute, a social enterprise based at claremont graduate university, to deliver a series of management courses based on peter drucker’s timeless wisdom the courses are available on a wide variety of mobile and desktop devices, and ideal for management... online learningpartners january 13, 2015 announcing first phase of international pricing more than two thirds of udemy students live outside of the united states, so it’s long been a priority to make the learning experience on udemy as global (and localized!) as possible to that end, we’re excited to announce the first phase of international currency pricing! here’s the scoop: by january 31st,... growthinternationalproduct news posts navigation 1 … 37 38 39 all #irl students instructors ideas & opinions udemy news udemy for business social innovation udemy for business become an instructor mobile apps about us careers blog topics support affiliate english copyright @ 2020 udemy, inc. terms privacy policy and cookie policy intellectual property