small business trends news • resources • advice small business spotlight 73 shares | 1 72 1 1 email page 73 shares 1 72 1 1 would you like your business to be featured in a small biz spotlight piece? each week we publish a new profile of a successful small business, called a small biz spotlight. to apply, read the faqs below right, and complete the application form below. become a spotlight business complete the form below, please. note: if you wish to complete the answers offline before filling in this form, download this .doc file. frequently asked questions what is a small biz spotlight piece? a small biz spotlight article is editorial coverage of an individual small business, offering inspiration and education for other business owners. our team of editors and journalists love to profile small businesses so your peers can learn from you. click here to see past examples. what businesses are eligible? small businesses with 0 to 100 employees, as well as solo entrepreneurs, are eligible. can be located anywhere in the world, in any industry. how do you decide which businesses to spotlight? please fill out the questionnaire on this page. we do an initial screening. then we will contact you either via email or phone to supplement the questionnaire. we choose based on (1) how interesting your answers are, and (2) how useful the information will be to other readers. lessons learned are always helpful. what about the images? images can make all the difference. images are part of the content. the best images for a spotlight are spontaneous — the kind of image you’d upload to facebook or twitter. we’re looking for images of the “team in action.” behind-the-scenes images: your offices, the team at lunch enjoying your favorite lunch food, a shot of the smiling “you” in a t-shirt with your company logo on it, a picture of the company mascot, or even the view out your office window. is there a fee to get a spotlight? absolutely not! all spotlights are editorial coverage. we will never ask a small business to pay for an individual spotlight. how do i submit my business for a spotlight? it’s easy. just fill out the questionnaire on this page. can my business sponsor the series? absolutely. sponsorship opportunities are best for larger companies that wish to support the small business community. if your company would like to sponsor the small business spotlight series for a period of time, please visit our advertise page. small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit