back to udemy login sign up back to udemy sign up login home blog stories company careers press insights, ideas, and stories all #irl students instructors ideas & opinions udemy news udemy for business social innovation march 8, 2020 celebrating international women’s day 2020 “i like to learn that's an art and a science” katherine johnson equal rights for women has come a long way since the first international women’s day on march 8, 1908 first-wave feminism in the... august 9, 2019 meet udemy’s 2019 interns! this article was written by summer intern irene suarez from ping pong tournaments to friday lunch outings, we interns made the most of our time here at udemy with a total of twenty interns... june 20, 2019 instructor spotlight: alexandra cote from teaching english classes to elementary school kids to creating an interactive learning experience for over 25,000 students, alexandra cote never fails to find unique ways to develop her own... june 17, 2019 student story: fernando alvarado-sandoval fernando alvarado-sandoval lives and works in the san francisco bay area with his wife and two kids although he's currently a technical support specialist, fernando is using udemy to brush up on... june 11, 2019 udemy featured in hotly anticipated 2019 internet trends report for more than 20 years, the arrival of mary meeker’s internet trends report has been an eagerly anticipated event as one of the first investors in internet-based businesses, venture capitalist... april 17, 2019 learning is worth the investment, and the numbers back it up as a society, we spend hundreds of billions of dollars measuring the return on our financial assets yet, at the same time, we still haven’t found convincing ways of measuring the return on our... darren shimkus april 12, 2019 april 12, 2019: friday news roundup it’s going to be a beautiful weekend we can already feel it kick things off with the roundup! chinese scientists have put human brain genes in monkeys—and yes, they may be smarter as if we weren’t worried enough about artificial intelligence outsmarting us humans, now we’ve gotta watch our backs for... news roundup april 5, 2019 april 5, 2019: friday news roundup happy friday to all! we hope this week’s stories will help put you in a positive mindset, so you can let go of perfectionism and use criticism to your advantage of course, we’ve also got stuff about how technology is reshaping our world, from “algoraves” to unfunny robots djs of the future don't spin... news roundup march 29, 2019 march 29, 2019: friday news roundup well, would ya look at that—we’ve hit friday again ease into your weekend with some reflection on weighing job opportunities, surviving crunch-time at work, and using drawing to improve your memory and more! should you always strive to work at the most ‘prestigious’ places well… there’s a tricky... news roundup march 22, 2019 march 22, 2019: friday news roundup today’s roundup looks to the past and the future, including a nearly obsolete office staple of yesteryear and one provocative example of a human-computer mindmeld the world’s first genderless ai voice is here listen now voice assistants developed by tech giants like google and apple default to a female... news roundup march 15, 2019 udemy instructor spotlight: alicia paz alicia paz, ma is a therapist, dbt (dialectical behavioral therapy) coach, and udemy instructor she’s no newbie to the platform, as alicia has been teaching on udemy since 2013 her dedication to providing students access to mental health coping skills goes so far as finishing the script for her second udemy... march 15, 2019 march 15, 2019: friday news roundup our thoughts are with the people of new zealand following the tragedy in christchurch we stand against hate and are incredibly sad that more innocent lives have been lost to ignorance with that, we bring you a very somber news roundup new quantum physics experiment suggests that reality isn't objective we’re... news roundup march 13, 2019 the upskilling imperative: why accomplishments alone won’t earn you a promotion too many employees get promoted based on what they’ve done in the past, not because they have a proven aptitude for the next role this is especially true when individual contributors move into management positions my company’s research found overwhelming evidence that people are promoted into management... darren shimkus march 8, 2019 march 8, 2019: friday news roundup thanks for stopping by to read this week’s news we’ve got work advice for you, whether you are weighing the benefits of self-employment, feeling a mid-career crisis, losing friends after a promotion, or staring down a desk full of clutter and don’t miss your opportunity to get hired for a job doing whatever you... news roundup march 6, 2019 #irl: five tips to increase your confidence this article was written by udemy instructor alexa fischer we’re two months into the year do you still have the “new year, new you” mentality if not, it’s time for you to learn how to build unshakeable confidence why because that’s going to be the fuel to make your i-can-do-this mentality last here are... march 1, 2019 march 1, 2019: friday news roundup happy friday and welcome to the month of march! this week’s roundup includes a look at technology being developed to hack your brain and the inventions a tech luminary thinks will help create a better future in the meantime, quit obsessing over your mistakes! managers, coaches adjust to get most out of... news roundup february 27, 2019 who we are at udemy at udemy, we’re working toward an exciting mission, and we care a lot about how we achieve it our values guide how we do business—how we interact with each other internally as well as with the millions of instructors, students, and partners that make up our global udemy community so, what makes life at... careers february 27, 2019 5 lessons entrepreneurs can glean from their kids’ k-12 teachers remember that teacher you loved in second grade who was so honest and constructive in her advice be that kind of entrepreneur before transitioning into corporate learning and development, i was a classroom teacher in canada for almost a decade i spent most of that time teaching spanish and english to high... shelley osborne posts navigation 1 2 3 4 … 39 all #irl students instructors ideas & opinions udemy news udemy for business social innovation udemy for business become an instructor mobile apps about us careers blog topics support affiliate english copyright @ 2020 udemy, inc. terms privacy policy and cookie policy intellectual property