skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation home / articles / get static author robin rendle 1 comment join conversation published mar 26, 2020 eleventy performance static site generators personalized marketing with mailchimp in this piece, eric meyer argues that performance is more important than ever right now — especially for websites that contain critical information for the public: if you are in charge of a web site that provides even slightly important information, or important services, it’s time to get static. i’m thinking here of sites for places like health departments (and pretty much all government services), hospitals and clinics, utility services, food delivery and ordering, and i’m sure there are more that haven’t occurred to me. as much as you possibly can, get it down to static html and css and maybe a tiny bit of enhancing js, and pare away every byte you can. what eric means by “it’s time to get static” is that we need to serve regular ol’ html, css, and javascript files to the browser with server-side rendering. that way, our sites are faster and with fewer bottlenecks that can render the whole website useless. on this note, zach leatherman recently looked at 200 sites built with eleventy and found that the mean lighthouse performance score was 93.7! in other words: static site generators are gosh darn fast. and if that’s not a great reason to make the switch or to start learning about static site generators in general, then i don’t know what is. direct link → our learning partner need to learn about javascript web performance? frontend masters has a course all about javascript performance from steve kinney. it gets into optimizing render performance, splitting resources, and loading everything faster. need to learn about javascript web performance? frontend masters has a course all about javascript performance from steve kinney. it gets into optimizing render performance, splitting resources, and loading everything faster. comments james c. permalink to comment# march 27, 2020 i actually interpreted eric to mean pre-rendering, since server-side rendering would still leave a server vulnerable to resource exhaustion and database latency; whereas pre-rendering just means plain html, css, and non-critical js can be rapidly and effortlessly served by a cdn. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. get the css-tricks newsletter notify me of follow-up comments by email. copy and paste this code: micuno * leave this field empty all comments are held for moderation. we'll publish all comments that are on topic, not rude, and adhere to our code of conduct. you'll even get little stars if you do an extra good job. you may write comments in markdown. this is the best way to post any code, inline like `<div>this</div>` or multiline blocks within triple backtick fences (```) with double new lines before and after. want to tell us something privately, like pointing out a typo or stuff like that? contact us. we have a code of conduct. be cool. be helpful. the web is a big place. have fun. high five. related how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers