home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact menu home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact search close getting the train between granada, cordoba & seville in andalucia march 18, 2020 shing yoong i’m excited to share my latest trip to andalucia with you. it’s a region in the south of spain that serenades any visitor with a tide of magnificent architecture, natural beauty and sumptuous cuisine. travelling by train, this surprisingly simple and easy route explores three cities known together as the golden triangle of andalucia: granada, córdoba and seville. along this journey you’ll admire gothic, renaissance and moorish architecture, including the iconic alhambra palace. by day, explore each city by foot, and by night taste the region’s cultural and culinary offerings. this route is good for you if… you’re hankering to experience a blend of cultures, rich history, inspiring monuments, delicious food and fabulous weather. this route delivers that right from the get go until the very end. it’s also worth noting that you can do this rail journey the opposite way around by starting in seville and ending in granada. the only reason i opted to begin in granada was simply because the flight times were better and cheaper. though in my opinion, i think seville is the perfect place to end the trip since it’s larger and there’s a bit more to do and see. break-down of train journeys granada to córdoba | duration: 1h 40m | cost: 25 euros córdoba to seville | duration: 1h 15m | cost: 15 euros booking train tickets we booked our tickets from granada to córdoba through thetrainline.com before going because this leg of the journey was pricier. though to be honest, i don’t think the price varies very much in spain like it does in the uk so we didn’t save much by booking in advance. since córdoba and seville are closer to each other the tickets weren’t too expensive. we didn’t want to be tied down to a specific time so decided to purchase a ticket on the day of travel. there was a fast train which takes appropriately 45 minutes, but at almost double the price so we opted for the slower train which still only took 1h 15m anyway. recommended length of nights in each city granada: 2 nights córdoba: 2 nights seville: 3 nights a full week is a great length of time to see the highlights and soak up the vibe of each city. if you don’t have a week to spare, then you could do: granada x 2, córdoba x 1, seville x 2. you’ll still have time to fit in all the highlights and sample lots of tasty cuisine but you’ll have to skip the temptation of a lazy lie-in! i absolutely fell in love with córdoba, the only reason i’ve suggested less time there is because i’ve factored in your arrival and departure days at the airports – assuming you’re flying. granada in the foothills of the spectacular sierra nevada, where almond orchards and pine trees coat the lower slopes, lies granada. a city that has been strongly influenced by moorish aesthetic, in fact the moors ruled over granada longer than any other kingdom in spain – it was their last stronghold, and didn’t fall to the christians until 1492. the city is most famous for… the alhambra granada is famous for playing host to a spectacular fortress, palace and gardens complex called the alhambra. completed in stages under various muslim and christian, it remains one of the best-preserved moorish palaces in spain, especially in the wake of restoration efforts. after climbing the hill and entering the site, you can explore the show-stopping complex for hours – the charming gardens, water features and various buildings, complete with exquisitely detailed plaster carvings and tileworks. other highlights of granada granada cathedral is the one of largest and most visually spectacular cathedrals in spain. go inside and admire the ornate ceiling complete with huge corinthian columns, delicate stained glass windows and the almost entirely white interior which give it the nickname ‘cathedral of light’. mercado san agustin is an indoor food market situated just opposite the cathedral and houses a densely-packed cluster of stalls offering the freshest seafood, meat, fruit, vegetables and cheeses along with some of the finest quality olive oils and wines in the city. ensure to stop by at lunchtime and grab a seat at raw material restaurant for incredible seafood – the paella alone will make you wish you lived in granada. mirador san nicolás is the place for those classic sunset shots of the alhambra sprawled along a wooded hilltop with the dark sierra nevada mountains looming in the background. it’s a well-known spot, accessible via callejón de san cecilio, so expect crowds during peak seasons. tours in granada: looking for a guided city tour or queue jump to the alhambra? take a look at what’s available to book in granada. córdoba once the capital of the islamic empire in the west, with architectural treasures that have to be seen to be believed, córdoba exceeded all my expectations. furthermore, the vibe of the city is very different to granada and seville which by comparison feel european, whereas córdoba feels more like latin america with its cobbled alleyways and colourful buildings teamed with a gloriously relaxed atmosphere. the city is most famous for… cordoba mosque cathedral the crown jewel of the city is the córdoba mosque cathedral, it’s not only architecturally inspiring but also a doorway into the city’s fascinating history. after córdoba was conquered by muslims in the 700’s, the mosque was built atop a visigoth church that previously existed at the site. several hundred years later, after córdoba’s reconquest by spanish catholics, the mosque was converted into a huge cathedral. i won’t lie, it’s an odd juxtaposition but still a fascinating combination of two architectural styles – featuring a vast array of columns and arches common to mosques, and higher roofs, chapels and glittery alter pieces more common to cathedrals. i’ve never seen anything like it. other highlights of córdoba alcázar de los reyes cristianos or the ‘castle of the christian kings’ is where fernando and isabella lived in the castle for over eight years while they orchestrated the reconquest of granada. it was also in the alcazar that christopher columbus pitched his idea of looking for a western route to reach india. here you will find one of the most beautifully pruned gardens in europe. simply relax and admire the stunning work of a talented team of gardeners. roman-era bridge spans the guadalquivir river, and together with puerta del puente (gate of the bridge) and the calahorra tower it has been declared a site of cultural interest. in addition, it belongs to the historic centre of córdoba which has been declared a world heritage site. stroll around and take in one of the largest historical centres in europe with roman, arabic and christian structures side by side. picturesque narrow lanes, the famous patios of córdoba and small beautiful squares are to be seen everywhere. tours in córdoba: looking for theatre tickets, queue jumps or a grand tour of the city? take a look at what’s available to book in córdoba. seville the capital of andalucia, one of the most important cities in spain and its fourth largest with a population of almost two million people, seville has everything you could wish a big city to offer but with a surprisingly local feel. the city is most famous for… the real alcazar ahhh it’s tough to pick one because the city spoils you with exquisite attractions on almost every corner, but push come to shove, i’d say the real alcazar. it was modelled on the alhambra in granada but is better preserved because the palace is still in use today. trivia alert: some of you might recognise it as a film setting for game of thrones. other highlights of seville plaza de espana commands attentions with its dreamy medley of architectural styles, incredible tile work and ornate bridges within a picturesque park setting. we watched a display of flamenco dancing and you can also rent a boat which made the place feel reminiscent of venice – only much cheaper. i think this place was my favourite attraction in the whole of seville, don’t miss it. seville cathedral is an extraordinary (and enormous) building that serves as a bricks and mortar history lesson. the star attraction – the giralda bell tower – was the minaret of what was the great mosque when southern spain was under moorish rule. metropol parasol is a unique chance to see contemporary architecture by jürgen hermann mayer, the poster boy of outlandish designs. it’s huge, reportedly the largest wooden structure in the world. it’s nicknamed the mushroom but i think it looks more like a honeycomb but i’ll let you decide. it stays open late so it’s an easy attraction to squeeze in for nice views of city. watch flamenco to experience the style of dance so important to spanish culture that it was named a unesco intangible cultural heritage. there’s a good chance you might see dancing in some plazas but for an intimate experience book a show at casa de la guitarra, ‘the house of guitar’. tours in seville: looking for tickets to a flamenco show, queue jumps or a grand tour of the real alcazar? take a look at what’s available to book in seville. are you planning a train journey around andalucia? facebook twitter tumblr pinterest hi, i’m shing from the uk and i live in london. welcome to my travel blog – the culture map. you’ll find tips, guides, recommendations and the odd misadventure from my travels that span over 50 countries and 6 continents. i’ve written about many places, but in my archive there’s a strong focus on scandinavia and the arctic. prevpreviousnew york pizza guide: where to go for the city’s best slice nexttravel advice and information during the coronavirus pandemicnext i would love to hear your thoughts! cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. useful links home about blog work with me press popular iceland norway japan patagonia england facebook twitter instagram stay updated join my monthly newsletter for travel guides & tips email send