blog subscribe real stories & opinions about running an independent membership business. memberships patreon vs your own site: diversifying a membership business subscription-based crowdfunding on patreon has allowed thousands of creators to generate revenue from their work, with tens of $millions in estimated monthly payouts per month. kym ellis kym ellis 27 feb 2020 • 8 min read memberships the ultimate creators guide to membership websites memberships and subscriptions have become the most reliable monetisation strategy for creators and publishers of all kinds. kym ellis kym ellis 23 feb 2020 • 13 min read newsletters how to create a premium newsletter (+ some case studies) publishers of all kinds have flocked back to the humble email newsletter and discovered a whole new business model fuelled by premium content. kym ellis kym ellis 16 feb 2020 • 12 min read memberships how to make money blogging without ads or affiliate marketing there are many useful resources about how to make money blogging on the internet, but this one is different. kym ellis kym ellis 6 feb 2020 • 10 min read writing how to come up with great ideas for blog posts, every single time the blank canvas. the white screen. the blinking cursor. what do i write about now? john o'nolan john o'nolan 6 jan 2020 • 8 min read writing 3 ways to collect source material for creative work it took me a long time to understand that writing is a task best undertaken alone. and i don't just mean in solitude, i mean as an individual errand. one jimmy daly jimmy daly 25 jan 2016 • 6 min read writing where our favourite swear words came from, and why they're so much fun to say heads up: there are lots of swear words in this article. belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 26 oct 2015 • 16 min read writing what are you waiting for? how to overcome the hurdles holding you back from writing if you're not writing as much as you want to, it's time to take a look at what's stopping you. no matter what's holding you back, you can write more if you really want to. belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 29 sep 2015 • 8 min read writing a beginner's guide to guest posting: why it's useful and how to get started whenever someone asks me (or asks all of quora) what they should do to drive traffic/build their blog/grow an audience as a beginner in content marketing, i suggest belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 25 sep 2015 • 8 min read writing how to make your own writing sound better without paying an editor we can't all afford to pay an editor to review our work. and sometimes our kind friend who's great at picking up typos just doesn't have the time (when you write as much as i do those favours wear out quickly). belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 24 sep 2015 • 14 min read writing 10 minute writing workouts to improve your creativity, clarity, and storytelling skills although some people try to find the science in it, writing is really an art. which means it's hard to study precisely, and it's hard for us to know exactly what we can do to get better at it. belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 24 sep 2015 • 16 min read writing how to find the focus you need to write great content hint: the answer isn't blocking facebook belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 17 sep 2015 • 7 min read writing repurposing content: how to find new ideas in old content repurposing content ideas using work you've already done is a great way to improve the work you're already creating every day - and get more readers! belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 15 sep 2015 • 9 min read writing your thoughts are worth sharing: how to find the confidence to start blogging so you want to start a blog for your business, or to build up your audience, but you're worried that you have nothing interesting to say. belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 15 sep 2015 • 6 min read writing write better and faster using these blog post templates there are a few different parts of my writing process that often slow me down. one is choosing topics (what a killer). another is research, if i'm not sure where belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 11 sep 2015 • 9 min read writing how to write research-based posts writing a research-driven post can be daunting - so we put together this guide on how each step of the process. belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 10 sep 2015 • 19 min read writing using conflict to find creative ideas creativity is nourished by conflict. — scott belsky when you're struggling for new ideas, do you ever think "some conflict would be handy right about now"? i know i never do. belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 9 sep 2015 • 4 min read writing this brilliant blog post is about how to write incredibly clicky headlines for your awesome content ghost founder john and i have been talking content strategy lately. we've been really focused on blue-sky-synergy-sessions (obviously), but we've also been getting into the nitty-gritty on a few issues. belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 8 sep 2015 • 10 min read writing how to turn one tiny thought into a blog post worth reading sometimes i'll come across an interesting finding in my work, or in conversation, and i'll want to share it. but these little snippets of ideas or experiences don't always feel belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 3 sep 2015 • 7 min read writing the single best way to find time for blogging every day if you're struggling to find time to work on your blog, there's a really simple way to fix that. in fact, you can use this method to find time in your day for anything you want to make a priority. belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 31 aug 2015 • 8 min read writing why we connect with others better when they're vulnerable, and what that means for your content i often use personal stories to introduce my content. usually i'm writing about topics that i'm interested in, so there's some kind of personal connection for me—even if it's belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 27 aug 2015 • 8 min read writing the ins and outs of content syndication what is content syndication? what is it good for? how do you do it? belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 27 aug 2015 • 10 min read writing a 3-step method for setting content marketing goals you can actually achieve i love having goals to aim for. i feel a bit unmoored when i don't have any. so of course i have goals for my content marketing at ghost. i've belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 25 aug 2015 • 7 min read writing one simple approach to make your content stand out from the crowd in 2013 alex turnbull from groove wrote a post about what's made groove's content marketing strategy so successful (the post is actually titled "how we grew our blog to 5, belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 20 aug 2015 • 6 min read writing the insanely slow road to building a blog (and why most people give up) building a successful blog is hard. there's a lot more to it than simply creating a blog and writing your first post. for starters, readers won't show up just because you're writing. you have to tell people about your work if you want them to care. belle beth cooper belle beth cooper 19 aug 2015 • 8 min read blog subscribe the ghost blog © 2020 latest posts ghost you've successfully subscribed to the ghost blog! subscribe to the ghost blog stay up to date! get all the latest & greatest posts delivered straight to your inbox subscribe great! check your inbox and click the link to confirm your subscription. please enter a valid email address!