home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library travel prevnext ghostly cork leyla preston mon 27th nov 2017 2shares share tweet pin if you’re struggling to find something unique to do with the family this year, then there are hundreds of fantastic and interesting places in the uk that you could take the family to. in fact, the united kingdom is one of the top travel destinations for families in the world and offers plenty of awe-inspiring attractions, as well as thrilling activities for kids of all ages. steeped in history, cork and the surrounding county cork are the perfect areas to explore for budding ghost hunters, especially in the winter time. whether you choose to join an organised tour or bring the whole family, you’re in for a real fright. if you’re travelling from england, then you only need a car hire in the uk to bring you to some of the most renowned haunted sites in cork, which are: table of contents the lake in cork lough park the rocking virgin mary church of the resurrection, farranree kanturk kinsale well the lake in cork lough park photo credit: https://www.mykidstime.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/the-lough.jpg legend has it the area was once owned by a king who declared the well out of bounds to local people. only his daughter the princess was allowed to use it. unfortunately for her, the well overflowed one night as she drew water from it, flooding the surrounding area and killing herself and her family too. apparently, you can still hear the family’s screams at night from beneath the icy waters of the lake. the rocking virgin mary on the 22nd of july 1985 at a roadside grotto in ballinspittle, two women observed the statue of the virgin mary rocking on its heels. they witnessed exactly the same thing when they returned the following night with friends. thousands of people have flocked to the statue since then to see if they will see the same. ballinspittle statue is still on the move! cork has been well known for its ghostly encounters. watch this ghost activity at deerpark school in cork! church of the resurrection, farranree photo credit: http://corkandross.org/parishes/farranree/ on the 13th of september 1985, three children watched as the virgin mary started moving and almost fell on top of them. the mother of one of the children claimed the statue’s eyes turned red and its cheeks and feet turned black as it moved. scary stuff – and it’s the same school! (deerpark secondary school in cork) – how do you explain this? kanturk photo credit: http://www.kanturk.ie/imagesofkanturk.html every seven years the ghostly figure of a foal is seen in kanturk. don’t go looking for it though, it’s said that if you see it you’ll be dead within a day! kinsale well on new year’s eve, it’s said the water in kinsale well turns into wine. however, anyone looking into the well at this time will die. a couple who went to see if this legend was true was reportedly found dead next to the well one new years day. book yourself into a travelodge with the family this year and head off to this enchanting area of cork to see for yourself just how haunted the town really is. but make sure the children are old enough to handle the spooky sites because you may even stumble across a ghost yourself! do you believe ghosts and all things mystical? share with us your spookiest memories in the comments below! *collaborative featured post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:corkcounty corkghostholidaysponsored posttravel related posts tips for travelling with children playmobil – the perfect toy sets for bus... top 6 things to do with the kids this ha... the right way to host a kids’ slee... my top ten tips for travelling with tiri... win £250 just by sharing your favourite ... why we decided to use an airport car par... avoid holiday disasters – a guide ... top 3 great things i want to do with the... how to rv in the winter elder care: the options 10 reasons why you should rent an rv thi... does your personality affect the way you... brantano clarks ballerina shoes – ... top five tips for spreading the cost of ... 6 reasons why you should take your baby ... my kitchen story: britmums #kitchentales... top seasonal family friendly holidays wh... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sici... top tips for stocking up a dressing up b... how to prepare for a baby – the first-ye... so you think you know the uk? share it a... 7 reasons why you should take the family... sharm el-sheikh – a top class thomson ho... emma bridgewater: personalised mugs benefits of using public transport over ... 21 travel hacks you need to know this su... keeping the kids entertained during trav... ten half-term activities you can do on a... the best holiday destinations for new pa... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 2shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok