home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » gift ideas holiday gift idea: hot cocoa on a stick november 11, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments every year i try to come up with a simple and inexpensive gift idea for teachers and service providers in my life. but, i don't want the gifts to look cheap. this year i put together these simple hot cocoa on a stick gift mugs. they look festive and provide a nice warm treat for … [read more...] gift ideas, recipe 26 brilliant diy coaster ideas august 23, 2019 sheri 2 comments add some personality to your home and prevent those awful rings on your tabletops by making some coasters to place under every drink! here are 26 brilliant diy coaster ideas to inspire you and show how you can use a variety of materials to create some really cool coasters in any … [read more...] arts and craft, diy, gift ideas decor, diy, roundup diy wooden bath tray with phone holder may 29, 2019 sheri leave a comment diy wooden bath tray with phone holder are you looking to add some beautiful functionality to your bathroom? this diy wooden bath tray (with phone holder) is the perfect addition! it turns a plain bath tub into the perfect place to relax and unwind. i'm sheri from hazel + gold … [read more...] bathroom, build it, diy, gift ideas bathroom, diy, tutorial, wood projects diy oilcloth drink coasters april 17, 2019 karen decor hint 3 comments diy oilcloth drink coasters hi there! i’m so thrilled to be back today with this super quick and easy project. the weather in seattle has been totally amazing lately and it’s got me thinking about summer. and, summer entertaining is on the brain! this project will look great … [read more...] decor, decorating, dining room, diy, fabric, gift ideas, home decor, july 4th, party, sewing, summer, tablescape, tutorial top 16 gift ideas for the diy enthusiast november 25, 2018 brittany bailey 1 comment top 16 gift ideas for the diy enthusiast cyber monday is the perfect day to look for online deals and steals. even if you missed cyber monday, i have some stocking stuffer ideas for your little (or big) diyer? these are gift items i know any diyer would love to have in their … [read more...] diy, gift ideas diy back to school pencil vase august 6, 2018 brittany bailey 5 comments diy back to school pencil vase last year my son's teachers asked for a pack of pre-sharpened pencils. instead of just giving them a box of pencils, i wanted to give his teachers something prettier than a box of pencils. when i found a colorful package of pencils, i knew i was on … [read more...] arts and craft, gift ideas, très frugal, upcycling pressed faux flowers behind glass may 24, 2018 julie at love my simple home 2 comments pressed faux flowers hello, pretty handy girl friends! julie from love my simple home here, with a new diy project! pressed faux flowers behind glass is quick and easy to make. you'll end up with a beautiful piece of leaning art that you can display on a shelf in your … [read more...] art, decor, diy, gift ideas, home decor clever diy upcycled vases march 23, 2018 sheri 1 comment 20 clever diy upcycled vases vases are beautiful and one of those home decor items that can be used in many different ways. they can sit empty on a shelf adding to the style of the room, hold beautiful flower arrangements, or be given as loving gifts. these clever upcycled … [read more...] collection, decorating, diy, gift ideas, upcycling, vase craft, decor, diy, diy gifts, gift idea, how to, roundup diy bread and cheese board january 3, 2018 vineta jackson 3 comments diy bread and cheese board hi there, pretty handy girl readers! i'm vineta from the handyman's daughter, back with another tutorial for you! this bread and cheese board was a gift to my mom for christmas, and she absolutely loved it! the marble inlay is perfect for keeping … [read more...] build it, gift ideas, gifts cheese board, cutting board, gift idea 31 last minute diy gift basket ideas december 15, 2017 brittany bailey 5 comments i'm sure you are feeling that crunch to get gifts for those last people on your list. or maybe your cousin you haven't seen in years is suddenly coming for a visit. i get it, there's nothing worse than feeling the pressure to purchase last minute gifts for people. today i'd like … [read more...] gift ideas, gifts 26 creative diy gifts from your kitchen december 8, 2017 sheri 4 comments creative diy gifts from your kitchen the kitchen is the heart of the home and a place full of love, family, and delicious food. why not make your kitchen the go to place for diy gifts this year? plus there's something special about receiving a homemade gift. would you agree? … [read more...] gift ideas, gifts, kitchen, recipe christmas gifts, diy gifts, food gifts, gift ideas, gift recipes, giftable recipes, holiday gifts, homemade desserts, kitchen gifts, made in kitchen 16 unique diy hostess gift ideas december 1, 2017 sheri 5 comments 16 unique diy hostess gift ideas holiday festivities are about to begin, and you don't want to arrive to those parties empty-handed! thank your hostess by bringing a thoughtful and personal gift that is sure to put a smile on his or her face. here is a collection of unique diy … [read more...] crafts, diy, do it yourself, gift ideas, gifts diy, gift giving, gift roundup, gifts, giving, holiday parties, hostess gift ideas, how to, make your own, roundup diy sheet metal gift trays november 27, 2017 brittany bailey 1 comment diy sheet metal gift trays the holidays are fast approaching and it's time to start thinking about gift giving ideas! gift trays are a great way deliver gifts to your friends, neighbors or teachers. the best part of a gift tray is it can be reused for anything they want and … [read more...] build it, caulking, christmas gift wrap, crafts, diy, do it yourself, fix it, gift ideas, gift wrapping, gifts, moulding, nailgun, sheet metal craft, decor, diy, gift idea, gifts, how to, wood projects how to build a quick diy tray & gift box july 14, 2017 brittany bailey 5 comments y'all, i've been itching to share this project with you because it's easy, quick and frugal (all things i like in a good diy project!) today i'm going to show you how to build a quick diy tray & gift box. question: what's better than giving a one-of-a-kind gift? what's … [read more...] arts and craft, build it, gift ideas easy gold and marble coasters february 8, 2017 anika gandhi 7 comments hello pretty handy girl fans!! i am anika - the girl behind anika's diy life. as a long time pretty handy girl fan myself, i can't find words to tell you how excited i am to be a contributor to brittany's amazing site and share my projects with you amazing readers every month! … [read more...] arts and craft, gift ideas fixing common gift wrap problems – guest post by pretty handsome guy december 24, 2016 brittany bailey 43 comments hi all, pretty handsome guy here filling in for brittany. last night brittany and i were wrapping presents and i thought i'd share with you some common gift wrap problems and how to deal with them. think of this as the polar opposite of her creative gift wrapping series of … [read more...] arts and craft, christmas gift wrap, gift ideas, guests, pretty handsome guy 1 2 3 … 9 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok