instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "gift guide" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: gift guide rebecca 8 min read december 12, 2019 no reply 2019 gift guide for kids shopping all the gifts to know about to look like a holiday hero this season it’s that time of year again! if you are just starting your holiday shopping, or if you are almost done, i’ve rounded up a list of fun, interesting, cool items for kids of all ages. as always, here’s a bit more about this year’s gift guide: simple. this is a list of ideas that i’m sharing, from one parent to another, for those of your who need an idea for someone in your family, a friend’s child, a niece or nephew that is hard to buy for and so on. there is no way to get on the gift guide unless i think the item is super neat/would be fun/i want to give to someone myself. that means it’s unsponsored. some items are from my partners or have been given to me, but if they are here it’s because i think they deserve to be. as always, the gift guide has grown with my own kids so i’m shopping for a 9 and 13 year old this year but i have nieces and nephews and kids in my life who are between the ages of 2 years old and 20 years old, so i get it. all ideas are needed. as i mentioned, you can browse my previous gift guides too because there are some pretty stellar recommendations on there. please enjoy the guide, and as always, if you need some extra help, i am happy to be a little elf helper and provide you with even more suggestions – just drop me a comment, a message on social media or an email! ps: some of your chapters purchases may be affiliate links – at no cost to you, i may end up with some extra coffee money! thanks! myfunvelope (note: this was gifted to me to check out but you know i always include crafts on my list!) stem activities and hands-on crafts delivered right to your door for the special child in your life? sounds pretty amazing! myfunvelope offers a one-time craft kit purchase or a stem/craft project monthly subscription service. the packages comes with new crafts each month to create, and the very first order includes a decorate-your-own pencil case with markers and scissors! they’ll love having their own mail arrive! instructions are available in english and french. to purchase: my funvelope, beginning at about $19.99 https://www.instagram.com/p/bra0g6zae3p/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link luggage when my youngest was 5, my parents got both the kids small luggage for our upcoming disney trip. it was the perfect gift. we are still using them, although i think the kids will need a bit of a bigger sized carry on in the near future. a few tips when looking for kids luggage: i like hard shells, and ones that are for sure carry on. if you go too small, you’ll find they simply don’t hold enough so make sure it’s practical. and the wheels matter. get a kind with great wheels so they can pull it through the airport! this makes a great gift for preteens and teens too! where to buy: various location, but look at heys – i really like their stuff! view this post on instagram just in time for the holiday season, our e-commerce manager brittany shares her favourite luggage piece baby shark. the perfect gift for the toddler in your life "…who are obsessed with baby shark".⁠⠀⁠⠀ check out our holiday gift guide, link in bio.⁠⠀⁠⠀ ⁠#heysluggage #myheys⁠ ⠀⁠⠀ ⁠⠀ ⁠⠀ ⁠⠀ ⁠⠀ ⁠⠀ ⁠⠀ ⁠⠀ ————————————-⁠⠀ #babyshark #babysharktheme #babysharksong #holidaygiftguide #holidaygifts #holidaygift #holidaygiftideas #travelgifts #kidsfashion #kidstyles #kidswear #kids_circle #kidstravel #kidstraveltips #travelkids #momsofig #joyfulmamas #lifewithboys ⁣ a post shared by heys luggage (@heysluggage) on dec 9, 2019 at 1:48pm pst squishmallow stuffies! i keep buying these as gifts because my daughter loves hers so much. they are soft and cuddly and the kids love them. where to buy them: i’ve gotten them at winners, but you may find them at your local shop or chapters too. grimm’s wooden toys every time hintonburg kids posts a photo of grimm’s wooden toys (especially the rainbow), i think that it would have for sure been under my children’s tree when younger. i love wooden toys, and the open ended opportunities these present are wonderful. visit hintonburg kids for details! view this post on instagram we restocked lots of old grimm’s favourites today, and can you spot the new goodies? grimm’s open-ended wooden toys are suitable for a wide range of ages, it’s fun to watch how your child adapts their play as they grow older. these toys are well-made, and so beautiful to look at! if you’re already think ahead to christmas, and you want to focus on quality toys that will inspire hours of creative play, you should come in and see them in person. #woodentoys #grimmsrainbow #naturaltoys #shop613 #yow #supportlocal #ottawafamily #ottawababy #ottawakids a post shared by hintonburg kids (@hintonburgkids) on nov 1, 2019 at 2:14pm pdt star wars books for kids if you haven’t read through jeffrey brown’s sweetly created star wars books you are missing out. these are family favourites and make the perfect gift no matter your child’s age! where to buy: chapters baby gowns both of my kids wore baby nightgowns when they were first born and i loved them. it made for easy nighttime diaper changes, and since they were swaddled or wrapped, they stayed cozy. new versions have a tie off bottom keeping little legs warm. if you know someone who is expected or who just had a baby, introduce them to the world of gowns. i love the look of this sweet and cozy set – and the slippers can easily be added to the gift list. my sister asked for these padraigs with every baby she had! where to buy: most baby clothing shops have nightgowns, but check out this set and the slippers at hintonburg kids. view this post on instagram we’ve restocked these lovely knitted newborn gowns, which provide quick and easy access to your little one’s diaper area. pair them with a pair of woollen padraig slippers to keep your little one’s feet cozy. this sweet little outfit would be such a thoughtful baby shower gift! #ottawababy #newbornessentials #babyshowergiftideas #shop613 #yow #supportlocal #babylayette #padraigcottage a post shared by hintonburg kids (@hintonburgkids) on dec 4, 2019 at 9:45am pst funny mat (note: this was gifted to me too but i love anything that encourages creativity! the travel set will be perfect on a plane too) you know how you keep finding scraps of paper with drawings, writing, random colouring all over it? what if you had a way to reduce the paper use, but still encourage all of the fun creativity? that opportunity exists thanks to the funny mat. these large mats can be coloured or painted, then washed, over and over again with washable products making them perfect for the eco-conscious parent (or the parent who wants less mess!) many sets come with washable markers too. my daughter even took the travel kit with us to montebello and was colouring in the car. i love that i can set the mat out on the table and she just colours away right before supper or when there’s a bit of quiet time. where to find them: various locations, including tag along toys on bank street and fab baby gear, or on their website. portable train set the kids always loved having a train set around, but this one from melissa and doug brings it to the next level because it’s portable! with all of our holiday and summer travel over the years, i’ve discovered that toys that are easy to pack up are my favourite, so this set looks like it would be a great way to grab it before a hotel stay, or visiting the grandparents. view this post on instagram love this new melissa & doug take along table top train set. if you don’t have a ton of space this is easy to set up and easy to store. great toy to take or leave at grandma & grandpa’s house too. available in farm, railroad & town. #tagalongtoys #takealongtrain #melissaanddoug #trainset #localottawatoystore a post shared by patti (@tagalongtoys) on nov 27, 2019 at 3:50pm pst where to find it: various, tag along toys in ottawa adopt an animal if you have a child who has been expressing their interest in animals, taking care of them, or worrying about animal habitats (this is a topic that comes up with my own kids from time to time), then consider adopting an animal. with a world wildlife fund adoption, they get a certificate and information about their animal, and some packages offer stuffed replicas. this is a great way to encourage their involvement and give a meaningful gift. left right centre most years, i like to include a game that our family has been enjoying (like exploding kittens which we still all love) but one that is the perfect game and gift all in one is called left right centre. it’s an easy dice game that is great for kids and adults to play together. but be warned – it gets loud while you are having fun! where to buy it: various places, look for it locally at mrs. tiggy winkles my final tip is this: i have found some amazing gifts over the years at local community craft shows, or bigger artisan, made-in-ottawa events. they are always worth checking out and supporting! happy shopping – and if you are still in need of a few more ideas, message me on social media! rebecca 8 min read november 21, 2018 5 replies the 2018 holiday gift guide for kids shopping here it is! the 2018 gift guide for kids by a little bit of momsense! i can’t believe i have been sharing these since 2009! you can find all of my previous gift guides at this link – and they are worth browsing because many of those ideas are still ones i recommend! these are the gifts that will stand out this year – the 2018 holiday gift guide for kids by @bitofmomsense click to tweet so what’s up with this gift guide? simple. this is a list of ideas that i’m sharing, from one parent to another, for those of your who need an idea for someone in your family, a friend’s child, a niece or nephew that is hard to buy for and so on. there is no way to get on the gift guide unless i think the item is super neat/would be fun/i want to give to someone myself. that means it’s unsponsored. some items are from my partners or have been given to me, but if they are here it’s because i think they deserve to be. as always, the gift guide has grown with my own kids so i’m shopping for a 9 and 12 year old this year but i have nieces and nephews and kids in my life who are between the ages of 2 years old and 20 years old, so i get it. all ideas are needed. as i mentioned, you can browse my previous gift guides too because there are some pretty stellar recommendations on there (in fact, i’m going to do a round up of the top 10 gifts that really had staying power in this house!) please enjoy the guide, and as always, if you need some extra help, i am happy to be a little elf helper and provide you with even more suggestions – just drop me a comment, a message on social media or an email! 2018 gift guide for kids unicorn head band game someone in our extended family is getting this for christmas, and the joke is that we are waiting to see how long before the adults get involved. not only is this a game smaller kiddos can play, but it’s one the entire family can try. we anticipate a lot of laughs! where to buy it: chapters, tag along toys (in ottawa) milk and sass both my kids are pre-teens, and i’m often asked about this age group. one thing i really like that i think is the perfect stocking stuffer for pre-teens and teens is the milk and sass hairbrush and compact mirror. handy to keep in their lockers or bookbags for before-pictures at school, or when the older kids want to skip over hat hair in the morning. i love the look and colours of the design. it detangles and is great for travel. where to buy: https://www.milkandsass.com/shop/ world changing kids i love the local work that world changing kids is doing, but now anyone across the country can encourage family members to get involved in their own neighbourhoods with this guide to kindness. there is a years worth of kind activities for your family to do. where to buy: world changing kids, tag along toys ‘who was’ books there are always books that i can recommend for kids, and like previous years when the weird, but true books were a huge hit, the who was series is a massive go-to for my eldest who loves non-fiction reads. these kid-friendly historic explanations and biographies are really interesting. where to buy them: chapters exploding kittens this was one of our family board games from christmas last year and it has proven to be a huge hit. we travel with it too so that we can play at the cottage in pei. again, it’s another game that’s perfect for the kids but is a lot of fun for parents too. where to buy it: chapters, mrs. tiggy winkles kids made modern craft set my daughter received this craft set for her birthday a couple of years ago and it’s amazing. there seem to be two different styles available, but the basic principle is the same: it includes a variety of pipe cleaners, felt, sewing needles, beads, glue and more. this is the box she uses when she wants to create and craft and we love it. where to buy it: well.ca, chapters tattly again, this feels like one of those things for when the kids get older and want to express themselves but that parents can get behind. these are perfect stocking stuffers too! artistically designed, these temporary tattoos are gorgeous and they are made of vegetable ink and last about 2-4 days. where to buy them: terra20.com bake shop this was another birthday present that proved to be so much fun. if you have a child who is obsessed with things that are ‘cute’ this may be just for them. it is great for kiddos that are a bit older (6+, although your 9 year olds will be able to do them independently) and the kids make sweet baked items out of soft clay (that eventually dries). where to buy it: scholastic, chapters, many places where klutz products are sold slime kit sorry parents, don’t tell me how much you hate slime. we all hate slime, it’s not our thing. but i do love how these slime kits come with everything the kids need to make their own slime – bowls, measuring spoons, etc, without having to worry about going through our cupboards. the clean up is pretty easy and i like this better than trying to search for my old contact lense solution. where to buy: most places where slime is sold (chapters, toys r us etc) antsy pants play sets i almost added this to my gift guide last year, but then found out that they weren’t available in canada yet. however, they are now available at chapters! yay! this is such a fun looking set (and i was lucky enough that they sent me one – i will have very happy nieces this christmas!). there are connectors that make stands and play sets, then additional covers to customize the scene (like a lemonade stand or farmers’ market). this is one of those things that i know would have been under my tree if my kids were younger. you buy the pole starter set, then you can buy covers to enter into a make believe world! where to buy them: chapters cuddly sloth if you are buying a gift for a new little one in your life, santa can give this adorable stuffed sloth and it will be cherished for years to come. just looking at it makes me smile and i know we still have some of our little stuffies from when the kids were babies. where to buy: chapters tornado tower you’ll notice my list doesn’t include a lot of plastic toys, but the reality is that every year we end up gifting some because there are some really neat ones (or just trendy ones that the kids want, let’s be honest). but when i saw this stem focused little tikes tornado tower a few months ago, i knew i wanted to share it on my list. i love anything that encourages stem, but starting them young is great too! where to buy: most places little tikes is sold like chapters or toys r us. pin it for later rebecca 2 min read december 10, 2017 1 reply the star wars fan gift guide shopping for him, for her, for the kids, babies and wookies in your life, i’ve rounded up some amazing star wars gifts that you’ll be excited to give and they’ll be excited to get. millenium falcon pool floatie give someone the gift of the greatest ship in the galaxy for their swimming pool. you can pretend to be han solo or maybe even someone new who will fly the ship when the last jedi comes out! sphero bb-8 this is a wow gift. it’s one that would make me anyone excited to receive. you get to control bb-8! everyone needs this little droid rolling around, right? jedi academy books for the little fan who wants more stories from a galaxy far far away, the jedi academy chapter books may be perfect! darth vader books what would darth vader be like as a father? one who raised luke and leia? this hilarious cartoon series explores that very thought. it’s funny, cute and a fun read for the entire family. r2-d2 baby onesie i wish i had put my babies in this. how cute would this onesie be on the baby in your life that you want to spoil (and teach the ways of the force to early on!) star wars make up yes, you read that right. you can choose your palette: the dark side or the light side, but also, check out the compact mirrors! star wars itty bitty i think the little itty bitty stuffed characters from hallmark are too cute. select your favourite character and tuck them into a stocking! star wars earrings star wars love earrings local shop workshop studio and boutique has a selection of star wars earrings like darth vader, yoda and c3p0 (found online) but based on their instagram, they may have other options in store! this is a great gift for someone who loves to add some flare to their own personal style and is a big fan. a post shared by workshop & flock boutiques (@workshopandflock) on oct 30, 2017 at 9:29am pdt gifts for the star wars fan in your life via @bitofmomsense click to tweet what star wars item would you like to see under your tree? rebecca 5 min read november 24, 2017 no reply holiday gift guide for kids: babies to school aged parenting fun gifts they’ll love here it is! this year’s gift guide for kids. these are items that we have in our home and love, that may show up under our tree, or that i think would be fun for kids other kids of varying ages. each year, i include hand-picked items that i’ve seen over the past few months (or have owned for some time) and want to share with you! this guide isn’t sponsored (although a few advertisers appear because i shop there too) and doesn’t include the current trends. i suspect most of us know to look for shopkins, pokemon or minecraft gifts already. i tried to find gifts that you might not usually think of or see yourself! also, i always think that craft kits and puzzles make for excellent gifts, when in doubt. i didn’t include too many specific ones this year, but keep that in mind. i highly encourage you to browse the other gift guides from previous years because looking back, we are still using so many of those gifts. you can find all of them here. see something from a previous guide and want to know how it’s held up if we own it? send me a message! the 2017 bit of momsense gif guide for kids is here! your shopping just got easier via @bitofmomsense click to tweet here it is, your shopping guide for some fun, unique and special gifts this holiday season for the kiddos in your life. 2017 gift guide for kids monopoly empire every year, we get a family board game under our christmas tree. last year, santa brought monopoly empire and we didn’t realize how much we would all love it. the premise is that you are a company that is trying to out buy the other brands and get richer. it’s cutthroat at times, and strategic, and a lot of fun. highly recommend! buy it: toys r us (often on sale!) a camera originally, i thought about getting the fuji camera that goes underwater, has wifi etc. but in the end, i decided this year to try out the v-tech video/camera for kids (shhhh it’s a secret). it will be a good introduction for my two to play around with it, and for me to see how serious they are about using it. as they get older a ‘real’ digital camera can be on the list, but for now, i’m excited to see the vacation photos and action photos they take with this one. buy it: chapters skip hop owl push toy my mom bought this for my niece who just turned one and as soon as i saw it in action i said ‘this is going on my gift guide!’. it’s basically a little push toy like the old poppers, but it’s an owl and the wings move as it goes. and i don’t find it as loud. it’s beyond cute. buy it: chapters make your own nail polish i love finding gifts for older kids as well as younger ones, and i love that this suncoat set is the right combination of fun, youthful craft time and creative pre-teen time. the set comes with clear polish and different colours that you can mix and match to create your own. naming them will be fun too! buy it: terra20, tag along toys flower press years ago, my daughter was given a flower press as a gift. she still uses it now. i love hands-on activities like this, and the introduction to preserving flowers is a wonderful activity to do. buy it: tag along toys, amazon.ca over the door basketball net every year it seems, there’s something active under our tree. we’ve had hockey nets, sticks, basketballs, tennis balls, and more. i love the idea of having an over the door basketball net. with space being limited in many homes, this is a fun way for kids to spend some quiet time, or for the family to play together. i love the price points on these too. buy it: star wars themed net – canadian tire (other nba ones or plain ones are available at various locations) magic kit my son got a couple magic and illusionist style kits years ago and is still using them. card tricks in particular have been really popular. this will keep the kids busy! buy it: tag along toys in-store, chapters weird but true books perhaps one of the most popular books that are in our house right now are the national geographic weird but true series. these books are pages and pages of fact snippets that will make you say, wait for it, “weird! but true!” most of the books are small in size which make them perfect travel companions. we even take them to restaurants to do quizzing/guessing games! both my kids have been hugely interested in these books. buy it: chapters, scholastic fisher price cash register this reminds me of my childhood. that’s it, it’s pure nostalgia, but i suspect little ones will still have fun putting the coins in and watching them roll down. buy it: chapters, toys r us that is my list for this year and i hope you found it helpful! have questions or want to know more about certain products that appear on my list? ask below! rebecca 7 min read november 20, 2016 no reply 2016 gift guide for kids shopping it’s that time of year! the time when my kids are anticipating the arrival of our elf on the shelf, when they are finalizing lists to santa, when i’m putting on christmas music and when andy is trying to convince me to wait just a little bit longer before decorating. and, it’s the time of year when i share my gift guide! each year, i share with you a gift guide of gifts for kids that i have purchased for my own kids, have in my house already or just cool gifts that i think kids would love. about this gift guide the list is not sponsored (although some of my blog advertisers and previous partners appear here, because they have great stuff!) and the list has grown with my own children. if you have younger kids and want to know some additional ideas, my previous gift guides have fun toys and goodies that are still used in our house (i’ve included links below), or message me and i’ll share some gifts i’ve found for nieces and nephews! as always, i encourage you to check out your local shops for some items, but i’ve included links to some places where you can find them online as well! and now, get your pens and paper out to write down you list! here it is! the 2016 gift guide from @bitofmomsense with fun gift ideas for the kids in your life click to tweet here’s the 2016 a little bit of momsense gift guide! kayak magazine i wrote about kayak a few months ago. once again, my son was gifted a subscription for his birthday and he’s thrilled. i think it would make a great gift for kids, especially if you are gifting it to someone out of town or who you don’t see often. board games i couldn’t narrow down just one recommendation. we, like a lot of families, have a lot of board games and every year we add to the collection. santa likes to bring our family a family board game as a gift. if your kids are younger, i recommend starting out with jenga. it’s something that they can play with parents, or just use the blocks to build. i also love the game zingo which we got years ago (and the kids love it too!). for older kids, we loved playing monopoly empire (and will soon be playing it more after christmas!) and recently we got jeopardy! that one is definitely for older kids but my 10 year old is excited to play with us. there’s even a travel edition! lastly, if you haven’t played ticket to ride, that’s a fantastic game for the family. my youngest joins a team for the time being, but my eldest plays on his own with us. it’s a lot of fun! maplelea girls dolls and/or accessories i recently worked on a campaign with maplelea girls. my daughter got one last year from a campaign and has been asking for add-ons since. last christmas, she received a bird friend and some outfits. this year, it sounds like more outfits are on her santa list. i like that there are accessories no matter what your child’s interests – hockey, gymnastics, horse back riding etc. create your own craft box i loved getting craft items as a kid, and now my kids receive something each year. there are many ready-to-go sets that are perfect for gift giving, but if you aren’t sure what someone may like, build your own! think about supplying canvases, water colour paper (it’s way better than construction paper or printer paper!), washi tape, googly eyes (there are never enough!) and other items that may not be common in craft kids at home. add a really great set of markers – my daughter never can get enough! bloxels how about a game where the kids make up their own character or world offline, then upload it and build a game online? that’s why i think my kids are going to love bloxels. we are a family that loves video games, but being able to take them offline is something that i think is great too! i found ours at tag along toys. a photo posted by bloxels (@bloxels) on nov 15, 2016 at 12:15pm pst invent the greatest board game do your kids every try to make their own board game or game up? i love that this kit has pieces that they can create an actual game! three cheers for creativity! check out your local toy store to see if they have it (we got one at tag along toys.) stikbot studio pro along with an app, this set uses a green screen to get the characters into whatever scene the kids want. my eldest especially is already into stop motion but now with the green screen he’ll be able to take his creativity to the next level! ten thousand villages recycling truck i love the toys at ten thousand villages. they are so creative! this wooden recycling truck caught my eye the last time i was in there. i always have a soft spot for cute wooden toys. crayola shopkins stamp maker i’ve written about the crayola marker maker before (everyone loved it!), but this year i see there is a stamp set (shopkins at that!) and i think it would be a hit with many. goldieblox ruby skyhigh cable car goldieblox has been a really great building set for my daughter who i often call a tinker fairy. she loves to create and build – often from recycling material or anything lying around! we have other goldieblox sets, but this skyhigh cable car looks pretty fun! playmobil carry case the kids have a variety of playmobil, although not the giant sets. but they’ve been well loved and well played with for years. if you aren’t sure where to start, i love the playmobil carry case options. they have just a few pieces and come in a handy case to travel with. it makes for a great starter set (plus the price point is fantastic). puzzles what i love about puzzles is that there are different styles for different ages. they make for an excellent activity to do together, or for quiet time. look for pretty or eye-catching scenes that the kids will be interested in. giant floor puzzles are excellent for younger kids, and puzzles with 100 pieces or more for school aged kids are more challenging and my daughter loves them. (i love the cobble hill puppy one from tag along toys!) still looking for more gift ideas? check out my previous gift guides! 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 rebecca 5 min read november 23, 2015 2 replies holiday gift guide: great gifts for kids 2015 parenting, shopping it’s time for my holiday gift guide! what items will be under my tree, have been under the tree and we love, that just look really fun etc. i try to find items that aren’t maybe as common as you’d find by browsing through the flyers that are delivered to your door. and yes, shopkins are making an appearance in our house but i didn’t add them to the list. also not on the list but is always found under the tree are books! hopefully this will help you find a few new, fun, useful items for your kids or the kids in your life! click here for last year’s list (because many of those items are still being played with around here) and the lists of previous years. you’ll notice my list tends to grow with my kids, but i try to include a variety of ages! need help finding something? let me know on facebook. i’m happy to help give more ideas! here we go! 2015 holiday gift guide 1- waldorf curvy board from a local craftsman, this curvy board would have been perfect for my kids when they were younger. i love toys that have open-ended play. is it a bridge? a ramp? a surfboard? the kids can decide! image: tom of all trades where to find it: tom of all trades, facebook 2- goldieblox image: toys r us i love this toy. mostly, because since receiving it, i’ve seen my daughter tinker and create and it’s wonderful to see. this year, she’s receiving the big pack of items where she can make her own creations, but if you aren’t sure where to start, grab the zipline. it’s been so much fun. where to find it: tag along toys, chapters, toys r us 3- minecraft stop motion image: chapters combining my son’s love of minecraft, with his love of stop motion (using an app on the phone or ipad), my mom found this minecraft stop motion kit. i have no doubt some mini-movies will be made! where to find it: chapters 4- star wars perplexus image: chapters for harder to buy for kids, and older kids, how cool is the new star wars death star perplexus? challenge your kiddo with this very cool maze. plus star wars! where to find it: various toy retails that carry perplexus, chapters. 5- craft supplies i feel it’s impossible to narrow this down, but craft supplies and kits are some of my favourite gifts to give and for the kids to get. i love encouraging their creative side, but also non-toy gifts are always appreciated. plus, we never have enough crafts for craft time! not sure where to start? last year i bought this kit for the kids and it’s been such a fantastic find. it’s filled with everything we need to get creative, with instructions to follow, or we can just create anything we want! image: toys r us where to find it: toys r us 6- scratch book image: mrs. tiggy winkles my daughter received this for a gift last year and it was very popular. it’s a really neat way to be creative! where to find them: various locations, mrs. tiggy winkles 7- charades image: tag along toys every year, santa brings a family game to play. last year was charades and i really recommend it. this pack has cards for everyone in the family, including picture-only cards for the non-readers, and kid-friendly actions for the younger crowd. there are plenty of cards to challenge adults as well, making it a game all of us can play. where to find it: tag along toys 8- super mario maker image: eb games okay, i don’t usually add video games to these lists, but come on. you know my obsession with mario games right? super mario maker is so much fun, i think because we can create our own levels which means i create something cool for the kids to try, and they then try to create a level to stump me, which hasn’t happened yet. ha! if you aren’t sure about this game, it’s a huge thumbs up in this house. where to find it: most game retailers should have it in stock. eb games have fun! facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.