home comments policy subscribe posts by author: gina_schouten josh dipaolo answers questions about online teaching by gina schouten on march 14, 2020 josh dipaolo is one of the most thoughtful and skilled teachers i know, and he has a fair bit of experience teaching online. so once i thought about this transition long enough to start feeling really overwhelmed by it, josh was my first call. and he was generous enough to spend some time writing out answers to questions supplied by graduate students in my department. i’ve pasted our emailed “conversation” below. one of my favorite things about josh’s responses is his insistence that we bear in mind all the other ways that our students’ lives are difficult right now. some of these are quite severe, but others are mundane and it’s fully within our control to avoid compounding the difficulty. for example, josh reminds us that our students, just like us, are overwhelmed right now with emails. so especially in these early days, we should take extra care in crafting our communications to them so as to avoid the need for repeated follow-ups to correct or clarify. we can try to be a warm and calm voice for them, or at least work hard to avoid adding to their stress and anxiety. there are lots of gems in here. here’s one of my favorites: “one bit of advice i’ve seen floating around seems right and relevant to this question. the idea is something like: ‘you’re not now teaching an online class. you’re moving your face to face class online.’ what this means to me is that the question at hand is not what’s the best way to assess student learning online. it’s more like: what’s the best (or maybe even just a good) way to assess student learning, given that half the semester was in person and that students enrolled in this class with certain expectations and that now i have to assess it using online tools in the context of a worldwide pandemic?” [click to continue…] harry on becoming a better college teacher (if you’re lucky) by gina schouten on october 1, 2019 for a long time, i’ve been convinced that we can only improve our teaching practice in a reliable, systematic way up to some threshold. below that threshold, we can read books, talk to those who have more experience, and refine our teaching by growing our knowledge of best practices for getting students to learn. but once we’ve really effortfully done all that, further gains just aren’t something we can get through any sort of studied practice. we hope we continue to improve, but our best bet is just to figure out over time how to fully inhabit our teaching skin. this was never meant as an excuse for complacency: further reading and study might make improvement more likely, so we shouldn’t let up our efforts once the low hanging fruit begins to seem depleted. (for one thing, we might be wrong about its being depleted!) but the kind of progress we can hope to make is different above the threshold than below. above it, for example, there are few standards of success that aren’t endogenous in important ways to questions of value that we settle at early stages of thinking about what we as teachers want for our students. to put it roughly: i thought that below some threshold, teaching is a science, and above it, an art. harry’s contribution to the fall 2019 issue of daedalus is beginning to convince me otherwise. the issue “improving teaching: strengthening the college learning experience,” features thirteen essays that focus on “what goes on inside the ‘black box’ of teaching and learning.” [click to continue…] on photos and parental smirks by gina schouten on september 27, 2019 since becoming a parent i’ve been experiencing a new flavor of gentle inter-generational antagonism. the thing that i call a “pack-‘n-play? my parents call it a “play-pen.” this linguistic development is amusing to them. i kind of think they’re right to be amused. i’m not sure if it’s funny that we can’t handle product names that evoke a sense of our children as animals, or if it’s funny that we can’t accept that our children basically are (sometimes) just animalistic things to be contained. but they’re right that there’s some plausible story behind this product’s evolution that says something sweetly laughable about those of us on this end of it. [click to continue…] mary midgley by gina schouten on october 29, 2018 i’ve been learning just a little bit about mary midgley, who wasn’t really on my radar before her death earlier this month. i enjoyed this in particular, from here: ““i started with plato before i ever went to college… one day, i picked a little book off the bookshelf and said, ‘this might be quite fun.’ i decided it was quite fun.” there was a pause. “i could have picked up spinoza.” she looked slightly alarmed at the possibility.” i certainly didn’t pick up any philosophy from off the bookshelf before i went to college, but i’ve been trying to remember which philosopher i read first once i got there (and trying to imagine the consequences of lots of possibilities that i’m pretty sure are counter-factual). i think the first philosopher i read as a philosopher was king. cool-headed deliberation is the job, after all. by gina schouten on october 5, 2018 i’ve been reading that the deliberations over kavanaugh’s appointment in light of blasey ford’s allegations against him are firing up voters on the right in the sense that those voters, like kavanaugh, find the mere investigation to be crazy, a moral outrage, incomprehensible. i’ve never felt so strongly like i’m living in a completely different reality than those who disagree with me politically. this makes me want to say why i think what i think as plainly as i can, because however wrong it might be, i’m almost certain it isn’t crazy or immoral or incomprehensible. before the testimony, i thought only that further inquiry was in order. now, in light of kavanaugh’s testimony, and independent of blasey ford’s, i think kavanaugh has shown himself to be unfit for appointment to the supreme court. here’s why. [click to continue…] good parenting vs. good citizenship? by gina schouten on september 13, 2018 i’ve been a parent now for six months and change, and i have exactly nothing figured out. i have gotten pretty good at thinking of things in terms of stark tradeoffs. hooray, he fell asleep while i was nursing him, and stayed asleep when he went into his crib! (crap. this means a missed opportunity to put him down “drowsy but awake,” and thus to train him to fall asleep on his own.) hooray, i am really enjoying singing this song to him right now! (crap. this temporary alignment of my interests and his surely means i am losing all ability to discern my own interests when they diverge from his.) don’t judge me too harshly for this insanity. everything written about parenting seems expressly intended to make its readers think of their choices in terms of tradeoffs. (seriously. if you don’t want your kid to be sleeping in your bed when he’s sixteen, you must put him down drowsy but awake!) and a lot about our social environment seems expressly intended to generate tradeoffs. take just one example: privileged parents generally face a choice between schooling options that middle-class parenting culture approves as best for their children, and schooling options that progressive politics regards as best ethically. a fair bit of attention has been paid to this choice in popular media over the past week, largely in response to a book by margaret hagerman about how progressive, middle-class parents make decisions—decisions about where to live and thus what schools their kids will attend, and with whom, etc.—that perpetuate racial inequality. this is to be welcomed. it’s an important issue. while the tradeoff is generated by policy-level decisions—our practices for funding schools, our willingness to tolerate residential segregation by race and social class, our willingness to tolerate the extreme social inequality that makes that residential segregation so consequential—the policy failure generates seriously difficult decisions for individuals. the philosophical considerations that bear on those decisions are complex. i want to quibble with the way the ethical tradeoff is being framed in the popular media discussions of it, encouraged, perhaps, by the way hagerman herself sometimes frames it. consider this remark from her interview in the atlantic: “i really think—and this might sound kind of crazy—that white parents, and parents in general, need to understand that all children are worthy of their consideration. this idea that your own child is the most important thing—that’s something we could try to rethink. when affluent white parents are making these decisions about parenting, they could consider in some way at least how their decisions will affect not only their kid, but other kids. this might mean a parent votes for policies that would lead to the best possible outcome for as many kids as possible, but might be less advantageous for their own child. my overall point is that in this moment when being a good citizen conflicts with being a good parent, i think that most white parents choose to be good parents, when, sometimes at the very least, they should choose to be good citizens.” (italics mine.) contrary to hagerman’s worry, this does not sound even kind of crazy, and i hope her work helps to make it sound less crazy even to those who ultimately disagree with it. but we shouldn’t frame the tradeoff the way hagerman does in this quote. it’s misleading and it’s bad marketing. [click to continue…] the rational grounds for (anti-racist) optimism by gina schouten on january 12, 2018 thanks to the crooked timber bloggers for this opportunity! i’m very excited to be joining the group! i just finished reading the twentieth anniversary edition of why are all the black kids sitting together in the cafeteria?, a 2017 update to the 1997 book by beverly daniel tatum about racial identity development. tatum begins the long and excellent prologue to the new edition with the question: are things getting better? in reading the prologue, one gets the sense that the answer is quite clearly that they are not, and indeed, tatum confirms this at the end of the book: “as i was writing the prologue for the twentieth-anniversary edition of this book, i was struck by how much bad news there was in it. the events of the last two decades have done little to improve the quality of life for those most negatively impacted by the structural racism of our society. recognizing and acknowledging the persistence of residential and school segregation; the economic inequality that grows from limited access to socioeconomically diverse social networks and high-quality education as well as continued discrimination in the workplace; and the stranglehold of mass incarceration, unequal justice, and growing voter disenfranchisement left me feeling disheartened. but i am an optimist by nature and i have lived long enough to know that meaningful change is possible. i was determined not to give in to a sense of despair but rather to actively seek out signs of hope—stories of people making a difference and promising practices that could move others to meaningful action. i found that these signs of hope are everywhere” (343). tatum goes on, in the epilogue, to “share some of what i found in hopes that the examples will uplift you as they uplifted me” (343). tatum’s stories are uplifting. but they don’t make me feel optimistic about the future. some are about local initiatives like the atlanta friendship initiative or the community coalition on race in the towns of south orange and maplewood, new jersey. most are about things taking place on elite and liberal arts college campuses. but if tatum is right, in the rest of her book, about how our racial identities form and when, developmentally, things begin to go wrong (spoiler alert: childhood and adolescence matter, a lot), then i don’t see why isolated anti-racist efforts of the type that she catalogues should give us much hope. [click to continue…] recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter