skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events github acquires npm, plans to improve infrastructure and experience justin tadlock · march 17, 2020 · 9 comments github announced yesterday that it had acquired the popular javascript package service npm for an undisclosed amount. npm, inc. was the company behind the node package manager, npm registry, and npm cli. the company is shuttering its doors, but the future of the npm service looks bright with this acquisition. currently, npm serves over 1.3 million packages with 75 billion downloads every month. over the past decade, the service has solidified itself as a vital part of the modern web. at least 12 million developers use npm to manage javascript dependencies. in recent years, it has become a necessary piece of core wordpress, plugin, and theme development. the wordpress software currently has 71 packages available through the public npm registry. as the platform continues relying on javascript in the coming years, the number of packages should continue increasing. “there are few unmitigated successes or failures in the real world,” wrote isaac schlueter in a post on the npm blog. “but this is a win, and a good one, for me and the team and the entire javascript community.” the merging of npm and github will make sense for many developers. because the two services are used in conjunction so often, it can be hard to tell where one ends and the other begins to the uninitiated. github is an online service built to make it easier to collaborate and work on top of the git version control system. it is social-coding on a massive scale. many javascript repositories hosted on github are then submitted to the npm registry. other developers can then use npm to manage their dependencies on a per-project level. nat friedman, ceo of github, said npm will always remain available and free of charge in the company’s announcement. github plans to invest in the registry infrastructure and improve the core experience, particularly with work that has already gone into version 7 of the npm cli. he also stressed the company will garner feedback from the javascript community to mold npm’s future. “looking further ahead, we’ll integrate github and npm to improve the security of the open source software supply chain, and enable you to trace a change from a github pull request to the npm package version that fixed it,” wrote friedman. “open source security is an important global issue, and with the recent launch of the github security lab and github’s built-in security advisories, we are well-positioned to make a difference.” schlueter expressed that he feels like this is an ideal move for npm, largely in part to github’s commitment to open source. “as we dug into the technical and strategic plans for how npm would fit into the vision of github moving forward, it became clear that this isn’t just a good option for the javascript community – it’s significantly better than what npm, inc., can provide on its own,” he said. “i’ve said countless times before that i wouldn’t let the registry go someplace that won’t take care of it.” for javascript programmers, this change should not cause any issues. it should be business as usual. with a company as large as github and the infrastructure it can provide, developers will likely be looking for new features and improved tools. “there are some awesome opportunities for improvement in the npm experience, to meaningfully improve life for js devs in countless large and small ways,” said schlueter. “we’ll be making things more reliable, convenient, and connected for everyone across our vast interdependent javascript ecosystem.” share this: click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on telegram (opens in new window) click to share on whatsapp (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) like this: like loading... posted in news tagged github, npm 9 comments x-raym march 17, 2020, 6:42 pm · reply it worths remembering that github is owned by microsoft. so ultimately, npm is owned by microsoft now. loading... report jakub mikita march 18, 2020, 5:00 am · reply why is this a problem? loading... report in reply to jakub mikita gerd march 18, 2020, 7:53 am · reply why is this a problem? products owned by corporations can disappear at any time. remember windows phone? loading... report in reply to gerd justin tadlock march 18, 2020, 10:13 am · reply this particular product was already owned by a corporation — npm, inc. what changed is the corporation that owns it. there’s probably always going to be a little distrust of microsoft within the open-source world. however, they have kept github running without really changing the existing formula. github, at least to me, has only continued improving. i don’t see npm going anywhere given how microsoft has embraced open-source in recent years and how much of the modern web relies on it. loading... report in reply to jakub mikita mihai march 18, 2020, 10:58 am · reply i don’t think the problem is that npm was acquired by microsoft or any other big corporation out there. the problem is that those big corporations are buying companies and the web is getting centralized around just a couple of them. loading... report david do march 18, 2020, 8:45 am · reply whether a company acquired by a large corporation worries or trusts it is today. tomorrow is always refreshing. so use it today and backup if you need it. loading... report chris march 18, 2020, 4:52 am · reply i think that´s not a problem that microsoft or github has now bought npm. i see the whole thing positively. a large corporation with enough capital ensures that good tools stay free and rewards the teams behind the tools for their great work. thanks for the good article. greetings loading... report corinna scher march 18, 2020, 1:05 pm · reply discuss: would it be a problem for you if microsoft or google would buy automattic inc.? loading... report sajan kota march 22, 2020, 12:56 am · reply congratulations to npm, inc and the team behind it. future of npm definitely looks very bright. i have no problem if a big corporation like github or mircosoft buys npm. good luck to everyone involved :-). loading... report leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. join the discussion via emailget only replies to your comment, the best of the rest, as well as a daily recap of all comments on this post. no more than a few emails daily, which you can reply to/unsubscribe from directly from your inbox. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. %d bloggers like this: