skip to content why github? features → code review project management integrations actions packages security team management hosting customer stories → security → enterprise explore explore github → learn & contribute topics collections trending learning lab open source guides connect with others events community forum github education marketplace pricing plans → compare plans contact sales nonprofit → education → in this repository all github ↵ jump to ↵ no suggested jump to results in this repository all github ↵ jump to ↵ in this repository all github ↵ jump to ↵ sign in sign up maxboeck / emergency-site watch 6 star 313 fork 20 code issues 0 pull requests 0 actions projects 0 security insights dismiss join github today github is home to over 40 million developers working together to host and review code, manage projects, and build software together. sign up a template for emergency information websites https://emergency-site.dev 82 commits 2 branches 0 packages 0 releases 3 contributors mit html javascript css html 42.2% javascript 39.2% css 18.6% branch: master new pull request find file clone or download clone with https use git or checkout with svn using the web url. open in desktop download zip downloading want to be notified of new releases in maxboeck/emergency-site? sign in sign up launching github desktop if nothing happens, download github desktop and try again. go back launching github desktop if nothing happens, download github desktop and try again. go back launching xcode if nothing happens, download xcode and try again. go back launching visual studio if nothing happens, download the github extension for visual studio and try again. go back latest commit maxboeck update readme latest commit cdc6420 mar 27, 2020 files permalink type name latest commit message commit time failed to load latest commit information. admin move external stylesheet location mar 24, 2020 eleventy enable html minify mar 21, 2020 src update docs mar 27, 2020 .eleventy.js add offline script to service worker mar 24, 2020 .gitignore initial commit mar 19, 2020 .prettierrc initial commit mar 19, 2020 license add license and readme mar 20, 2020 readme.md update readme mar 27, 2020 netlify.toml set meta config as env env variables in template mar 27, 2020 package-lock.json clean output dir on build mar 24, 2020 package.json clean output dir on build mar 24, 2020 readme.md emergency site template a boilerplate for emergency information websites. (wip) (demo site) in case of emergency, many organizations need a quick way to publish critical information. existing cms websites are often unable to handle sudden spikes in traffic, and local infrastructure might be damaged, leaving people with poor mobile connections. this project aims to enable developers to quickly publish a simple website that can withstand large amounts of traffic and will work even under extreme conditions. it is built on the rule of least power, using simple technologies for maximum resilience. features static files generated by eleventy optimized for first roundtrip (> 14kb) basic styling for accessibility one request, inlined css netlify cms for collaborative content editing offline support with service worker getting started to publish a website with this template, there are two options, depending on your technical skillset. choose which one describes you best: i'm not a developer, i just want to set up a website i have basic knowledge of how to use npm and the command line read the getting started docs one-click deployment the easiest way to go live is by forking this repo and deploying it to netlify. you can do that by clicking this button: to customize the site, edit src/data/meta.json with your details, and replace the markdown files in src/posts with your content. local development to run this locally, you need to install node first. you can run these on the command line in the root of your project: npm start: starts development server npm run build: generates a production build npm run debug: runs eleventy with debug output to customize the site, edit src/data/meta.js with your details, or set the corresponding environment variables in a new .env file in the root folder of the project. © 2020 github, inc. terms privacy security status help contact github pricing api training blog about you can’t perform that action at this time. you signed in with another tab or window. reload to refresh your session. you signed out in another tab or window. reload to refresh your session.