instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "giveaway" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: giveaway rebecca 2 min read february 9, 2019 9 replies ottawa: enter to win tickets to a family show – emily brown and the thing around ottawa this giveaway is in partnership with the city of ottawa readers, you know how much i love sharing theatre/stage shows that you can bring the kids too! and this time, i have a giveaway too! you have a chance to win four tickets to the 1:30 pm performance of emily brown and the thing at meridian theatres at centrepointe on february 16th! here’s a bit about the show from the website: in this magical, musical production, follow emily and her old grey rabbit stuffy, stanley, on an adventure to find out why the thing is crying outside. they explore the dark and scary wood, the whirling wastes and beyond, to find the thing’s cuddly, his bedtime milk, and his medicine… but nothing seems to help him settle. they soon discover what is really bothering the thing. a gentle message that there really is no need to be scared of the dark. “little first-timers to the theatre will delight in this gentle tale about the really important things in life – getting the right stuffy to sleep with, and how everyone is scared of something, sometimes. i’m sure attendance at the show will be a lifetime memory of precious time shared between the children and their special grown-up.” – allan sansom, artistic producer and manager, meridian theatres @ centrepointe i also love that an hour in advance of the show, the kids can participate in a special activity by making bunny puppets! if you are interested in tickets, you can find them for the 1:30 pm or the 4 pm show on the meridian theatres at centrepointe website. enter to win for your chance to win, simply comment below and let me know if this would be the first time bringing the kiddos in your life to a stage show, or if you have taken them before – i think every time is special! the giveaway is open to ottawa area tickets and is for 4 tickets to the 1:30 pm show only. one winner will be drawn from eligible entries on wednesday, february 13th at 12 noon and will be contacted regarding the tickets. good luck! rebecca 3 min read december 4, 2018 64 replies enter to win! a terra20 gift basket (valued at $125) eco living, giving have you been a busy elf prepping for the holidays? baking, shopping, decorating, getting the kids concert outfits ready and more? it’s early in december but we are in full holiday mode around here. no matter how you spend december (whether you celebrate the season or not), it’s a good time of year to reflect on some of our habits and make a few resolutions for the new year, in particular, when it comes to our shopping decisions and the effect they have on our environment, our bodies and our futures. i’ve teamed up with terra20, one of my favourite stores, to bring you a very special giveaway, just for you! throughout the past many years, you’ve read about my own personal shift to more conscious, sustainable habits in our home and when it comes to my personal care products for myself and family. over the years, i’ve become more aware of the reusable containers and packaging we use in the home, beauty products that i buy for myself, bathing products for the kids, cleaning supplies, and other household decisions. i slowly, but surely, have tried to become more ‘green’ in my efforts and i know many of you have as well, or are interested in doing that do. enter to win a custom created gift package from @exploreterra20 and @bitofmomsense click to tweet want to win? if you want to start making changes in the new year, i applaud you. my friends at terra20 have great information in store and on their website to help you find the products that you are looking for (and i have been writing monthly articles on their site with information i think you’ll find helpful too!) so that’s why i’m excited to have teamed up with them to offer one lucky blog reader the chance to win a custom gift box from terra20. this gift set is going to be personally curated by myself and their team to find the best products based on your needs (and of course it will include some of my personal favourites!) i’ll be in touch with the winner to ask a few questions about products of interest to ensure we create the best gift for them. terra20 and i want to help you make more eco-friendly buying decisions in future and we are hoping this is one step in the right direction! enter to win simply visit the terra20 website or blog and comment on this post below letting us know what changes you are making this holiday season to be more eco-friendly, or what you want to do in the new year to take steps for more sustainable, green habits. and by random, one lucky reader will be chosen as the winner. use this little rafflecopter entry form to ensure you get all your entries counted! a rafflecopter giveaway thank you for entering and taking the next steps for a greener future. this giveaway is open to canadian residents (void in qc) for those of legal age. one winner will be selected and contacted to arrange to mail a special gift. giveaway closes december 10 th , 2018 at 9 pm december 11th at 11:59 pm est. that’s actually more time to enter! sorry for the mix up! the rafflecopter form is the correct date. prize is estimated around $125 retail value. rebecca 2 min read november 14, 2018 3 replies giveaway: enter to win a holiday craft workshop for the family! (ottawa) around ottawa enter to win! there are two trim your tree family craft workshops happening at the nepean visual arts centre this year – on december 1 and 8th. currently, the december 1st time is full, but there is a waitlist and spots are limited for the december 8th class. book yours today! enter to win your way into the sold out trim your tree workshop on december 1! just like little holiday elves, your family will love the diy craft time hosted at the nepean visual arts centre in nepean. you may remember a few years ago my family went and we loved it. the kids were surprised with hot chocolates and all of us created the cutest reindeer that still remain a significant part of our christmas decorating! we loved the bonding time and i think you and your family will too (or maybe you and your friend want to take your kids, or maybe you and your sisters, or grandparents – there are endless combinations of who you can bring!) but registration is for four people (and one needs to be an adult) during the workshop you’ll make some holiday crafts together that you can keep and cherish for years to come. enter to win a family holiday craft workshop in #ottawa on december 1 thanks to the nepean visual arts centre via @bitofmomsense click to tweet view this post on instagram a post shared by rebecca s (@bitofmomsense) on nov 26, 2016 at 1:00pm pst if you want to win your way into the december 1 workshop, read on! the nepean visual arts centre is offering one spot (for four people) to a lucky blog reader! think your kids will love this event (like mine did!) to enter, comment below and tell me your favourite holiday tradition! you and your family have the chance to win 4 seats at the upcoming trim your tree workshop on december 1st! more details are on their website. giveaway is open to ottawa area residents and is non-transferable with no cash value. this is for one family admission to the workshop (four people) on december 1st, between 1 pm and 3 pm. giveaway ends on november 19th, 9 pm est. (update – i’ve extended the time to 9 pm because i’m not around most of the day monday!) rebecca 1 min read december 24, 2017 80 replies giveaway! enter to win a $50 cineplex gift card and star wars soup! entertainment i’m sneaking in one last giveaway before the year ends because it’s too good not to! my friends at campbell’s soups are offering an out-of-this-world giveaway to one lucky bit of momsense reader. you have a chance to win a $50 cineplex gift card (hint: use it to see the last jedi for the first time, or the third, i won’t judge!) and four cans of their newly labeled the last jedi soups. to enter: comment below and tell me your favourite star wars character (from any of the movies!) for a bonus entry, follow me on instagram and then leave another comment here with your own instagram handle. enter to win a $50 cineplex gift card and star wars soup from campbell’s! via @bitofmomsense click to tweet rules and regulations: open to canadian residents of legal age, void in qc. giveaway closes on december 29 at 5 pm est. one entry per person. one winner will be chosen from valid entries and contacted to arrange shipping from a third party. good luck and may the force be with you! disclosure: i was given the soups and some star wars goodies but wanted to participate in this giveaway to give you the chance to win too! rebecca 2 min read november 13, 2017 17 replies get your free ottawa senators onesie (plus enter this giveaway!) parenting are you a family that loves hockey? or maybe you have a sister or cousin who is a complete hockey fan? if you cheer for the ottawa senators and know a wee one, you’ll love their new initiative! the ottawa senators and canadian tire are helping their little fans cheer for the team by giving away free sensies (a senators onesie, sized 6 months) to fans. click here for details on how to register for your sensie (they are available for pick up at one of 11 canadian tire locations across ottawa and the surrounding area). #ottawa senators fans! register to get your free sens onesie for the baby fan in your life! via @bitofmomsense click to tweet not only that, but they’ve offered my readers a fantastic chance to say go sens go with their baby (but don’t forget to go here to register for your sensie!) enter to win a baby superfan kit! want to win all the goodies you see here? one lucky reader will! the senators super fan kit is valued at over $100 and includes everything for your little sens fan to start their fan journey: the sensie protective earmuffs a plush spartacat a bib a burp cloth and a canadian tire gift card for mom or dad! to enter, comment below and let me know how old your little sens fan is! (hoping to win one for your niece/nephew/grandchild/friend’s baby? that’s great!) good luck! enter to win a baby super fan ottawa senators prize pack via @bitofmomsense click to tweet giveaway ends on november 19th, 5 pm est. it’s open to canadian residents of legal age, void in quebec. one winner will be chosen at random from eligible entries and contacted via email. prize will be mailed by a third party working with bit of momsense. disclosure: i received a package myself to share this giveaway, but i know i have many readers who are fans so i was happy to participate! rebecca 3 min read september 26, 2016 23 replies enter to win a $100 grocery card! #focusonthefacts around ottawa this past weekend we attended the carp fair. i love rural fairs. they remind me of my childhood. growing up, it was a big deal to go to the fair. as young kids, it meant that your parents spoiled you with fair food and you got to go on your favourite rides (i loved the scrambler!). as we got older, we were free range, armed with some of our own cash, we met up with school friends and took off to explore and have fun. now as adults, we get to share in those experiences with our kids. i still insist on getting mini donuts at any fair i go to, and i think my kids appreciate my indulgence. we enjoyed the ferris wheel and checking out the old antique farm tools and supplies. while we were there, we also stopped by the nutritional facts education campaign tent to play a game for our chance to win a grocery gift card. my kids participated in learning about the nutrition facts table (nft), something i look at each time i go grocery shopping, and answered questions. they then got chips to play fact-o, a plinko style game. if you know my children, they love trivia, and they love games so this was perfect for them. questions about % daily value, serving size and more were answered correctly by the kids after listening to some information. it was a neat opportunity to chat with them about what we look for when shopping at the grocery store and on the packages of their favourite foods. it was a lot of fun at the fair and we were so lucky to have glorious weather too! enter to win a $100 grocery gift card the nurtitional facts education campaign is giving away a $100 grocery card to one lucky bit of momsense reader! yay! to enter, simply tell me below what one thing you look for when reading labels on your food at the grocery store. are you interested in %daily value of fibre? do you look at sodium levels? sugar? share below in the comments! plus visit the nutrition facts website to enter for a chance to win a $300 grocery gift card! rules and regulations one winner will be drawn at random from eligible entries. winner will be contacted to arrange gift card to be mailed by the pr company working with bit of momsense. giveaway is open to canadian residents of legal age, void in quebec. giveaway ends october 6, 2016 at 5 pm est. the winner can select which store they would like the card to be from. options are: walmart, loblaws (lcl), sobey’s, federated co-op, metro, costco wholesale and overwaitea food group (ofg) disclosure: i am working in partnership with the nutrition facts education campaign and receive compensation for my involvement, but opinions are my own. rebecca 1 min read august 25, 2016 13 replies all you need is love…and netflix {win 3 months of netflix!} entertainment {giveaway closed. congrats robyn!} there are few cartoons that my husband is interested in watching. i’m a big fan of quite a few, and while he definitely likes lego cartoons and those sort, it wasn’t until the beat bugs were announced on netflix that he was really excited to watch. set to the songs of the beatles, it’s no surprise that beat bugs has caught the attention of this family. it’s fun to know that there are current muscians covering the songs as the beat bugs learn about friendship. this isn’t the only new family friendly program that netflix has launched this summer so if you have been outside playing in the gorgeous weather (and i don’t blame you!) be sure to scroll through all the new offerings for the next rainy day. enter to win 3 months of netflix who doesn’t want more netflix? now is your chance to win! to enter, simply comment below and tell me your favourite beatles song. for a bonus entry, do a little cover of all you need is love (the beat bugs title song) in a quick video, share it and tag me on social (@bitofmomsense) with #beatbugs. then add your social media link in the comments below. rules and regulations: this giveaway is open to canadian residents, void in qc. giveaway will take place on september 1, 5 pm est. one winner will be chosen at random from eligible entries. one entry per person via comments, one extra entry for a social media post added to the comments. winner will receive a code for 3 months of netflix. disclosure: i am a part of the netflix stream team and receive perks as part of my partnership. all opinions are my own. rebecca 2 min read november 10, 2015 64 replies ottawa giveaway: win a $50 gift card to tag along toys play, shopping you know how much i love tag along toys. yes, patti and her stores have been a long time advertiser, but i’ve also been a long time customer. the bags of birthday and christmas presents i currently have stored in my parent’s basement from the store is just one indication. over the years, i’ve considered what makes tag along toys so unique and different from big boxed stores or other even the online shopping experience. there are certainly a few things that stand out and customer service is probably at the top of the list. countless times i’ve seen questions on social media and in store that are handled with care by patti and her staff. no question is too small, too troublesome. the other reason i think i love the store is that the gifts i can find there for the kids in my life are so different and fun. from science to crafts to baby items, it’s easy to find the perfect gift that i know the child won’t have already. have you seen the holiday catalogue? it’s full of fantastic toys! shopping local is important. i think we should all try to spend a little more of our dollars locally each year, month and week. this weekend, on november 14, it’s neighbourhood toy store day! tag along toys is celebrating with a fun filled, star wars themed activity day in kanata. click on the event page on facebook for all the details. there will be prizes and giveaways too! enter to win one lucky bit of momsense reader will also win a $50 gift card to tag along toys that can mailed or emailed and used online or in either store. to enter, visit the tag along toys website and tell me one thing on your child’s wish list this year (or a gift a child in your life would love). comment below! good luck and happy shopping! rules and regulations: giveaway will end on friday, november 13 at 12 pm est. one winner will be drawn at random. one entry per person. open to ottawa area residents, excluding qc. rebecca 0 min read march 8, 2015 no reply win with shoppers drug mart and tell us how you get the most out of life blogging, lifestyle this month, i’ve teamed up with shoppers drug mart to bring you a few fun announcements and chances to win! the first, is all month long, you’ll see 10 bloggers (myself included) share some of our favourite articles and products from shoppers drug mart’s life brand website. in addition, you have a chance to win a $50 gift card just by submitting how you get the most out of life. meanwhile, mark your calendars for march 26 and join us for the #getthemostoutoflife twitter chat! you’ll have the chance to win great prizes and shoppers drug mart products, plus, participate in the hallmark of all great twitter chats – fun conversations! see you there and be sure to follow the #getthemostoutoflife hashtag on social media for personal stories, thoughts, articles, product suggestions and more! rebecca 3 min read may 2, 2013 15 replies guest post: mother’s day gifts from terra20 plus a chance to win! lifestyle our fabulous and earth-friendly advertiser, terra20, has put together this wonderful list of gifts for mom. there’s a little something for everyone here. you can follow terra20 on twitter and facebook for more information. plus, keep reading to find out how you can win one of two $50 terra20 gift cards! _________________________________ mother, may i? by rachelle mesheau, terra20 moms are special. they bolster our confidence when its low, they champion our successes and they help us to become the people we are today. mother’s day is sunday may 12th and we have a ton of great gifts for mom in our top 20 for may. i thought i would pull out a few that really caught my eye, and play with the idea of how you could create your own one-of-a-kind gift baskets. for the spa-loving mom at terra20 we’ve got endless spa ideas, but i’ve mixed and matched a glo white twill bath sheet, with tea forte’s new teas for the heart collection, a bean’stock soap and a delightful first blush candle. for the gardening mom why not combine consonant’s perfect sunscreen for those long afternoons in the garden, a beautiful chapelwood premium eco seed feeder and a lavender bath soak by bean’stock to soothe those sore muscles. of course, don’t forget our new addition – dig it gardening gloves, with an interior reinforced pillow top built into the inside of the glove, to protect mom’s manicure and nails! for the mom who loves to entertain the wilton warming platter is a must for everyone who loves to entertain and the global amici rainbow pitcher is perfect for lemonade and summer parties. the mom that loves to cook will enjoy fire in the kitchen’s veggie blaze seasoning, as well as some serving bowls from ecologie. for the mom with an eye for fashion any of these would be perfect for the mom who has a penchant for fashion. i’ve included icu cat-eye sunglasses, gourmet body treats mineral foundation (which is incredible!) a blue q overnight bag, and a fashion-forward nicole bridger jacket. before mother’s day, come and check out what we have to offer! ask our staff for some suggestions and see how you can create your own one-of-a-kind gift for your own one-of-a-kind mom. __________________________________ enter to win you have a chance to win one of two terra20 $50 gift cards thanks to our advertiser terra20! to win, visit the terra20 website and comment below telling me which of their may top 20 picks would be on your list too! ( i have at least 4 things i’ve been eyeing that are on that list!!) you’ll find the top 20 list link on the home page, but why not stay and browse a bit too? 😉 giveaway is open to ottawa area residents, excluding quebec. one entry per person. two winners will be drawn at random and emailed. winners have 48 hours to respond or else a new winner will be chosen. gift cards will be available for pick up at terra20. giveaway ends wednesday, may 8, 9 pm est. older entries facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.