about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews category: giving birth natural induction methods: examining the evidence mar 13, 2020 neve spicer an unbiased, evidence-based look at natural induction methods. quickly compare methods: are they backed up by science? which are effective? which are risky? read more » doulas: 17 science-backed benefits mar 13, 2020 neve spicer looking for the science behind doulas? this round-up of 17 compelling studies examines evidence-based benefits of doula-support. read more » the power of positive birthing affirmations (infographic) updated sep 4, 2019 neve spicer positive birthing affirmations are simple, yet remarkably effective. by repeating positive statements to yourself, you confirm their truth to your subconscious mind. this can have a powerful effect on … read more » 10 reasons why hypnobirthing is for you updated mar 12, 2020 neve spicer if you haven’t heard of hypnobirthing before, you might be a bit unsure as to what it is. don’t worry it is not some hippy or mother-earth thing! read more » 5 reasons it’s great to have older siblings at the birth updated mar 12, 2020 neve spicer my husband and i chose to have a home waterbirth for our second child, dara. at the time, his big sister, leyla, was three and a half. she was … read more » 10 positive and inspiring birthing videos: release the fear! updated nov 22, 2018 neve spicer giving birth can be something that women dread. from a young age, we are fed the story that it will be the most excruciating experience we’ll ever go through. … read more » we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest