glittering girly gwent gaming (glittering < girly gwent > gaming) home about the authors about the blog archive welcome to glittering girly gwent gaming! welcome gwenches and gwentlemen! this blog is about gwent the witcher card game through the eyes of two girls. experience the dark, grey witcher world displayed in the card game through rose-coloured glasses. silver for monsters, steel for humans, and glitter for everyone! the gwenches do you wonder why posts are written in two colours? read more about the unlikely couple behind glittering girly gwent gaming (gggg) here. princess poppy cute part-time online princess easha dustfeather notoriously pessimistic demon cat the blog the story of gggg. read about its origin, purpose, mile stones and why 3 gs are not enough here. "why gg when you can gg twice?" motto of glittering girly gwent gaming introducing d*ck pics and our first mehta snapshot princess poppy march 12, 2020 gwenches love d*ck pics, so we are sharing some with you. read our first gggg mehta snapshot to find out which deck not to play and how to stay motivated if you choose to do so nontheless.read more make love, not waifu wars! glittering girly gwent gaming february 16, 2020 while the merciless war of who is the best witcher waifu is being waged, glittering girly gwent gaming takes a closer look at the three ladies' card backs. learn why the number of snakes around a staff matters and read our opinion on the design of this most recent vanity addition to shupe's stock.read more our next milestone: one thousand page views! glittering girly gwent gaming january 21, 2020 a thank you to our readers, a look back on gggg so far and looking forward to a bright, pink future.read more all i want for christmas is… a new witcher tale! glittering girly gwent gaming december 19, 2019 brace yourselves: not only winter, but also a new witcher tale is coming! at least we would wish for one. after thronebreaker for northern realms, the second game could be skellige-themend and glittery girly gwent gaming got an exclusive preview for it - in fact so exclusive that even cdpr does not know the game exists. (probably because it does not.) nevertheless you can read about it's features, requirements and story.read more older posts subscribe to gggg via email: subscribe and let an invisible pink unicorn deliver notifications of new posts by email. join 16 other subscribers email address subscribe search: search: follow glittering girly gwent gaming on wordpress.com glittering girly gwent gaming is an unofficial fan site and not affiliated with cd projekt red.