welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog 8 sustainability courses to help you build a better future published on: jul 19, 2017 by zahra islam 7269 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in 2017, we know global warming is no longer a myth, but a rapidly increasing issue worldwide. earlier this month, world leaders gathered at the g20 summit and established sustainable development and growth as one of our world’s primary goals. the leaders’ discussed how they will create new jobs to promote the spread of digital technology for social development, with their main focus being preventing... read more about 8 sustainability courses to help you build a better future celebrate earth day: learn to save our planet published on: apr 21, 2017 by sara reich 8995 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post happy earth day! for nearly 50 years, people around the world have celebrated earth day to support environmental movements and build awareness around issues such as climate change. the earth day campaign this year is environmental and climate literacy. in order to change the way we treat our planet, we need to be knowledgeable about the environmental issues we face today and the actions we can take... read more about celebrate earth day: learn to save our planet environmental challenges: why we all need to take action published on: sep 06, 2016 by environmental studies: a global perspective course team 11366 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this is a guest blog post from curtin university’s environmental studies: a global perspective course team. last year was a major win for environmentalists across the globe, with the paris agreement acknowledging that climate change has been influenced by human activity and setting a goal to limit the global average surface temperature increase to 1.5°c above the baseline average. in spite of this step forward, the reality... read more about environmental challenges: why we all need to take action knowledge is my superpower: edx and x-men join forces published on: may 10, 2016 by justine goulart 6632 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to announce that we have teamed up with 20th century fox to offer our learners a chance to win an exclusive x-men experience as part of the edx x-men: apocalypse sweepstakes. one lucky learner will be awarded the grand prize, which includes a trip for two to new york city for an experience with hollywood special effects artists to transform you into... read more about knowledge is my superpower: edx and x-men join forces what you can do to save our planet published on: apr 22, 2016 by monil shah 9580 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post on april 22, 1970, thousands of colleges and universities across america organized protests against the deterioration of the environment, marking the first-ever earth day. more than 20 million americans marched through the streets & parks, in order to fight against environmental problems – oil spills, polluting factories, toxic dumps, and more nearly a half a century later, we still find ourselves facing many of the same... read more about what you can do to save our planet go beyond groundhog day – learn science and philosophy published on: feb 02, 2016 by justine goulart 4332 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post punxsutawney phil did not see his shadow. so, is it really an early spring? every year, on february 2nd, punxsutawney phil emerges from his burrow in the early morning hours as thousands watch in suspense to see if he will see his shadow. legend goes, if punxsutawney phil sees his shadow, there will be six more weeks of winter weather in the u.s. if he doesn’t... read more about go beyond groundhog day – learn science and philosophy what’s happening with planet earth? published on: jan 28, 2016 by thomas hobiger 13733 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this is a guest blog post from chalmers university of technology’s sensing planet earth – from core to outer space and sensing planet earth – water and ice course instructor. do you want to know more about the current state of planet earth? did you follow the united nations climate change conference in paris last year? join us in our upcoming moocs, sensing planet earth – from core to... read more about what’s happening with planet earth? health, climate change and data analysis. courses starting soon on edx! published on: jan 08, 2016 by justine goulart 4584 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn how to live longer, how to properly proofread an essay or how to know if the water you are drinking is safe. with over 800 courses offered in a wide variety of subject areas, edx helps you better understand the world around you and improves your everyday life. enroll in a course today! why tropical coastal ecosystems on edx was an awesome mooc published on: nov 23, 2015 by becky pineo 4506 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this course review was written by andrea novicki for the duke cit blog. we’re always excited to read student reviews of edx courses, and getting positive feedback from andrea, a mooc creator herself, was an additional compliment! read on for a behind-the-scenes look at tropical coastal ecosystems from uqx, which starts again november 24. i miss my mooc! i just received my certificate in tropical... read more about why tropical coastal ecosystems on edx was an awesome mooc space, philosophy and analytics. courses starting soon on edx! published on: nov 20, 2015 by justine goulart 4954 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn the history behind space travel, how to use business intelligence tools to share data, or discover the depths of your own creativity and thought process. check out an edx course today and learn from the world’s leading universities and institutions. engaging new courses are starting soon! page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close