global gold and silver | nyc & nj jewelry buyers marketing, seo & ppc think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 global gold and silver marketing global gold and silver buys and sells more gold and silver, while expanding their marketing effort with google adwords. global gold & silver was founded in 2008 and has become on the most trusted and reputable experts for jewelry, diamonds, and precious metals in the tri-state area. they buy and sell these items at their three locations which include manhattan, brooklyn, and new jersey. pay per click the challenge global gold & silver operates in the diamond district and faces hyper competition. they needed a well run google adwords account to be able to use their budget effectively and to know exactly where their sales where coming from. since they operate several locations, the campaign had to be optimized and advertised accordingly. the plan set up more tracking that would break out all of the sales, phone calls, and contact requests through the marketing efforts advertise a unique tool on their site which allowed customers to send photos of their items for instant quotes through google adwords target specific keywords and locations to make the most of the budget the results 0% decrease in cost per conversion 0% decrease in cost per click 0% increase in click through rate 0% increase in conversions get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha comments this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated after a nightmare experience with other marketing companies, i finally found a hard working group who actually know what they are doing. they handle all of my ads as and designed a website. business has doubled since we started. looking forward to more success. agape health wellness center dr. larry bennett view 100+ more testimonials i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials they have a team approach that allows them to efficiently work on your projects. their methods of communication is efficient as well. in the midst of working on our project now and already impressed! i would suggest smart sites to anyone looking for an all around great web development company. easw andy holst view 100+ more testimonials smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: case studies global gold and silver recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect