home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library food and drink recipes prevnext gluten free vegan strawberry crumble leyla preston mon 11th mar 2019 254shares share tweet pin i am a big fan of desserts, in all shapes, sizes and flavours. however, since opting for a plant-based diet, i do find it a struggle to enjoy desserts with my family and friends that don’t contain dairy products in them. so i have decided to veganise my own desserts and since the vegan trend is growing there are tons more products out in the market that assist me on my journey. my kids are huge fans of crumbles. i have made rhubarb and apple crumbles, and lots of desserts with fruit so i thought i’d go for the strawberry version this time and have come up with a recipe that contains no animal products in them. of course, each ingredient can be substituted with whatever ingredient you’re comfortable with. a strawberry crumble goes really well with ice cream on top so i found a lovely soya ice cream version from ciao gusto called the valsoia cream and sour cherry soya gelato and topped with fabbri minitopping wild strawberry syrup, which completed the deliciously sweet strawberry crumble. ocado is currently promoting a bundle offer at the moment where if you buy 1 valsoia ice cream and 1 fabbri syrup you will get 20% off. if you’re a fan of italian products, which i definitely am, then ocado has a special tab which brings together over 30 of italy’s most popular brands, so you can find what you’re looking for in the same place. many of the brands are still owned and run by the same families who established them, so they’re super authentic. so without further ado, here is my decadent gluten-free vegan strawberry crumble! table of contents gluten free vegan strawberry crumble ingredients for the base for the crumble method gluten free vegan strawberry crumble ingredients for the base 600g strawberries / 2 packets just over 2 tbsps of coconut palm sugar a knob of melted butter 2 tbsps. fabbri minitopping wild strawberry syrup for the crumble 50g oats just over a ½ cup of rice flour just over ½ cup fo coconut palm sugar 65 pecan nuts 8 ½ tbsps. of dairy free butter pinch of salt top with 2 scoops of valsoia cream and sour cherry soya gelato method preheat the oven to 180c/356f/gm4 find an ovenproof dish – i used a lovely oval one which was perfect remove the stalks and slice the strawberries uniformly and into a similar thickness. place at the bottom of the baking tray, next to each other. add the 2 tbsps of coconut palm sugar, a knob of melted butter and 2 tbsps of fabbri minitopping wild strawberry syrup over the strawberries and mix well. place the tray to the side. find a food processor add everything in this order – flour sugar oats nuts and butter with the oats, nuts and butter, pulse until you get a crumbly, sandy consistency add the crumble mixture to the top of the strawberries and smooth over until the strawberry mixture is covered place in the oven and bake for 25 minutes or until the crumble is golden and the liquid from the strawberries is bubbling serve straight away with a scoop – or two – of valsoia cream and sour cherry soya gelato! for extra indulgence add some more of the fabbri minitopping wild strawberry syrup on top! *collaborative feature post with ciao gusto* visit here for more recipes on motherhood diaries never miss a new post! don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:recipesstrawberry crumblevegan related posts baking cocoa, almond and raisin cookies ... october 2014 – degustabox product review... chocolate lemon mousse with a blackberry... vegan bean lasagne sweet potato chips, tomato and cheddar c... date & grape chocolate cake recipe may 2016 – degustabox food box – product... quorn meatballs and ‘getti (spaghetti) r... golden & peanut butter oreo vienett... how to make the most of the blackberry s... finn crisp lunchtime snacks maggi oriental soy & garlic chicken... maggi oriental soy & garlic chicken... recipe – snowcapped chocolate fond... march 2016 – degustabox product re... quorn – a healthy alternative to meat &#... sarson’s healthy twist on traditio... quorn cookery class at underground cooke... quorn mince vegetarian sausage rolls rec... honey & soy chicken (using schwartz... whoopi s’mores recipe 5-ingredient sweet and zesty roast chick... sarson’s cookery school – a vinegar kick... chicken stir fry recipe monkfish masala with red lentils, pickle... ho, ho, ho! jolly christmas pancake idea... bernard matthews brunch challenge – turk... fruity flapjacks fruity couscous salad – as part of... nursery rhymes finger food creations wit... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 254shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok