skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources goals happy new year! here’s a little motivation in the form of shameless self-promotion! january 1, 2014 by miranda marquit 2 comments it's a nice, pretty new year.i feel pretty good about this one, too. which is great. because for the last couple of years i've been more blegh at the outset of a new year than anything else.but i feel … continue reading about happy new year! here’s a little motivation in the form of shameless self-promotion! #fincon13: investing doesn’t have to be complicated october 22, 2013 by miranda marquit leave a comment … continue reading about #fincon13: investing doesn’t have to be complicated nerdiest christmas ever, a shiny new year, and the culmination of almost 20 years of wheel of time january 13, 2013 by miranda marquit leave a comment one of the things i love about blogging is that i can just put stuff out there. hardly anyone reads it, but it's kind of fun to write it anyway. especially when i really should be doing something … continue reading about nerdiest christmas ever, a shiny new year, and the culmination of almost 20 years of wheel of time disappointment and perseverance june 24, 2012 by miranda marquit 1 comment as americans, we love stories of scrappy underdogs, and surprising comebacks.this is not one of those stories.my son is playing baseball this year. he played in a coach pitch league last year that … continue reading about disappointment and perseverance yep. it’s a new year. january 4, 2012 by miranda marquit leave a comment hooray for a new year.it's a shiny new beginning.and, hopefully, it truly will be a new beginning for me. things were a little rough in 2011, mostly due to my inability to say no, a few transitions, … continue reading about yep. it’s a new year. #fincon11, hard choices and what’s next october 9, 2011 by miranda marquit 5 comments i've had a week to absorb what i learned at the financial blogger conference, and reflect on what i want to do next. (if you are interested in the slides, you can find them on the fincon web … continue reading about #fincon11, hard choices and what’s next go to page 1 go to page 2 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com