skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me golf around the world i am a 5-handicap golfer and i’ve played more than 300 rounds in 19+ countries. golf is my life. it’s my therapy. nothing makes me happier than being on a golf course. growing up in scottsdale, arizona, where there are more than 200 courses within a 50 mile radius of my house, golf was literally everywhere. i couldn’t get enough. when i was 14, i decided to take my game to the next level, so i signed up for weekly lessons from a former pga pro named scott watkins. within one year, my handicap dropped from a 25 to a 7. at my best, i was a 2 handicap (when i was 19), and now i play at about 5. my lowest round ever was 70 (-2) at kierland country club in scottsdale, arizona. here’s a video of my swing (as of dec. 2016), along with some snapchats highlights from playing around the world. i keep every scorecard from all 300+ rounds of i’ve played, and even since i’ve been traveling the world full-time (without my clubs), i always jump on any opportunity i get to play a round. below is a map of all 19 countries i’ve played golf in, and i’m hoping to add 10 more countries in 2017. here are reviews of some of my favorite rounds and courses that i’ve played at. click a link to read! if you want me to play & review your golf course, please contact me here. – long bien golf course – hanoi vietnam – sahara golf resort – kuwait city – lusignan country club – georgetown, guyana – grenada golf & country club – grenada – costão golf club – florianópolis, brazil – gainey ranch golf – scottsdale, arizona – legend hill golf club – hanoi, vietnam golf in the press i am sponsored by vietnam golf magazine to play and review the top 10 golf courses in vietnam in 2017. i also have a column in their global magazine, and we’re working on having a film crew follow me on the golf course for a segment on vietnam tv. i was interviewed on golf & entrepreneur’s podcast about playing golf around the world and running an online business i’ve been interviewed twice on the golf getaways podcast, talking about my favorite golf experiences around the world. you can listen one of the episodes below: please don’t hesitate to contact me if you’d like to review your course, or collaborate on anything related to golf! recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.