skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me category: golf the golf trip of lifetime to ireland & scotland before i write this post, i’d like to extend a huge thank you to all my sponsors and partners for this trip. this includes north & west coast links, tourism ireland, scot golf travel & luggage forward. i just finished the best golfing road trip of my life across ireland and scotland with my dad! […] read more… posted in blogging, golf, travel7 comments review: legend hill golf resort in hanoi, vietnam in march, 2017, i had the wonderful opportunity to play brg legend hill golf resort which is located about 20km north of hanoi (close to the noi bai airport). it’s one of the most beautiful courses i’ve ever played in my life. just look at the greenery in this photo! recently opening in 2015, legend hill […] read more… posted in golf1 comment review: sky lake golf course in hanoi, vietnam general thoughts in january 2017, i played sky lake golf course near hanoi — voted the #1 most challenging course in vietnam. my friends at vietnam golf magazine invited me out to play and it was a very enjoyable day and round! getting to the property was a trek (to say the least), about an hour drive southwest […] read more… posted in golf5 comments review: sacom golf resort in dalat, vietnam general thoughts in january 2017, i was invited by my friends at vietnam golf magazine to play at the stunning sacom tuyen lam golf resort just outside of dalat, vietnam. i am left speechless by how incredible this place was. it was almost like a dream come true. we stayed at the adjacent sacom resort for 2 […] read more… posted in golf1 comment sahara golf resort in kuwait city: review i just finished playing a round at kuwait’s finest course called sahara golf resort, and it was fantastic! totally blew away my expectations of a golf course in kuwait. to be honest with you, i didn’t even know golf existed in kuwait until i was already there and my kuwaiti friends mentioned it to me. so, […] read more… posted in golfleave a comment gainey ranch golf club in scottsdale, az located in my hometown of scottsdale, arizona, gainey ranch is one of my favorite tracks in the valley. i had the opportunity to play a few rounds there in nov/dec of 2016, and the course was is fantastic condition. the 27-hole gainey ranch golf club is a private course, so you must know someone who is a member to […] read more… posted in golf1 comment grenada golf & country club during my 4 week trip around the south caribbean, i spent 2 days in grenada and didn’t have too many plans… other than to play a round of golf! so as i normally do whenever i enter a new country, i google “golf courses in grenada” to see what comes up. it turned out that there was only […] read more… posted in golf2 comments costão country club in florianópolis, brazil i spent 3 weeks in brazil during my 3-month trip around south america in 2016, and i knew my trip wouldn’t be complete until i played a round of golf! i actually went to brazil to attend the summer olympics games in rio, where i witnessed golf being played for the first time in 100+ years at […] read more… posted in golfleave a comment long bien golf course in hanoi on my 25th birthday, i had the wonderful opportunity of playing one of asia’s top golf courses, long bien golf course, in hanoi, vietnam. the 27-hole championship course is just a 10 minute drive from vietnam’s capital city, and it was one of the most stunning and pristine golf courses i’ve ever played. for a […] read more… posted in golf1 comment lusignan golf course in guyana on my recent trip to guyana, i had the pleasure of playing the only golf course in the country — lusignan golf club. it’s located about 20 minutes east of georgetown (the capital city) in the small village of lusignan. i only had 2 days to spend in guyana, and when i found out about […] read more… posted in golf13 comments categories blog in korea blogging budgeting golf popular snapchat stories social stories tips travel videos recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.