engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here instacart workers will strike over lack of covid-19 protections latest in gear ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 19m ago view google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks 1h ago view the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here 1h ago view this week's best deals: sony headphones, surface pro 7 and more 2h ago view image credit: google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks ad credits and small business support are also part of the strategy. jon fingas, @jonfingas 1h ago comments share tweet share sponsored links sopa images via getty images google's support for the fight against covid-19 includes more than advisories and a search hub. the internet firm is making a $800 million-plus investment in multiple areas to aid treatment, support businesses and keep the public informed. this includes direct financial backing and know-ow, including partnering with supplier magid glove & safety to produce 2-3 million face masks for the cdc foundation in the "coming weeks." it'll also assist the government, manufacturers and distributors in producing ventilators. the business assistance includes a $200 million fund for financial institutions and non-governmental organizations to help small businesses get funds. all small businesses with active accounts over the past year will have access to a pool of $340 million in google ads credits. google's remaining funds include $250 million in ad grants for the who and government agencies to provide vital information (a leap from $25 million in february) and $20 million google cloud credits for academics using remote computing power to study possible treatments and track data. on top of this, google is raising its employees' annual donation matching limit from $7,500 to $10,000. google isn't alone among tech companies in contributing extensive resources to dealing with the pandemic. however, this is clearly a large contribution -- and one that might be necessary as infection rates surge in the us and prompt widespread store closures. in this article: ads, advertising, business, coronavirus, covid-19, face mask, gear, google, google ads, google cloud, health, internet, medicine, small business, web all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr