skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer the wonder of tech making personal technology user-friendly for you! home about archives social media contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! you are here: home / internet / websites / google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources carolyn nicander mohr / march 23, 2020 google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources google has launched several different tools related to the global coronavirus pandemic to help people find out more accurate information about the disease, its spread, prevention, government lockdowns and more. coronavirus, also known as covid-19, has dominated not only the news and our conversations but also searches on google. so google has introduced a new website, a new coronavirus search results page, and a coronavirus search trends page on google trends. each of these can provide helpful information as the world struggles to battle this pandemic. google coronavirus/covid-19 website on saturday, google announced the launch of its covid-19 information & resources page with information about coronavirus. the home page of google’s new site has links to covid-19 websites for the world health organization websites and different countries. you can also get other information including safety and prevention tips, instructional videos, and more. discover resources on topics such as working from home, online learning, and ways to cope with stress. this page also gives information about google’s pledge of $50 million to the global covid-19 response and directs you to how you can donate to the u.n. foundation’s covid-19 solidarity response fund. other sections of the new website include: health information safety & prevention tips data & insights resources to help support relief efforts latest from google’s blog google’s coronavirus/covid-19 website launched on saturday in the u.s. and will be expanding to other countries within the next few days. => also see 12 ways tech can help with social distancing google coronavirus/covid-19 search results google is organizing search results for “coronavirus” and”covid-19″ to help you more easily find information on the pandemic. see news stories, search trends, commonly asked questions, government resources, information about the disease, and more. get links to information about the disease, and see the latest tweets from health authorities. the search results page also shows statistics of the spread of the virus around the world in list and maps views and can direct you to the closest hospital. the updated search results format will be rolled out first in english in the u.s. and later in other languages and countries. google trends you can also find helpful information about coronavirus searches on google trends. check out the new coronavirus search trends section on google trends to see how searches related to the virus have changed over time. view the most popular search terms globally, by country, or locally. see how interested each region is in certain search terms. this google trends map shows the search interest in “coronavirus” around the world in the past day: this map from google trends shows the search interest in “coronavirus” in different metro regions in the united states for the past day: this map from google trends shows the search interest for “coronavirus” by state for the past day: google trends also shows popular searches related to the prevention of coronavirus spread: and you can check out the most searched terms related to lockdowns for the past week: what google doesn’t have contrary to what was previously announced in a press conference by the u.s. government, google does not have a website with a symptom checker that directs you to the closest u.s. testing site if you are having symptoms of coronavirus. verily, a sister company of google, launched project baseline last week that helps people learn whether they are eligible for coronavirus testing. project baseline collects user’s data to help study the spread of the virus and you must create an account to access the website’s features. verily’s project baseline is currently available only in california in: santa clara county san mateo county other coronavirus/covid-19 resources other sources for coronavirus/cpvod-19 data include: microsoft’s bing covid-19 website with updated statistics, worldwide and local mapping, and links to news stories johns hopkins university & medicine coronavirus resource center with updated statistics, worldwide and local maps, charts and graphs john burn-murdoch twitter account with daily graphs showing updates of the coronavirus trajectory. burn-murdoch is a statistician and reporter for the financial times. your thoughts do you find google’s resources helpful in learning more information about coronavirus? do you find search term data on google trends informative? what other coronavirus/covid-19 resources would you suggest wonder of tech readers check out? share your thoughts in the comments section below! tweet share3 share pin2 email 5 shares related filed under: websites tagged with: google subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: reader interactions comments suchot says march 23, 2020 at 11:48 am i haven’t seen this yet. i think it would be very helpful and also something i would have to ration myself with checking/not reading it in the evenings to help with any covid19 anxiety. reply carolyn nicander mohr says march 23, 2020 at 12:52 pm hi suchot, good point. if we have too much time on our hands, we may check these sites excessively. best to limit yourself so you don’t get overwhelmed by the data. carolyn nicander mohr recently published this awesome post..12 ways tech can help with social distancing reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website twitter (@username) notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. you must enable javascript to be able to comment this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar carolyn nicander mohr subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: search the wonder of tech! search this website recent posts google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources 12 ways tech can help with social distancing how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center 3 ways to avoid social distance in the age of technology redbox launches free live tv, no subscription needed recent comments carolyn nicander mohr on google maps celebrates 15 years with new features! carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing popular posts chirp – a new place to get deals on audiobooks how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center google maps adds enhanced guidance for people with impaired vision (and everyone else) survey shows how wearables can improve lives [infographic] the many reasons why you may want apple carplay in your next (or current) car subscribe to the wonder of tech rss feed wonder of tech rss feed like the wonder of tech on facebook like the wonder of tech on facebook! triberr atomic tribe subscribe to the wonder of tech on feedly! subscribe on the kindle! the wonder of tech kindle subscription by subscribing to the wonder of tech on the kindle, you can have new articles automatically downloaded as soon as they're published! privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy categories categories select category android apps breaking news cameras cars cell phones cell phones cloud computers ebooks education ereaders featured fitness gaming devices internet ipad ipad iphone iphone mac movies music personal technology personal technology photography robots shopping social media tablets television triberr uncategorized wearables websites windows subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: footer subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: let’s connect! facebook flickr google+ linkedin pinterest rss twitter youtube home about archives social media policies privacy policy comment policy guest post policy review policy thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! tags 3d amazon android apple apps at&t cloud education email facebook fitness fun videos gaming gifts google gps handy tips hulu+ internet radio ipad iphone itunes kindle movies music netflix nintendo nook parenting photography pinterest poll roku sd cards security shopping slingbox tablets texts travel twitter verizon virgin mobile wearables youtube copyright © 2020 · digital pro on genesis framework · wordpress · log in home about archives social media policies thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here!