skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download google fonts typography by fonts plugin details reviews installation support development description the google fonts library currently contains 877 unique fonts. this plugin allows you to easily use any of them on your wordpress website. you’re not stuck with one font for the entire website, you can easily choose one font for headings and another for your content. it’s hard to know which font will look good on your website, that’s why we’ve included a live preview feature. that means you can test each font and see a live preview of how it will look with your content instantly. once you’ve found a combination you love, you can press save and make the changes publicly visible. the full google fonts library can be found here – google fonts plugin features live customizer preview: choose and preview fonts in real time using the wordpress customizer. over 900+ google fonts to choose from. works with any wordpress theme. no coding required. easy one-click updates. translation ready. ssl and https compatible. efficient font loading using a single request. seo-friendly (search engine optimization). tested with php7 selective font loading preconnect resource hints host google fonts locally font size, weight, color and line height typography settings note: some features are premium. which means you need to upgrade to unlock those features. you can upgrade here: google fonts pro plugin compatibility the google fonts for wordpress plugin will work with all wordpress themes and has been specifically tested with the following: all olympusthemes all studiopress and genesis themes twentyfifteen twentysixteen twentyseventeen themegrill themeisle further reading for more info on google fonts for wordpress, check out the following: documentation font combinations how to use google fonts in wordpress google fonts in beaver builder google fonts in elementor google fonts in wpbakery bugs if you find an issue with google fonts typography, let us know here! google fonts gutenberg block add some flair to your content with our new gutenberg block. all 900+ fonts available in the editor font size, variant and line-height settings text-align: left, right or center. contributions anyone is welcome to contribute to the google fonts typography plugin. there are various ways you can contribute: raise an issue translate the google fonts typography plugin into different languages provide feedback and suggestions on enhancements screenshots instant live preview - google fonts for wordpress customizer settings search - google fonts for wordpress customizer settings font weight and style typography settings blocks this plugin provides 1 block. olympus-google-fonts/google-fonts google fonts installation upload google fonts typography, activate it, and you’re done! navigate to wp-admin -> appearance -> customize and you will see a new tab named ‘google fonts’ faq will my theme work with google fonts for wordpress? we are 99.99% certain it will, if it doesn’t then please create a support ticket. reviews works well huddle march 25, 2020 was able to set up the fonts without issue. easy to use gabetaviano march 25, 2020 i have really liked this plugin so far. thanks! goooooooood withthemind march 25, 2020 아주 잘 쓰고 있습니다! 고맙습니다. ^ ^ nice jcivico23 march 25, 2020 nice nice ! hwannkiat march 25, 2020 it work seamlessly! thank you ! goog plugin ricardo1960 march 25, 2020 nice plugin read all 460 reviews contributors & developers “google fonts typography” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors dannycooper googlefonts “google fonts typography” has been translated into 14 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “google fonts typography” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog see changelog.txt for the complete google fonts typography changelog. meta version: 1.9.99 last updated: 2 weeks ago active installations: 100,000+ wordpress version: 4.0 or higher tested up to: 5.4 languages: see all 15 close albanian, chinese (china), chinese (taiwan), english (uk), english (us), japanese, korean, kurdish (sorani), persian, russian, sinhala, spanish (spain), spanish (venezuela), swedish, and turkish. translate into your language tags: elementorfontsgooglegoogle fontstypography advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 451 4 stars 7 3 stars 1 2 stars 0 1 star 1 contributors dannycooper googlefonts support issues resolved in last two months: 5 out of 5 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.