google editors docs sheets slides forms for business help go to google sheets create amazing kim spreadsheets create spreadsheets personal with google sheets, you can create, edit, and collaborate wherever you are. for free. go to google sheets download google sheets business the google sheets you love with added security and control for teams. learn more sign up please enter a valid email address thanks for signing up. you can unsubscribe at any time at the bottom of any email you receive from google docs. lindsay jono salit make it count google sheets makes your data pop with colorful charts and graphs. built-in formulas, pivot tables and conditional formatting options save time and simplify common spreadsheet tasks. all for free. get a head start with templates choose from a wide variety of budgets, schedules, and other pre-made spreadsheets — all designed to make your work that much better, and your life that much easier. view all templates get to your spreadsheets anywhere, anytime access, create, and edit your spreadsheets wherever you go — from your phone, tablet, or computer — even when there’s no connection download the app download the android app get sheets for iphone and ipad download google sheets share invite people: enter names, email... jake sage 4/1/2014 when do you think you can have the edits done? tue, 1:06 pm maybe by two? tue, 1:06 pm do more together with google sheets, everyone can work together in the same spreadsheet at the same time. share with anyone click share and let anyone—friends, classmates, coworkers, family—view, comment on or edit your spreadsheet. edit in real-time when someone is editing your spreadsheet, you can see their cursor as they make changes or highlight text. chat & comment chat with others directly inside any spreadsheet or add a comment with “+” their email address and they'll get a notification. never hit “save” again all your changes are automatically saved as you type. you can even use revision history to see old versions of the same spreadsheet, sorted by date and who made the change. works with excel open, edit, and save microsoft excel files with the chrome extension or app. convert excel files to google sheets and vice versa. don't worry about file formats again. insights, instantly use the explore panel to get an overview of your data, from informative summaries to a selection of pre-populated charts to choose from. do more with add-ons take your sheets experience even further with add-ons. try the yet another mail merge add-on to create and send personalized emails. see what else you can add get started now sheets is ready to go when you are. simply create a spreadsheet through your browser or download the app for your mobile device. get google sheets go to sheets get sheets for android get sheets for iphone and ipad download google sheets stay in the know never miss out on the latest updates and handy tips for getting the most out of google docs. sign up please enter a valid email address thanks for signing up. you can unsubscribe at any time at the bottom of any email you receive from google docs. terms of use privacy policy follow: about google docs google docs google sheets google slides google forms downloads & more docs for android sheets for android slides for android docs for iphone & ipad sheets for iphone & ipad slides for iphone & ipad office editing for docs, sheets, and slides add-ons for docs add-ons for sheets add-ons for forms support docs help center google docs forum related solutions google drive google cloud platform g suite google apps for education google apps for government google business solutions change language: afrikaans azərbaycanca bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu català čeština dansk deutsch eesti english english (united kingdom) español español (latinoamérica) euskara filipino français français (canada) galego hrvatski isizulu íslenska italiano kiswahili latviešu lietuvių magyar nederlands norsk polski português (brasil) português (portugal) română slovenčina slovenščina suomi svenska tiếng việt türkçe ελληνικά български монгол русский српски українська ქართული հայերեն ‫עברית‬ ‫اردو‬ ‫العربية‬ ‫فارسی‬ አማርኛ नेपाली मराठी हिन्दी বাংলা ગુજરાતી தமிழ் తెలుగు ಕನ್ನಡ മലയാളം සිංහල ไทย ລາວ ខ្មែរ 한국어 中文 (香港) 中文（简体中文） 中文（繁體中文） 日本語 google privacy terms