skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes eater homepage follow eater online: follow eater on twitter follow eater on facebook follow eater on youtube follow eater on instagram subscribe log in or sign up log in sign up site search search search eater main menu cities video features travel podcasts pop culture reviews shopping tech books more cities atlanta austin boston carolinas chicago dallas denver detroit houston las vegas london los angeles miami montreal nashville new orleans new york philadelphia phoenix portland, or san diego san francisco seattle twin cities washington dc video features travel podcasts pop culture reviews shopping tech books ✕ filed under: coronavirus the internet so everyone’s googling ‘bread’ now coronavirus isolating has led to a bread-baking boom by meghan mccarron mar 25, 2020, 4:55pm edt share this story share this on facebook share this on twitter share all sharing options share all sharing options for: so everyone’s googling ‘bread’ now pocket flipboard email jae hassold/shutterstock bread — maybe you’ve heard of it? the combination of water, flour, yeast, and salt, staple of many western diets for thousands of years? social media flex of tech bros and tech bros only? but maybe you haven’t. in the alarming word slurry of google trends during a pandemic (“vaccine” and “unemployment” are doing great!), the number of people searching “bread” hit an all-time high this week. an ever-increasing number of americans are staying at home to help slow the spread of covid-19 through their communities, and they need something to do. anyone without a sewing machine for making homemade masks to shore up our government’s shamefully low stockpile appears to be baking bread. it makes sense: using the no-knead and sourdough recipes that have become popular over the past decade, baking bread at home works best when you’re there for hours on end, with time to tend to dough between its long rests and rises. it’s not an accident that bread baking caught on with work-from-home professions like writing and tech. few other people voluntarily stayed in their houses that often for that long. no longer. another thing that may be spurring the bread boom is that for the first time in many americans’ living memories, we’ve seen the bread run out. cleared-out supermarket shelves were local phenomena during disasters, but a national run on staples, including bread, is a new and scary spectacle, even if food shortages are a sign of panic-buying rather than actual breakdown. unlike eggs or milk or, um, toilet paper, if the bread runs out, you can just make your own. in the locust plague logic of the coronavirus anxiety shoppers, now the flour and yeast are running out. many grocery stores are temporarily out of stock, and king arthur flour has instituted a two-bag maximum for all online orders, and cancelled rush shipping. bill tine, king arthur’s vp of marketing, says the two-item limits were instituted today to ease operations; the company has plenty of supply, but heavy eight-bag orders were slowing down shipping. tine says it’s clear customers are not hoarding the flour, because the traffic on the company’s recipes is hitting record highs. on sunday, march 22, traffic was higher than the day before thanksgiving, and it site has been breaking records ever since. “we will probably hit a million people a day at some point,” tine says. usually king arthur’s most popular recipe is easy cheesecake; right now, the top recipes are all for savory breads, with the top spot going to sourdough starter. the pandemic’s food impact began with everyone hoarding beans, but it’s unclear if all the proud new bean owners have taken the jump of cooking up a pot of them yet. the google trends on “bean” are ticking upwards, but not with bread’s exponential oomph. serious cooks already found solace in cooking beans before the pandemic, but the emotional appeal of bread has a much larger reach. bread for many in america is civilization, and when civilization seems to be breaking down, it’s reassuring to mix, knead, proof, shape, and bake a little miniature relic of it at home — every day, until the hazy, unknown point when this is over. sign up for the newsletter eater.com the freshest news from the food world every day email (required) by signing up, you agree to our privacy notice and european users agree to the data transfer policy. subscribe more from eater if the stimulus package fails independent restaurants, it fails america florence pugh’s home-cooking instagram videos are here to save you from boredom instacart workers plan nationwide strike to demand covid-19 protections should i even be making wine at all right now? everything a recipe developer uses to organize her pantry, fridge, and freezer fuck it, let them eat cake most read trump says restaurants will make a comeback, just maybe with new owners the president’s response to projections that 11 percent of restaurants could go out of business in the next month due to covid-19 was less than reassuring to current restaurant owners yelp, gofundme make covid-19 fundraisers for restaurants without their permission blindsiding businesses that were already in a tough position sign up for the newsletter eater.com the freshest news from the food world every day email (required) by signing up, you agree to our privacy notice and european users agree to the data transfer policy. subscribe the latest florence pugh’s home-cooking instagram videos are here to save you from boredom by nadia chaudhury instacart workers plan nationwide strike to demand covid-19 protections by jenny g. zhang should i even be making wine at all right now? by brianne day everything a recipe developer uses to organize her pantry, fridge, and freezer by rebecca firkser fuck it, let them eat cake by lesley suter now is a time of boom and bust for the liquor industry by caleb pershan chorus terms of use privacy notice cookie policy do not sell my info communications preferences licensing faq accessibility platform status contact send us a tip community guidelines masthead ethics statement newsletters how to pitch vox media vox media vox media logo. advertise with us jobs @ vox media © 2020 vox media, llc. all rights reserved share this story twitter facebook