australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 15:49 edt gop candidate sends fundraising email, while decrying fundraising during coronavirus crisis new hampshire republican donald bolduc went on a radio show and said he wouldn't ask people for money. but right beforehand, he sent out an email doing just that. by amanda terkel, huffpost us andrew harnik/associated press retired brig. gen. donald bolduc is running for the gop nomination to go up against sen. jeanne shaheen (d-n.h.). donald bolduc, a gop senate candidate in new hampshire, has promised not to fundraise off the coronavirus crisis. “one thing i refuse to do during this crisis is ask anybody for money. i will not do that. i don’t care what your position is, i will not ask you for money,” bolduc said during a radio interview on tuesday. “unfortunately the political system is run by money, but anybody with a conscience, anybody who knows people are struggling now ― you can’t ask people for money. i refuse to ask people for money,” he added. that same day, however, bolduc sent out a fundraising email doing just that. in an email to supporters shortly before he went on “the jim lawrence show,” bolduc criticized sen. jeanne shaheen (d-n.h.) and other democrats in the chamber for their position on the coronavirus relief legislation. and included in that email was a link to donate to his campaign, reading, “chip in now and help me send her packing in november.” huffpost bolduc sent out a fundraising email, blasting senate democrats for their work on the coronavirus legislation. bolduc campaign spokesman josh mcelveen said his comments were focused on “direct dial” and a fundraising email was not inconsistent with what he said. “as a campaign, we have a responsibility to continue with resource generation to ensure we successfully bring experienced leaders focused on true representation and public service to dc,” mcelveen said. “the suggestion that digital fundraising violates the spirit of the general’s comments is a misinterpretation of his message.” bolduc is a retired u.s. army brigadier general and the former commander of american special operations forces in africa. he’s running for the gop nomination to take on shaheen and has said that he has the backing of the national republican senatorial committee, although the group has not endorsed a candidate. bolduc has repeatedly claimed that china likely created the coronavirus in a lab, which is a theory that has been widely rejected by scientists and pushed by pro-kremlin voices. a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic trump rejects new york’s desperate plea for ventilators what you need to know about at-home coronavirus test kits how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off avoiding going to the store? here’s how to order groceries online. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction amanda terkel washington bureau chief, huffpost more: 2020 election coronavirus covid-19 new hampshire matt bolduc trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.