editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. news latest 37 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 38 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 41 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime gop rep. who came under fire over ‘beer virus’ joke apologizes rep. don young (r-ak) arrives to hold a news conference with rep. tulsi gabbard (d-hi) outside of the capitol to discuss the introduction of two bipartisan marijuana bills on march 7, 2019. (photo by bill clark/cq roll call) by cristina cabrera | march 27, 2020 11:22 a.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. rep. don young (r-ak) apologized on thursday for encouraging alaskans to “go forth with our everyday activities” despite the covid-19 pandemic, and mocking the coronavirus as “a beer virus.” young posted a video in which he acknowledged that the impact of the disease is “very real.” “weeks ago, i did not fully grasp the severity of this crisis,” he said. “but clearly we are in the midst of an urgent public health emergency.” the gop lawmaker, who had made the comments during a meeting with senior citizens, said in his apology video that the virus “is especially threatening our senior citizens, which i am one, and those with underlying conditions.” young urged people to follow the centers for disease control and prevention’s (cdc) guidelines on social distancing. “listen to the cdc and stay home,” he said. during the meeting two weeks ago, young had accused the media of exaggerating the outbreak. on thursday, he softened his criticism somewhat. “these have also been stressful times for our families,” the congressman said. “take breaks from watching, reading, or listening to the news stories, including social media.” watch the video below: cristina cabrera (@crismcabrera) is a newswriter at tpm based in new york. she previously worked for vocativ, usa today and ny1 news. have a tip? send it here! includes: covid-19don young more in news 37 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 38 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 41 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy