/ mark frauenfelder / 11:18 am fri mar 27, 2020 gorilla rack shelving units are awesome follow us twitter / facebook / rss 10 years ago we decluttered our garage and carla bought several gorilla rack shelving units from amazon. they are awesome. i've assembled shelving units before, and they required either nuts and bolts or little brackets, but the gorilla rack units have parts that fit together without extra hardware. i built the first shelving unit in about 30 minutes. the second one took me 15 minutes, and the third one was done in 10 minutes. the pieces fit together without any fussing and the unit is free of sharp edges. it's very sturdy, too. share / tweet / 4 comments reviews / useful stuff get the boing boing newsletter exhaustive reviews of ceiling fans i’m considering buying the oxygen solis [amazon], a tactical edc ceiling fan, and chanced across the youtube channel vintage fans and more looking for opinions. it’s a large collection of surprisingly informative reviews of ceiling fans, visits to fan manufacturers and ceiling fan trade shows, etc., and the creator is up-front about his connections to […] read the rest a good solar powered led illuminated street address sign i bought this solar powered led illuminated street address sign earlier this month and am really happy with it. the light is is bright and makes it easy for people to find our house. it comes with several sheets of adhesive numbers that you stick onto a white plastic panel. it also comes with mounting […] read the rest extend your wi-fi with powerline networking i’ve tried many ways to extend wi-fi through my house. powerline networking, which creates networks through electrical wiring, works the best for me. tp-link has this kit with 2 units. one unit plugs into your wall outlet and router. the other unit can be plugged into any wall outlet in your house to provide wi-fi […] read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support