skip to main content a community of independent local bookstores search for books search enter the terms you wish to search for. toggle navigation menu main navigation locate an independent, local bookstore indie bestsellers indie next list reading group indie next list kids indie next list find indies selling ebooks the impact of amazon's growth graceling (paperback) by kristin cashore hmh books for young readers, 9780547258300, 512pp. publication date: september 7, 2009 other editions of this title: hardcover (10/1/2008) prebound (9/7/2009) compact disc (6/1/2009) compact disc (2/24/2015) mp3 cd (2/24/2015) pre-recorded audio player (10/1/2009) prebound (9/7/2009) paperback, french (5/11/2011) hardcover, spanish (3/1/2009) compact disc (6/1/2009) list price: 10.99* * individual store prices may vary. winter 2009 kids' list “in a world where some people are born with extreme and often feared skills -- called graces -- katsa struggles for redemption from her own horrifying grace, that of killing, and teams up with another young fighter to save their land from a corrupt king. action-packed and featuring a strong, feisty girl.” — kristi tiedt, butterfly books, de pere, wi view the list description discover the graceling realm in this unforgettable, award-winning novel from bestselling author kristin cashore a new york times bestseller ala best book for young adults mythopoeic fantasy award for children's literature winner publishers weekly, school library journal,booklist, and bccb best book of the year “rageful, exhilarating, wistful in turns" (the new york times book review) with “a knee weakening romance” (la times). graceling is a thrilling, action-packed fantasy adventure that will resonate deeply with anyone trying to find their way in the world. graceling tells the story of the vulnerable-yet-strong katsa, who is smart and beautiful and lives in the seven kingdoms where selected people are born with a grace, a special talent that can be anything at all. katsa’s grace is killing. as the king’s niece, she is forced to use her extreme skills as his brutal enforcer. until the day she meets prince po, who is graced with combat skills, and katsa’s life begins to change. she never expects to become po’s friend. she never expects to learn a new truth about her own grace—or about a terrible secret that lies hidden far away . . . a secret that could destroy all seven kingdoms with words alone. awards: winner of the mythopoeic fantasy award for children's literature, winner of the siba book award/ya, indies choice book award honor book, ala best book for young adults, 2008 publishers weekly best book of the year, 2008 school library journal best book of the year, amazon.com’s best books of 2008, 2008 booklist editors’ choice, booklist’s 2008 top ten first novels for youth, 2009 amelia bloomer list, bccb 2009 blue ribbon list and don’t miss the sequel fire and companion bitterblue, both award-winning, new york times bestsellers, and full of kristin cashore’s elegant, evocative prose and unforgettable characters. about the author kristin cashore grew up in the northeast pennsylvania countryside as the second of four daughters. she received a bachelor's degree from williams college and a master's from the center for the study of children's literature at simmons college, and she has worked as a dog runner, a packer in a candy factory, an editorial assistant, a legal assistant, and a freelance writer. she has lived in many places (including sydney, new york city, boston, london, austin, and jacksonville, florida), and she currently lives in the boston area. graceling, her first book, was an ala best book for young adults. buy at local store enter your zip code below to purchase from an indie close to you. search online and in-store stock may differ. please call before going to store. or buy here amazon's true cost: lost jobs, storefronts, & revenue locate stores:by name|by zip why shop indie indie next list indie bestsellers indies first link to indiebound affiliate program sign in|create account get help|security & privacy|terms of use copyright © 2020 american booksellers association