welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog 12 courses learners love published on: feb 14, 2017 by sara reich 8465 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post celebrate your love for learning today, we celebrate love of all types, including the love of learning. hearing from our learners inspires us everyday, especially when they share their favorite courses. check out these 12 courses learners love. 1. the science of happiness – ucberkeleyx (self-paced) learner rating: 4.5/5 2. world of wine: from grape to glass – adelaidex (self-paced) learner rating:... read more about 12 courses learners love what online courses should i take to prepare for college? published on: jan 16, 2017 by alice randall 10193 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post refine your writing and language skills get ahead in computer science refresh your math knowledge learn how to effectively communicate train your brain to think critically if you’re headed to college later this year, it’s likely that you’ve already completed your application forms, sat entrance exams and will (hopefully!) accept an offer to attend a school. you might think you’ve done all you can to... read more about what online courses should i take to prepare for college? improve your writing skills with 6 free online courses published on: nov 08, 2016 by david mcpherson 227566 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post words are powerful. they inspire greatness and effect change. they start movements and empower leaders. they have the power to get you hired, get you promoted and, if used incorrectly, get you fired. combine the power of words with the ease and speed of email and social distribution in the digital age and one can quickly see that it has never been more important to... read more about improve your writing skills with 6 free online courses find your inner writer: new writing and composition courses published on: may 05, 2016 by david mcpherson 6812 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post do you have a story inside you just waiting to come out? do you have expertise in a subject that needs to be exposed to the world via a blog or a how-to book? is your imagination on par with j. k. rowling but you lack the tools to get your ideas onto paper? in addition to the knowledge, creativity and inspiration for your writing,... read more about find your inner writer: new writing and composition courses english courses to improve your life published on: feb 17, 2016 by monil shah 20173 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post did you know that over 840 million people speak english? from business to school to relationships, better writing and communications skills can benefit all areas of your life. improved speaking and writing skills can help you personally and professionally: advance your career: global organizations are choosing english as their common language even though chinese is the highest spoken. in fact, the harvard business review declared english as the global... read more about english courses to improve your life ap® english language and composition: exam preparation published on: sep 23, 2015 by david mcpherson 6882 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post the ap® english language and composition exam has two parts: multiple choice and free response. the multiple choice section lasts one hour and tests the ability to read, comprehend, analyze and interpret various types of rhetoric. the 2 hour and 15 minute free response portion of the exam is especially challenging because students are required to compose an argument and cite various sources from supplied... read more about ap® english language and composition: exam preparation back to school: start fall the “write” way! published on: jul 29, 2015 by rebecca.sacks 6418 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this summer, learners from across the globe are challenging themselves on edx, learning new skills and exploring new subjects through summer learning @ edx. seasons may change, but there is still always more to learn! over the coming weeks, we will be transitioning from summer learning to our back to school blog series. from the college admissions process to in-demand career skills, this series will... read more about back to school: start fall the “write” way! massive open online course helps english language learners improve writing skills published on: jan 10, 2014 by candace hazlett 7638 views no comments posted in: uncategorized like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post students take college writing 2x: principles of written english massive open online course in madagascar international students connect the united states with the world. we want international students to be successful in their fields of study and to gain a rich understanding of america. learning the intricacies of written english increases students’ chances of success in science, business, technology and much of higher education —... read more about massive open online course helps english language learners improve writing skills search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close