skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about graphic design best photo editing software for photographers 2020 – novice to experts by jamie whether you’re a budding artist looking to make your photos pop, a blogger who wants to create awesome featured images and pinterest pins, or a seasoned professional interested in streamlining your workflow, photo-editing software is a must-have. high-performance software is an important tool to have in your arsenal. it can help you make the most … read morebest photo editing software for photographers 2020 – novice to experts categories photography, graphic design how to create an animated gif with photoshop – step by step tutorial by jamie if you’ve spent any time browsing the internet over the past few years, then you’ve undoubtedly come across a gif. these tiny moving images can convey a lot more information than an image, or text. once a mainstay of the old-school web they’ve made a massive resurgence in recent years.gifs provide you with a great … read morehow to create an animated gif with photoshop – step by step tutorial categories graphic design 12 of the best free pdf editors – 2020 guide by jamie pdfs is one of the most popular document types used online today. it’s the preferred document used in business, from online brochures to invoices. pdf editors are fast becoming the must have tool. if you work in an office or run a business, you might even find yourself dealing with pdfs multiple times a day! … read more12 of the best free pdf editors – 2020 guide categories graphic design a collection of the best infographics by jamie we may think that in today’s world of easy access to knowledge that something as visual and data-heavy as the infographic may only be a few decades old. however, the infographic has been around for centuries, even if it wasn’t initially recognized as such. first, we’ll discuss what exactly an infographic is and what purpose … read morea collection of the best infographics categories graphic design how to resize images and make images larger without losing quality by jamie sometimes you take the perfect photo, but it’s just too small to show all of the detail of the subject you were attempting to capture. there are a number of situations when you need to resize a photo. more than likely, you haven’t been all that impressed with the blurry results you achieve. when you … read morehow to resize images and make images larger without losing quality categories graphic design best free logo makers & generators – 2020 guide to creating your own logo by jamie branding is everything. when you’re starting a blog, a website or a new business, one of the most important things to do is to create a visual image of your brand so that your potential customers can remember you the next time they need your particular goods or services. when it comes to this image, … read morebest free logo makers & generators – 2020 guide to creating your own logo categories graphic design best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub