home articles podcast tabletop graphic design about menu home articles podcast tabletop graphic design about yomi fighting card game 1 - 4 players 20 characters built for competitive play get the tabletop version play yomi on steam play yomi on ios the box for the ex powerup expansion is designed to hold all 20 yomi decks. it comes with a sleeve around it displaying various product information which the player removes. this allows the box to be minimal, beautiful, and uncluttered. each of the above boxes comes with 4 decks (and a board, knockdown token, and rulebook). yomi has such good illustrations that i wanted to focus on those as much as possible while removing as much else as i could. very much inspired from apple's packaging philosophy. the front of the tuckbox for each character (see below) shows that character's cardback design, which is an abstract representation of something about that character's style or personality. these abstract designs also have to be rotationally symmetric because of how yomi's gameplay works. these boards give a convenient way to track life totals without pencil and paper. they also depict fights from a theoretical fantasy strike fighting game to get you in the right mood for yomi's theme. puzzle strike deckbuilding game with chips 2-4 players 20 characters built for competitive play get the tabletop version play on steam play on ios puzzle strike's box stands out quite a bit from other board games. bright pink is not a common choice of colors, but it really fits puzzle strike's theme of being an homage to capcom's puzzle fighter. the box back illustrates conceptually what the game is about, rather than getting too literal. puzzle strike's chips went through dozens of graphic design iterations. while the +arrow and +draw icons are similar to some fan-made chips for the game dominion, the gem chips, wounds, combine, crash gem, and double crash gems are all inspired from video games like puzzle fighter. each one of those had its own challenges (especially the 4-gem chip which has to look similar yet more powerful than the other denominations), but the common theme is that they all need to be iconic enough to be recognizable from a distance across the table. the character chips took particularly many versions before arriving at the subtle gradients and slight glassy effect. the first 10 characters each have an associated color so their character chips are easily distinguishable visually, but when it came time to add another 10 characters, i went with a two-tone graphic design. this worked well because it not only distinguishes all the characters from each other, but also the base characters from the expansion ones. puzzle strike didn't originally have player boards, but players requested them again and again so the 3rd edition game and puzzle strike shadows both include them. unlike the mats in yomi, these mats clearly mark several game zones because that's what players needed the most. the white lines to separate the zones are not just functional, but are also aesthetically reminiscent of a video game hud. special thanks to evilgordo for help on those. flash duel sparring card game about distance and spacing 1 - 5 players 20 characters + 1 deathstrike dragon super character many gameplay modes get the tabletop version play the online version flash duel simulates the fantasy strike characters practicing or sparring, while yomi simulates the real fight. i went with a wood theme for flash duel to draw from the connotation that wooden swords and shields are for practicing. the box is as minimal as possible with the sides being just art. the eight huge cards for deathstrike dragon are the most visually striking part of flash duel. the dragon is so powerful that up to four other players can play against him, so i wanted to reflect that with extra large cards and dramatic artwork. the set of 10 achievements in the rulebook is inspired by video games, and all pixel art for the small squares was done by conor "bt" town. i did the rest of the achievement graphic and i wanted it to look slightly like world of warcraft in style. pandánte panda-themed gambling game 2 - 6 players suitable for family fun and for serious real-money gambling high quality clay poker chips available get the tabletop version codex codex graphic design will appear here in the future. logos each logo was quite an undertaking and some had more than 50 versions before reaching a final state. part of that process can be trying to figure out how a logo should express something about the game or brand it represents, though most of the iterations are about the small details of color, shape, shadow, gradients, bevels, and other details that have to be just right. fantasy strike is a martial arts / fantasy world named after a fictional olympic-style fighting tournament. the tournament is run by a stone golem named garus rook, hence the rocky appearance of the fantasy strike logo. each game that takes place in this world also has its own distinctive logo. yomi, puzzle strike, and flash duel's logos are all circular, so that they feel like part of series. codex's logo hints at the six different factions in the game with the six different colored lights. it's also a bigger logo for a bigger game. the "card-time strategy" subtitle lets players know it's modelled after real-time strategy video games such as warcraft 3 and starcraft, but codex itself is not "real-time." pandánte's logo expresses the simple and minimal elegance that runs throughout its graphic design. prev / next back to graphic design 25 yomi 17 puzzle strike 10 flash duel 19 pandante 0 codex 5 logos my tabletop games | my online games | playing to win | recommended books | about | contact