home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity resources for writers by mary jaksch do you feel anxious about the future? what if you could decrease your anxiety by writing a gratitude journal? in this article, you'll find a simple way to calm down and become more resilient, mentally and physically. when you see bad news piling up, it’s easy to become anxious, especially if it is something like a pandemic which can change our lives. you may notice that you don’t sleep well at night and toss and turn, thinking about what if scenarios. anxiety and sleeplessness cause stress. as you know, chronic stress can weaken your immune system. that’s why it’s important for your mental and physical health to find a way to relax, unwind, and feel more positive. if you love writing, there is a great strategy you can use: to keep a gratitude journal. if you want to boost your mental and physical resilience, this is an easy way to create a positive force in your life,. why gratitude journals work gratitude is known as a ‘natural antidepressant.’ this emotion can even change the way our cells respond. whenever we feel gratitude, our brain releases dopamine and serotonin, two neurotransmitters which make us feel ‘good.’ they make us feel happy from the inside. by practicing gratitude every day, we create neural pathways which can create a permanent positive way of being. harvard university medical health school has this to say about gratitude: gratitude helps people feel more positive emotions, relish good experiences, improve their health, deal with adversity, and build strong relationships. harvard university medical health school keeping a gratitude journal is an easy way to focus on gratitude. it can be a time to recalibrate your emotions and to enter an oasis of peace even during a stressful day. the surprising benefits of a gratitude journal using a gratitude journal has five distinct benefits: 1. writing about gratitude lowers your stress levels. as you reflect on gratitude, your level of cortisol (the stress hormone) decreases. 2. you will sleep better at night. if you make writing in your gratitude journal a regular practice in the evening, you'll sleep better at night. 3. you will gain a new perspective of what you truly appreciate. at times, it's easy to forget what really matters. writing about what you are grateful for will clarify your values. 4. you are free to write anything without being judged. your gratitude journal is your private space where you can write anything you like. it is your me-time. 5. it can lift your mood when you feel blue. writing in your gratitude journal will lift your mood and make you feel happier how to get the most of a gratitude journal here are answers to some questions people have about keeping a gratitude journal what should my gratitude journal look like? the answer: you can create a digital journal or us a paper notebook in which you write by hand. if you have a paper journal, keep it on your nightstand beside your bed so that you remember to write into it. i find that writing by hand is a powerful way of putting my thoughts on to the page. what is the best time for writing in your gratitude journal? the answer: the best time for writing in your gratitude before going to bed. writing in the evening is a way to quiet your mind and to shape your thoughts before going to sleep. what should i write about? the answer: look back at the day and write about five things you are grateful for. maybe you are grateful for a person in your life or about something that happened. you may also be grateful for little things. let your instinct guide you to find what you are grateful for. how long should i write for? the answer: write between five and fifteen minutes, not longer. try starting with just five minutes until you have established a new habit. what to remember about keeping a gratitude journal keeping a gratitude journal can help you boost your mental and physical resilience and strengthen your immune system. if you want your body and mind to ward off ill health, use this tool. think about it as free medicine. please start your gratitude journal today so that you can feel happy, peaceful, and resilient. tweet pin1 share289 290 shares related posts 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 by laura tong is blogging dead or alive in 2019? by mary jaksch top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done by laura tong about the author mary jaksch mary jaksch is best known for her exceptional training for writers at writetodone.com and for her cutting-edge book, youthful aging secrets. in her “spare” time, mary is also the brains behind goodlifezen.com, a zen master, a mother, and a 5th degree black belt. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera market your writing qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >