we use cookies both in our kitchen and on our website here at graze. to see what cookies we serve and set your preferences, go ahead and check out our cookie statement. otherwise, if you agree to our use of cookies, please continue to use our site. ok got it keeping our snacks (and you) safe: our plan of action for making snacks in a covid-19 world skip to main content toggle menu graze home page uk ireland nederland login subscribe shop about help rewards get started get started uk ireland nederland login first box half price (usually £4.49) delicious and wholesome snacks, imagine that looking for tasty, nutritious snacks for busy days? welcome to graze. we're reimagining the way you snack with over 100 graze ideas you can feel good about. get started have a special code? get started continue without a code how it works create your account and tell us what you like. we tailor your box and deliver it for free. give us your verdict to help us make even better snacks. flavours with benefits at graze we believe the healthy choice shouldn't be a compromise on taste! we've found that using the best ingredients nature has to offer makes the best snack, and we've got over 100 delicious, wholesome creations for you to look forward to. always new snacks to try we're on a never-ending hunt for healthier, juicier, crunchier, tastier, fresher, bigger, better! which basically means we're always refreshing, rethinking and reinventing, so you can upgrade the way you snack! tailored to your tastes imagine having taste experts on hand to select snacks for you! with a graze subscription you'll do exactly that, all you have to do is tell us what you like and we'll tailor the flavours of each box to suit you. join thousands of grazers who love their graze box "i absolutely love these graze snack boxes. i look forward to them coming every fortnight. great value for money and lots of different flavours to try." katrina "the most convenient, easiest, nicest snacks i've ever had. delivered to your door without having to go to the shops and every time it is something different!" jo "perfect for snacking. and so many choices. would recommend if you fancy something better for snacking than crisps." david ready to reimagine snacking? get started like us on facebook follow us on twitter follow us on instagram careers how it works health gifts wholesale in stores help terms privacy cookies modern slavery statement students get in touch press grazelabs.com © 2020 nature delivered ltd