car search new car search used car search top 10s top 10 green cars 2020 top 10 best mpg cars top 10 low emission cars top 10 zero ved cars top 10 eco-friendly cars top 10 c-charge exempt top 10 economical cars electric cars battery electric plug-in hybrid zap-map ev charging hydrogen fuel cell fuels & mpg mpg fuel economy petrol & diesel conventional hybrid tools & calculators car tax calculator company car tax calc car comparison tool fuel cost calculator mpg calculator car emissions calculator costs & tax car tax ved company car tax congestion charge ultra low emission zone fuel duty car leasing insurance news & reviews news reviews features events more car emissions ngc rating ngc approved whole life costs car clubs green cars new car search used car search search by make and model select manufacturer abarth alfa romeo alpine aston martin audi bentley bmw citroen cupra dacia ds fiat ford honda hyundai jaguar jeep kia lamborghini land rover levc lexus lotus lti maserati mazda mercedes-benz mg motors uk mini mitsubishi morgan nissan peugeot polestar porsche renault rolls-royce seat skoda smart ssangyong subaru suzuki tesla toyota uniti vauxhall volvo vw select a model all models search by vehicle class select vehicle class... all vehicles quadricycle city car supermini small family large family estate mpv suv executive sports cabrio small vans crossover fuel types petrol diesel hybrid phev electric hydrogen search advertisement green car news all news polar offers support for nhs and emergency services the polar network is providing free ev charging and subscriptions to the emergency services during the covid-19 outbreak. at the same time, it is offering taxi drivers free... 27.03.2020 mg donates 100 zs evs to nhs for six months 26.03.2020 london halts road charging schemes 24.03.2020 green car key information electric cars all you need to know about ev cars and vans including information on all ev models now available in the uk. read our ev buying guide to find out whether a battery electric or plug-in hybrid is right for you. find out more car emissions interested in learning about co2, nox, particulates and more? looking for the latest news on the vw group emissions scandal? then check out our car emissions microsite filled with news, info and tools. find out more car tax 2019-20 everything you need to know about car tax in the uk. find co2 emissions and car tax bands for a specific new or used model, or use the car tax calculator for 'first year', 'standard' and 'premium rate' car tax in 2020. find out more top 10s top 10 green cars 2020 top 10 best mpg cars top 10 zero ved cars top 10 congestion charge exempt top 10 low emission cars green car reviews all reviews ford mustang mach-e passenger ride review 17.02.2020 kia soul ev uk first drive 06.03.2020 23 volvo s90 t8 twin engine r-design review 21.01.2020 36 green car tools car comparison tool tax car tax calculator bik company car tax calculator fuel cost calculator car emissions calculator advertisement green car extras top 10 green cars to watch in 2020 zap-map: electric car charging map ev classifieds: find a used ev about next green car next green car's mission is to help car buyers find, compare and buy a greener, more economical car. the core of the website is a database of all new cars currently available in the uk, which visitors can search and compare cars according to many criteria including co2, mpg, car tax band and otr price. with this and all the latest green car news, next green car is an essential destination for those researching a greener, more economical car purchase. search results are ranked according the unique next green car rating which expresses a vehicle's environmental impact as a score out of 100 ranging from 0 for the greenest vehicles to 100+ for the most polluting, and allows for a fair comparison across technologies and fuel types. the next green car website covers all issues relating to green motoring including guides on both the established and emerging technologies including electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles. next green car ltd is an independent company developing data and digital solutions in the automotive sector. each year the company holds the annual next green car awards to identify the greenest and best new cars of the year. in addition to the main website, next green car has also developed and operates zap-map.com an electric car and charge point site built around a uk-wide charging point map which is dedicated to all aspects of electric vehicles and charging. the unique next green car rating expresses a vehicle's environmental impact as a score ranging from 0 for the greenest cars to 100+ for the most polluting ratings are available for over 70,000 uk models registered since 2001 find out more newsletter signup go car manufacturers alfa romeo audi bmw citroen chevrolet fiat ford honda hyundai kia land rover lexus mazda mini mitsubishi nissan peugeot renault saab seat skoda smart toyota vw car classes city car supermini small family large family estate mpv suv crossover site areas new car search best mpg search electric car search car comparison tool car tax calculator company car tax calculator more searches home about us contact us advertising terms privacy cookies site map mobile © next green car ltd | 2008 - 2020