latest marketplace b2b shop cbd my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out latest marketplace b2b shop cbd listen video news and trends starting a business running a business entrepreneurs growth strategies finance spotlight magazine issues entrepreneur.com entrepreneur store other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map market analysis as the economy falters, will demand for cannabis continue to rise? in california and colorado, sales are at an all-time high. what this means for an industry that was on the ropes. just added cannabusiness the hottest cannabis brands of the week (3/20-3/27) discover the most influential brands in the cannabis industry across all marketing efforts and platforms. pioneer intelligence | 1 min read coronavirus cannabis companies donate masks, gloves, and hand sanitizer to health care workers during coronavirus pandemic from engineering hand sanitizer for hospital workers to donating gloves, gowns, and masks - here's how cannabis companies are lending aid to health workers on the frontlines of the coronavirus covid-19 pandemic. lindsey bartlett | 6 min read coronavirus cannabis and coronavirus: guide to staying in and social distancing how can you avoid transmitting the virus, and what should you do if you become so bored that watching paint dry sounds like top-notch entertainment? hannah meadows | 4 min read coronavirus could the coronavirus outbreak delay marijuana legalization? coronavirus covid-19 already has caused a number of state legislatures to temporarily shut down, including ones on the east coast that were weighing recreational marijuana legalization measures. jeff smith | 7 min read more from latest most popular 1 cannabis companies donate masks, gloves, and hand sanitizer to health care workers during coronavirus pandemic lindsey bartlett | 6 min read 2 700 windows wrap this dispensary - store tour of harborside san leandro lindsey bartlett | 5 min read 3 how to use cbd for pain (and why you should start) miss grass | 4 min read 4 7 ways to manage your business in times of crisis jonathan small | 5 min read 5 cannabis and coronavirus: guide to staying in and social distancing hannah meadows | 4 min read read more news & trends market analysis as the economy falters, will demand for cannabis continue to rise? in california and colorado, sales are at an all-time high. what this means for an industry that was on the ropes. jonathan small | 4 min read cannabusiness the hottest cannabis brands of the week (3/20-3/27) discover the most influential brands in the cannabis industry across all marketing efforts and platforms. pioneer intelligence | 1 min read coronavirus cannabis companies donate masks, gloves, and hand sanitizer to health care workers during coronavirus pandemic from engineering hand sanitizer for hospital workers to donating gloves, gowns, and masks - here's how cannabis companies are lending aid to health workers on the frontlines of the coronavirus covid-19 pandemic. lindsey bartlett | 6 min read starting a business 3 ways to position your cbd brand for market domination these important measures will help ensure your brand will stand above the rest. chidike samuelson | 6 min read should you grow cannabis indoors or outdoors? a in-depth look at the pros and cons of both approaches. andrew myers | 7 min read why oxiclean's anthony sullivan bought a hemp farm before launching a cbd brand to truly succeed, he says, you must be authentic. jason feifer | 7 min read why your cannabis business needs an exit strategy even before you enter the marketplace investors will want to know how they'll get their money out before they hand you a dime. find out which three exit strategies they'll be considering. ross o'brien | 5 min read growth strategies how to guerilla market your cannabis brand on the green entrepreneur podcast, serial entrepreneur matt scherr talks about the clever ways he markets his brands for zero dollars. jonathan small | 1 min read how investors place a value on your cannabis business to try to ensure that they're not going to lose money if they invest in your business, investors will determine a value for it. find out how they do it. ross o'brien | 6 min read the keys to cannabis retail in an internet-driven world with the right strategies in place, retail cannabis has huge opportunities in e-commerce anthony elio | 5 min read survival strategies for cannabis companies on the ropes how to stay standing when everything around you seems to be falling apart. jonathan small | 6 min read cannabis industry amid coronavirus, canadian cannabis stores see 'unprecedented' sales surge cannabis stores in ontario and alberta reported "unprecedented demand" as the country hunkers down to fight a worsening coronavirus outbreak. matt lamers | 5 min read cannabis sales surge over the weekend as world braces for coronavirus recreational cannabis sales in washington were up 33 percent on sunday, while ontario's sales were up a whopping 100 percent. lindsey bartlett | 2 min read coronavirus spikes demand for cannabis delivery as people stockpile products while the pandemic spreads, consumers are stockpiling products, staying at home, and using cannabis to cope. lindsey bartlett | 4 min read why your cannabis business needs an exit strategy even before you enter the marketplace investors will want to know how they'll get their money out before they hand you a dime. find out which three exit strategies they'll be considering. ross o'brien | 5 min read featured book start your own cannabis business buy now by javier hasse from retailers to growers, producers, and suppliers, there’s a seemingly never-ending list of startup opportunities in this emerging market. in start your own cannabis business, marijuana, biotech, and entrepreneurship reporter javier hasse introduces forward-thinking entrepreneurs like you to the industry and shares hard-earned tips and success stories from pioneers and visionaries in the marijuana industry. learn more latest video succession star brian cox says cannabis helps him relax the golden globe winner has been using the plant since he was 50. exclusive video: inside dixie brands partnership with arizona iced tea what you need to know to be successful in the cannabis industry featured contributors jonathan small editor in chief of green entrepreneur follow top story as the economy falters, will demand for cannabis continue to rise? javier hasse cannabis, biotech and entrepreneurship reporter follow top story law enforcement struggles to differentiate weed from hemp: this 50-year-old technology might be the solution lindsey bartlett editor follow top story 700 windows wrap this dispensary - store tour of harborside san leandro about us advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing entrepreneur products entrepreneur.com women entrepreneur books shop get the magazine join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. the information contained on this website ("content") represents the views and opinions of the persons or entities expressing them. the content does not represent an endorsement by, or the views and opinions of, entrepreneur media, inc. ("emi"), is intended for informational and educational purposes only, and should in no way be interpreted as medical, legal, or any other advice concerning the cultivation, sale, or any other use of marijuana, which, although legal in some states and local jurisdictions throughout the united states, is currently illegal under federal law, as well as in other states and local jurisdictions. because of the variety of laws, regulations, and ordinances concerning marijuana, the content may not be suitable for your situation. consequently, emi makes no expressed or implied warranties nor assumes any liability whatsoever, concerning the accuracy or reliability of the information contained herein, including warranties about the legality of, or likelihood of success in, conducting a cannabis business. emi does not advocate violating applicable law, and therefore strongly recommends that you carefully research applicable laws, and consult with appropriate licensed professionals and other experts, before taking any action in connection with, or based on, such content. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account