home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » recipe » grilled corn pesto pizza grilled corn pesto pizza june 10, 2019 brittany bailey 289shares facebook twitter pinterest grilled corn & pesto pizza i have been pinning lots of grilled pizza recipes, but honestly i’ve never grilled a pizza before. then i stumbled upon a recipe for grilled corn pizza and decided to alter it a little to suit my taste buds. the result is a light summery flavored pizza you can make in a jiffy. if you’re like me, you might want to start by cleaning your grill. but, if you’re fine with a little burger grease on the bottom of your pizza, go ahead and get grilling! (i’ve included affiliate links for your convenience. i earn a small percentage from a purchase using these links. there is no additional cost to you. you can read more about affiliate links here.) ingredients: pre-baked pizza crust (or make your own keto friendly crust) pesto sauce in a jar 1 ear of corn grilled salt & pepper to taste 1/4 cup shredded parmesan cheese 1 ripe tomato sliced 6-8 basil leaves sliced mozzarella (i prefer fresh mozzarella packaged in water) instructions: 1. pre-heat your grill on medium high. 2. soak corn inside the husks for 10-15 minutes in your sink. 3. place the corn (still inside the husks) on the grill for 10 minutes to steam cook (rotating halfway through.) the last few minutes, peel the husks back and lay them on the grill to char the exterior of the corn. rotate the corn and sprinkle salt and pepper to your taste. 4. place the pizza crust with the top facing down on the grill for a few minutes to toast it. remove the crust and set it on a plate (or pizza paddle.) 5. spread pesto onto the pizza crust. 6. cut corn off the cob. mix corn and parmesan in a bowl. 7. spread the corn mixture on top of the pesto-covered crust. 8. add sliced tomatoes and fresh mozzarella slices onto the the pizza. 9. put the pizza on the grill and close the lid. grill the pizza until the cheese starts to melt (check frequently and move it away from the heat if the crust starts to burn.) 10. at the last minute add the sliced basil on top of the pizza. remove the pizza before the basil browns. serve up your grilled corn pesto pizza hot and enjoy! magnificio! i can’t believe how much a grilled pizza tastes like crispy brick oven pizza! oh grilled pizza, where have you been all my life? do you have any grilled pizza recipes you like? please share in the comment section. 289shares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: recipe comments jeff patterson says july 17, 2012 at 9:14 am don’t feel bad brittany about not cleaning your grill, i’m right there with you. those products worked out great and i will definitely use them. i love pesto pizza and this recipe looks too good to pass up. thanks for the fantastic post. cherylm. says july 18, 2012 at 11:04 am this recipe sounds like it would be wonderful!! sue says july 18, 2012 at 11:39 am i have been following you and having your posts sent by email for a long time. i think i have a crush on you and your can do attitude! you inspire me to be more of a handy girl! sue says july 18, 2012 at 11:41 am oh, are we supposed to clean our grills…i think i figure that the heat will kill the germs and i guess i am part of the crowd that believes what doesn’t kill you makes you stronger, or more resistant. i will be 59 this year, so that thinking has worked thus far, but cleaning the grill probably wouldn’t be a bad thing. thanks for the giveaway. sue says july 18, 2012 at 11:49 am oh, girl- have you ever grilled red peppers. how fun, i can teach you something. get as many red peppers as you want, wash and dry and place on the hot grill. let the skins get black and blister and turn with tongs. when all the skin is black, place the peppers in a plastic or paper bag. ( i use plastic) the hot peppers will steam within the bag and when they are cool enough to handle, take them out, and peel off the black skin which will come off, easy peezy. these peppers will be just like the ones you can buy in jars, but you made them yourself. now that you have the peppers, add olive oil, balsamic vinegar, minced onions and fresh basil and fresh mozzarella, salt and fresh pepper. get some crusty italian bread and make a sandwich and bliss out. my nuni came from sicily and this was something i learned from her. hope you try this, i owe you for all i’ve learned from you. oh, when you are peeling the peppers after they have steamed, you take out the seed and take off the stem. the peppers are put on the grill whole. email me with any questions. mel says july 20, 2012 at 11:02 pm well, my husband and i just cleaned off the grill a few days ago, after putting it off since last season. we found a tiny frog in a pile of leaves inside the lower cabinet! now we can finally start some summer grilling. yay! read more comments: « 1 2 hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok