home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources category: growth read more featured / founders / growth #47: wayne neale – founder of growthx academy by timur meyster on may 6, 2017 wayne neale is the co-founder of growthx academy, a 12-week, on-site, immersive, full-time educational experience program focusing on careers in sales, growth marketing, and ux design. the academy was born out of the need for… read more featured / founders / growth / product / uncategorized #44: anthony pompliano – how an army sergeant became a product manager at facebook by timur meyster on april 24, 2017 anthony “pomp” pompliano is best known for his hustle. since early years, he’s been coming up with business ideas and today he invests in companies and helps them grow. before he became a venture capitalist,… read more featured / growth #35: everette taylor – how a 17-year-old who was homeless in high school rose to become the chief marketing officer at skurt by timur meyster on march 23, 2017 everette taylor is not just any 27-year-old. don’t be fooled by his age. to date, everette built four companies including growthhackers.com, which he co-founded with sean ellis, millisense marketing consulting, and growthpub. he is currently… read more featured / growth #25: ty olatoye – how to build genuine relationships & land a job by timur meyster on february 16, 2017 influenced by a strong nigerian culture of excellence, education and faith, ty moved from arizona to san francisco in search of that one opportunity that would push him every single day. currently, ty works on… read more design / featured / founders / growth #20: nick dewilde – program director at tradecraft focusing on biz dev, product design and growth by timur meyster on january 30, 2017 a san francisco-native, nick dewilde was so certain he wanted to make movies but he ended up taking on a different path that impacts people’s lives. nick is now the program director at tradecraft, an… read more featured / growth #17: ina herlihy – how a young journalist hustled her way into growth marketing by timur meyster on january 20, 2017 ina herlihy is a san francisco local who knows what’s it like to hustle your way to get the thing that you want since a very young age. she is passionate about journalism and was an editor-in-chief… read more featured / growth max rencoret – growth marketing manager by timur meyster on december 15, 2016 max rencoret grew up in chile where he first got exposed to its education system, startup culture, economic climate, government and other things that led him to a career in growth marketing, where he felt… subscribe be the first to get the latest breaking into startups podcast updates, right to your inbox. we’ll never spam you. our guests came from: about us the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds.our mission is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. facebook twitter instagram © 2020 breaking into startups. privacy policy top join 1,055 other subscribers! email subscribe now we respect your privacy. join our newsletter today! stay updated with all the latest episodes, upcoming events & much more. hack reactor prep prepare for any coding bootcam (free) learn more no thanks!