you must have javascript enabled to use gtmetrix gtmetrix requires javascript to function properly. please enable javascript in your browser and refresh the page to ensure the best gtmetrix experience. features resources blog gtmetrix pro log in sign up how fast does your website load? find out with gtmetrix see how your site performs, reveal why it's slow and discover optimization opportunities. test your site analysis options: testing in vancouver, canada using chrome (desktop) with an unthrottled connection. log in to change options latest news view changes tips for ensuring your website performs adequately during this increase in traffic. ✅ 1) ensure gzip/brotli compre… https://t.co/jrqvtqncd3 march 17, 2020 some interesting stats on internet with the #covid19 social distancing mandate and remote working surge:… https://t.co/chq7li93er march 17, 2020 whew! our chrome (android) mobile browser is back up! march 10, 2020 updates! 😔 our chrome (android) browser is currently unavailable due to maintenance; we're working on getting it u… https://t.co/cbn1qdily2 march 10, 2020 544,821,807 pages analyzed so far join thousands of people and companies around the world committed to making the web consistently fast. make sure your site is fast for everybody test your page in different countries, browsers, connection speeds and more get started for free wondering why your page is slow? we'll breakdown your page performance in a summarized report. get a detailed assessment with: pagespeed and yslow scores and recommendations page load details (time, size, number of requests) various analysis options waterfall, video and report history what else can gtmetrix do for you? track your performance over time we'll test your page on a schedule and keep track of how it's doing. learn why monitoring is important get notified when your page is slow set up an alert and get notified when your page underperforms. we'll send you an alert linked to a full report so you can know what happened. see how your page loads on different devices test your page on a real android device or on over 20 different simulated device options. analyze your performance with iphones, ipads, samsung galaxy/note, google nexus/pixel phones, and other popular devices. how does your page perform around the world? see how your page performs in 7 different global test locations and make sure it loads fast for all your visitors worldwide. see all our global test regions analyze your site now and see how well it performs! take advantage of all the features gtmetrix has to offer and make your site the fastest it can be! try it for free! need to use gtmetrix in a professional capacity? check out gtmetrix pro! gtmetrix rest api test server locations top 1000 sites frequently asked questions contact us about gtmetrix gtmetrix was developed by carbon60 as a tool for customers to easily test the performance of their webpages. learn more. want to work with us? check out our careers page. follow us follow us on twitter @gtmetrix like us on facebook terms of service | privacy | © 2020 gtmetrix, all rights reserved. log in e-mail password keep me logged in i forgot my password log in create an account sign up for gtmetrix free! create an account sign up today and get a suite of features and options to make optimizing your website speed clear and easy! first name last name nickname (do not fill out) e-mail* password* confirm password* i agree to the terms of service and privacy policy send me gtmetrix news, tips and offers create an account log in got an account? log in now! forgot your password? enter your e-mail address below to begin the process of resetting your password. e-mail send password a password reset link has been e-mailed to you. log in got an account? log in now! create an account sign up for gtmetrix free!