start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search guest blogging guidelines 0shares i am happy to know that you have considered writing a blog for productive club. i am looking forward to hear your ideas. here are a few guidelines to be aware of before writing a guest post for productive club the article must be original and not published elsewhere the article must contain a minimum of 1800 words. all my blog articles are lengthy and useful. i intend to follow the same for the guest posts too. the topic must be relevant to the overall topics of productive club such as productivity, reducing distractions, improving focus, starting a venture, overcoming procrastination, overcoming fear, utilizing time effectively, etc the article must meet the following criteria: hemingway editor – grade 6 or below with all other criteria met, writers diet test – lean or fit & trim, flesch reading test – score of 70 and above, grammarly – score of 85 plus with an additional rating of clear and engaging articles can be submitted in html or word format you may include a maximum of one self-promotion link(do-follow) within your article. your author bio along with a link to your blog will be linked separately at the end of the article yes, i would love to guest blog for productive club send me an email at maxim_dsouza@productiveclub.com with your idea. my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 0shares top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?