skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer the wonder of tech making personal technology user-friendly for you! home about archives social media contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! you are here: home / policies / guest post policy guest post policy have a great tech topic that you want to share with others? consider writing a guest post for the wonder of tech! i accept guest posts about personal technology for everyday people. note that very few requests are considered and even fewer requests result in articles published at the wonder of tech. if you are interesting in writing a guest post for the wonder of tech, send at least three topic ideas to me at carolyn@wonderoftech.com. please send me the topic ideas before writing the article so i can let you know whether the topic has been covered before or if it’s a good fit for our readers. please note that i get many requests each day for guest posts at the wonder of tech. unfortunately, i cannot respond to all inquiries. if you want to get my attention, address me by name and show some knowledge about the wonder of tech. do not send me an unsolicited article until a topic has been approved. some ideas for topics: awesome apps fun and/or useful websites cool gadgets social media tips helpful tech tips please also send me links to your blog, if you have one, or writing samples at other blogs. if you send me links to writing samples credited to other authors or that does not credit you as the author, your request will be immediately rejected without an opportunity for reconsideration. authors who have not previously been published on the internet will be considered only in rare circumstances. tips for your pitch here are some tips to increase your chances for success when you pitch a guest post proposal to the wonder of tech: start your email with “hey carolyn” so i know you’ve read this guest post policy. (i’m not a fan of spam or bots.) introduce yourself. tell me who you are, who you work for and your experience with tech/blogging. include links to articles you’ve written that credit you as the author. tell me why i should accept your guest post. key => what value will it bring to wonder of tech readers? give me your three brilliant topic ideas related to personal technology that haven’t already been covered at the wonder of tech. tell me that you have read this policy and are willing to comply with it. requirements guest posts will only be accepted at the wonder of tech if they meet these requirements: the article must be your original work, not published elsewhere, including your own website. you must disclose if a company is paying you to write the guest post. articles should be saved in .docx format, in google docs, or embedded in the email. you must agree to respond to comments from readers. readers often have questions about articles and, by writing about the topic, you are their expert. comments are open at the wonder of tech for a limited time after publication. failure to respond to comments may mean forfeiting author links in the article. guest posts need to be written in english. i don’t require perfect english, but i have to be able to understand what you’re saying. i reserve the right to edit the article for grammar, spelling and readability. proofread your article closely. if your article contains a lot of typos then your chances of publication are significantly reduced. no confusing tech terms. tech needs to be explained in plain english as simply as possible. your article must contain information that helps the readers learn something they didn’t know before. the wonder of tech has readers ranging from tech newbies to tech experts. please include headers, if appropriate, to break your article into smaller sections a minimum of 750 words is required please include images that you have created yourself or are free to use under creative commons. include a link to the source of the image and give credit where appropriate. attach image files separately, do not embed them in your article. affiliate links will not be accepted. articles will not have do follow links. you may link to your website in your bio. if you include any links within the article, they must relate to the topic being discussed. provide an author bio. you may include a gravatar image and twitter id, if you have them. please share your guest post at the wonder of tech with others using social media, email, etc. note that i have a zero tolerance policy about affiliate links. if you include one in your article or bio, the post will be rejected without an opportunity for you to edit the article to remove the link. i receive many requests for guest posts and i simply do not have the time to deal with posts with affiliate links. i check each guest post draft for plagiarism. if i detect either plagiarism or copyright infringement, your post will be rejected without an opportunity for editing. benefits of writing for the wonder of tech: reach an audience of engaged readers who are eager to learn about tech. bring readers to your website share your exciting tech with others sorry, no compensation is paid to guest authors. what you can expect: after you have sent me topics, i will let you know which topics, if any, would be a good fit for the wonder of tech. after you submit the article, i will review it and let you know whether i will consider it for publication and whether any changes need to be made. approval of a topic does not guarantee that your guest post will be published. i will try to publish your guest post as soon as possible but publication dates cannot be guaranteed. requests for me writing a guest post: writing for the wonder of tech keeps me quite busy so my availability for guest posts is very limited. please send your requests to me at carolyn@wonderoftech.com. tweet share2 share pin email 2 shares primary sidebar carolyn nicander mohr subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: search the wonder of tech! search this website recent posts google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources 12 ways tech can help with social distancing how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center 3 ways to avoid social distance in the age of technology redbox launches free live tv, no subscription needed recent comments carolyn nicander mohr on google maps celebrates 15 years with new features! carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing popular posts chirp – a new place to get deals on audiobooks how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center google maps adds enhanced guidance for people with impaired vision (and everyone else) survey shows how wearables can improve lives [infographic] the many reasons why you may want apple carplay in your next (or current) car subscribe to the wonder of tech rss feed wonder of tech rss feed like the wonder of tech on facebook like the wonder of tech on facebook! triberr atomic tribe subscribe to the wonder of tech on feedly! subscribe on the kindle! the wonder of tech kindle subscription by subscribing to the wonder of tech on the kindle, you can have new articles automatically downloaded as soon as they're published! privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy categories categories select category android apps breaking news cameras cars cell phones cell phones cloud computers ebooks education ereaders featured fitness gaming devices internet ipad ipad iphone iphone mac movies music personal technology personal technology photography robots shopping social media tablets television triberr uncategorized wearables websites windows subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: footer subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: let’s connect! facebook flickr google+ linkedin pinterest rss twitter youtube home about archives social media policies privacy policy comment policy guest post policy review policy thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! tags 3d amazon android apple apps at&t cloud education email facebook fitness fun videos gaming gifts google gps handy tips hulu+ internet radio ipad iphone itunes kindle movies music netflix nintendo nook parenting photography pinterest poll roku sd cards security shopping slingbox tablets texts travel twitter verizon virgin mobile wearables youtube copyright © 2020 · digital pro on genesis framework · wordpress · log in home about archives social media policies thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here!