skip to content wine blog #7wordwinereview reviews wine racks wine coolers wine aerator what makes the lidl gin so darned popular 10 most popular champagne brands internationally – most are delicious a review of jay z’s ace of spades champagne best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktails at home best whiskey glasses 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best red wine glasses of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best rhubarb gin: brands that will turn even rhubarb haters best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it? 5 best toffee vodka brands that makes you very kissable | 2020 champagne gin non-alcoholic wine vodka close menu search toggle menu home > interviews / wine blog guest blog-doug rumsam: m.d. of bordeaux index hong kong published date 21st september 2011 last modified date 17th march 2020 categories interviews / wine blog author guest blogger 22shares sharetweet doug rumsam: bordeaux index hong kong hong kong market insight- the end of en primeur signaled a slowdown in the fine wine market in hk. but this was nothing unusual, august is traditionally the slowest month of the year, with the french all hitting the beaches and shutting up shop and the rest of the trade doing likewise. september was forecast to be a strong month with the mid autumn festival on the calendar and we saw a pickup in business but not the huge surge witnessed last year. instead as european economies spluttered and stock markets faltered, there was a hesitancy to dive in and fully replenish stock reserves. the festival came and went and prices softened a little which prompted renewed activity. we saw particular interest in lafite, drc and most especially large format bottles. collections of 2000 double magnums and imperials flew out of the door with demand for mouton 2000 large formats at record highs. as stocks in china funnel through to end clients and business picks up again, so the volumes start to creep up. no-one can afford to sit on the sidelines when there are deals to be made! the action at last weekend auction was also promising and already parcels of drc and first growths have been sold at the start of this week. prices may have retreated a little but that’s understandable. wine prices are not immune to the wider economic picture the trend for value now seems to have truly taken off. we have seen numerous requests for off vintages of pichons, ducru, las cases and montrose amongst others. it hasn’t taken too long for mainland consumers to work out there’s more to life than lafite…and on that note we see burgundy beginning to take off. still, all the drinkers need not panic just yet, i think the complicated network of growers and wines will mean it’s a tough transition from the relative safety of bordeaux. what’s more, you simply cannot get the quantity to make investing interesting, so bordeaux will always be in the thick of the action. 12×75.com appreciates doug for taking the time out to pen down a report for our readers. 12×75.com are big fans of doug !! doug rumsam is the managing director of bordeaux index in hong kong related post: interview with stephen browett of farr vintners summary article name guest blog by doug rumsam of bordeaux index description doug rumsam of bordeaux index, hong kong, very kindly gave us a snapshot of the wine market in hong kong author vim publisher name 12x75 publisher logo 22shares sharetweet related posts wine blog 7 best sake bottles – buyer’s guide & tips wine blog / wine decanters how to decant wine without a decanter – 5 different ways champagne / wine blog a review of jay z’s ace of spades champagne prev post time and structure next post interview with adon kumar: the last few days as the president of wine searcher about 12×75.com 12×75 is a light hearted, comical wine blog which focuses on wine news, reviews, food & interviews with leading figures in the world of wine. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. articles about twelve by seventy five ltd (who have nothing to do with 12×75.com) will the real 12×75 please stand up, please stand up investment firm twelve by seventy five is not 12×75 recent posts best non alcoholic gin 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews most shared posts best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it?... being a native californian but living in nyc, i think i&# 28 shares best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktai... cocktail shakers are used for a variety of reasons in a v 35 shares the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s gu... what is it about opening wine that can sometimes be so an 33 shares interviews stephen browett – farr vintners doug rumsam – bordeaux index mark schuringa – ditton wine traders adon kumar – wine searcher judy leissner – grace vineyard peter lunzer – lunzer investments james miles – liv ex mark bedini – fine+rare david elghanayan – vanquish benjamin wallace – the billionaire’s vinegar paula & stacey golding – premier cru fine wine investments henri lurton – chateau brane-cantenac nigel jagger – octavian simon berry – berry bros. & rudd aline baly – chateau coutet adam brett-smith – corney & barrow maximilian riedel – riedel tony laithwaite – laithwaite’s wine pages about us contact us subscribe #7wordwinereview power… sitemap for great london seo services click away. ©2020 back to top search search close