content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip guidelines for sharing and republishing content so you want to republish a piece of content from cmi or any of our properties? first off, thanks! we love it when people want to share our stuff. we have some requests when it comes to how our content gets shared: social sharing of course, we love when you share our content via social media. if you want this to catch our attention, please use the following twitter handle and hashtags (across all social platforms): @cmicontent and #cmworld or #contenttech article summaries feel free to publish a summary of any of our articles, along with a link to the full piece. and if you include our twitter hashtag and handles, we’ll help spread the love. images and infographics all images, including our custom graphics, can be included in your published content, as long as you adhere to our content attribution policy (see below). full blog posts on the web we ask that you do not reprint any articles from cmi in full. if you are the author and would like to reuse or repurpose your article, we ask that you abide by the content attribution policy below. in addition, please do the following: wait two weeks between the publication date and the time you re-post an article. include the canonical tag to the article so cmi is noted as the original source: <link rel=”canonical” href=”url of blog post”> (or use an appropriate plugin). print articles we allow print publications to repurpose one cmi digital article every six months. please email kim borden (kim.borden@ubm.com) for prior approval. translation of articles you are welcome to translate one article from cmi into another language. if you would like to translate additional articles, please email kim borden (kim.borden@ubm.com) for additional details. content attribution policy for summaries, social sharing, reprints, and images, we ask that you adhere to the following guidelines. 1) cite content marketing institute as the original source. 2) link to the source on cmi: article/blog post summaries and print articles: link to the url of the original article. images: link to the url where our original image is stored. embedded infographics, video and slideshares: embed the original infographic, video, or presentation using the provided embed code. content that is gated (content that we ask people to sign up for): link to the landing page, not the pdf. any questions on cmi’s republishing guidelines? please email cmi_info@ubm.com connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree