skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: guides & how to’s 5 ways to fix temperature variations in your home and save energy is there a spot in your home that’s always hotter or colder than the rest? it’s more common than you think. fix temperature variations right away and you’ll extend the life of your hvac system and save on your home energy bills. when a room’s temperature varies, your hvac sys… by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling how to keep your heating and cooling vents clean dusty heating and cooling vents aren’t just ugly. they can also restrict the airflow into a room if the dust buildup gets bad enough, and you risk dust and debris getting down into your air ducts. so, to keep your heating and cooling vents free of dust and debris, below… by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling 5 inexpensive ways to make your home more energy efficient this summer there’s a lot of information out there on how to make your home more energy efficient. while it’s all meant to be helpful, some of the advice is not the most practical. not all of us can afford to install solar panels or to buy all new appliances. with that… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in energy how to light your hallway don’t let hallway lighting be an afterthought. use this guide to light your hallway well. image: svet_feo/shutterstock lighting is important. interior designers, real estate agents and staging pros will all tell you it’s true. if you want your home or apartment to feel inviting, it needs… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in other rooms how to flush your hot water heater your hot water heater is your pal. very few people look forward to a cold shower, but a luxurious steamy one or — better yet — a long soak in the tub can be just what you need to decompress from a stressful day or shake off muscular soreness. your… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling how to save money on furniture by knowing what to keep combine old and new furniture for a stylish new bedroom. image: photographee.eu/shutterstock we hope you like the products we recommend. just so you are aware, freshome may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. when you’re ready for a new look for your home,… by diana hathaway on march 4, 2020 in inspiration how to decorate with neon lights indoors are you looking for a way to add a fun, artsy twist to your home? then you might want to consider neon lights. at first, this can feel like a tacky idea usually reserved for bars and the windows of tattoo parlors. but you can actually make neon lights work… by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in inspiration tips for restoring your wood floors hardwood floors have an incomparable beauty and they can add warmth and style to any room. whether you have a traditional home with architectural details or a modern, industrial space, hardwoods fit right in. that’s why many homeowners even use hardwood floors in… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in flooring how to create the ultimate game room it’s nearly everyone’s dream: the ultimate game room. whether you’re into classic pool hall games, retro arcade cabinets, card games or the latest in video games, you can’t beat having a place to go in your own home where the only thing to think about is having fun. also, the… by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in other rooms how to choose the right porch lighting for your home improve your home’s curb appeal with new porch lighting. image: david papazian/shutterstock we hope you like the products we recommend. just so you are aware, freshome may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. porch lighting is an important part of your home’s curb appeal,… by diana hathaway on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 1 2 … 4 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss