menu home products gut-14 - #1 premium probiotic with 50 billion cfus and 14 different live strains + delayed release take back your digestive health, immune function, ability to lose weight, and get balanced flora with avocadu's premium probiotic! 50 billion cfu's per serving 14 different gut healing strains delayed release for deeper support made in the usa get my bottle of gut-14 today! 60 servings 30-day supply 14 different premium strains our people love our probiotics! :) why probiotics are so popular lately... faster and more reliable weight loss results when dieting better skin health and radiance improved digestion and healing leaky gut improved immune system health healthier gut = healthier life! get my bottle of gut-14! faster and more reliable weight loss results studies have found that certain strains of the lactobacillus family can help you lose weight and belly fat. during a 3-month study period, the women taking the probiotics lost 50% more weight compared to the group taking a dummy pill (placebo). they also continued to lose weight during the weight maintenance phase of the study. additionally, studies in japanese adults have shown similarly impressive results (2, 3, 4).. ﻿more mental clarity and a better mood an increasing number of studies link gut health to mood and mental health (8). a review of 15 human studies found supplementing with bifidobacterium and lactobacillus strains for 1–2 months can improve anxiety, depression, autism, obsessive-compulsive disorder (ocd) and memory (9). . so more memory and mental clarity! less sickness and more vitality/energy more than 40 different diseases and have been linked to having a bacterial imbalance including depression, ibs, arthritis, and cancer. this is no surprise seeing the poor gut health of the modern society and knowing that 80% of your immune system is located in your gut! probiotics may help give your immune system a boost and inhibit the growth of harmful gut bacteria (10). better skin quality, health, and fewer breakouts studies have found probiotics can heal your skin and give you more vibrancy. orally consumed probiotics reduce systemic markers of inflammation and oxidative stress, both of which are factors in healthy and vibrant skin (5). the gut microbiota influences lipids and tissue fatty acid profiles and may influence sebum production as well as the fatty acid composition of the sebum (6). this may explain why a russian study found that 54% of acne patients have significant alterations to the gut flora (7), and a chinese study involving patients with seborrheic dermatitis also noted disruptions in the normal gut flora. why do we need probiotics in the first place?﻿ almost everyone living in the 21st century needs some form of probiotic support! here’s why: thanks to prescription antibiotics, diets high in refined carbohydrates, high carbohydrate diets in general, the fluoride/chlorine in our tap water, and high levels of stress in our "go-go-go" society, the good bacteria in our guts are being killed off, and our bodies can't replace them at the rate required for a healthy, balanced gut! 6 major probiotic killers in the 21st century prescription antibiotics toxic load from pesticides and household products stress and lack of sleep sugar intake drinking tap water (chlorine and fluoride talked about above) eating too many whole grains (plus gluten) meanwhile, “bad” bacteria can flourish while the “good” bacteria is killed off, leaving your system open to attacks and malfunction. if you're truly looking to heal your gut and repopulate your healthy gut bacteria the right way, there is a simple 3 step formula you should follow: (1) eliminate foods and toxins that feed bad bacteria. (2) start consuming probiotic-rich foods and supplements. (3) consume foods the good probiotics were designed to live off (veggies and healthy foods!) but probiotics can help to speed this process up! probiotics are “good” bacteria that improve digestive health, increase healthy nutrient absorption, and boost your immune system to help fight off sickness. it's also very important to choose your probiotics wisely. how to pick a probiotic supplement﻿ while there are quite a few companies selling probiotics, the majority of products don’t live up to their hype. that’s because most probiotic supplements can be destroyed by stomach acid before they even get to the digestive tract. worse than that, they are often cheaply made in china in a low quality and dirty factory. this is why we use a delayed release system and have our products made right here in the usa! what makes gut-14 different from all the rest? shelf stable large cfu count made in the usa lactobacillus potent get your bottle of gut-14 today! best value best value 1 bottle gut-14 single try our probiotics out! you’ll love them! $45.00 $39.95 10% off! default title - $39.95 usd buy now! best value best value 2 bottles gut-14 double double up and save money! $90.00 $74.95 $37 each! default title - $74.95 usd buy now! best value best value 3 bottles gut-14 triple our family pack is the best deal! save 25%! $135.00 $98.95 $33 each! default title - $98.95 usd buy now! what people are saying about us... theteam@avocadu.com home faqs money-back guarantee join our newsletter contact us disclaimer privacy policy terms & conditions get started today... get my bottle of gut-14 social link social link social link copyright © 2016 the new grind, llc dba avocadu.com · all rights reserved