skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events gutenberg 7.7 ships refreshed ui and first iteration of block patterns justin tadlock · march 16, 2020 · 9 comments last week, version 7.7 of the gutenberg plugin shipped to users. in what is one of the more visually-striking updates in a while, the design team presented a refreshed ui. users will also get their first chance to test the upcoming block patterns feature. some users may get a surprise. gutenberg 7.7 is the first version of the plugin to ship the editor in fullscreen mode out of the box. this change will land in wordpress 5.4. now is a good opportunity to see how it works before upgrading later this month. block developers can rejoice for the ability to create their own block wrappers. this is part of a change for creating a faster dom. inner blocks also produce a lighter dom output, so the element tree in the editor now matches the front end. these changes make it easier for theme designers to style blocks without a convoluted mess of nested <div> elements. version 7.7 includes over two dozen bug fixes. it also includes a fix for the “view posts” back button at the top of the editor while in fullscreen mode. instead of an arrow button, which was confusing for users who thought it might return them to the regular editing mode, the team replaced it with the wordpress “w” icon. a fresh and clean editor ui refreshed ui in gutenberg 7.7. it took a few days to grow on me after more than a year getting accustomed to the old ui. the basics are the same. the layout has not changed. however, the buttons and related elements have received a nice refresh. the editor feels more professional. the block toolbar is simpler and cleaner. the gutenberg team redesigned the icons. the color contrast makes everything crisper. the block inserter now uses the full height of the editor. this is a large improvement over earlier iterations. it means less scrolling to find the right block, which has been one of my pet-peeves (i have fewer and fewer of these with each release). this is a first pass over the new interface, and there is still more work for the gutenberg design team to tackle. work on the sidebar, dropdowns, and other elements is currently in progress and should land in upcoming plugin updates. overall, the ui is much more polished. the average wordpress user will not experience it until wordpress 5.5, but it is well worth installing and activating the gutenberg plugin to give it a spin. early work toward block patterns inserting a pattern into the block editor. perhaps one of the most-anticipated gutenberg features is the inclusion of a pattern library. a pattern is a collection of blocks in a predefined arrangement. for example, a common pattern is a large hero image with text and a couple of buttons laid over the top. another common pattern is a set of three or four boxes aligned next to each other, each with a title, image, and text. the more complex a particular layout, the harder it is to create from the editor without the know-how. that’s where patterns come in. they are a sort of “template” that allows end-users to quickly build out sections of content without the requirement of inserting the individual blocks. patterns will be a game-changer. some projects have already made solid attempts at something akin to patterns. shareablock’s community-based shared blocks and gutenberg hub’s copy-and-paste templates are good options for people who know about those projects. users are even turning the reusable block system into faux patterns. however, few solutions will be able to compete with having a true block patterns api and exposing those patterns in the ui to end-users. the new patterns feature in gutenberg 7.7 is meant as a minimum viable product and not representative of what the feature will look like by the time it ships in core wordpress. at the moment, the ui is a new sidebar with a small sampling of patterns to choose from. however, patterns will likely be a part of the block inserter or exposed differently down the road. the goal is to ship something that works and iterate. currently, the team has bundled only four patterns: two columns of text two buttons cover two images side by side while these particular patterns are not exciting, they are simple examples to begin testing the feature. the big question: what patterns should gutenberg include by default? there is currently an open github ticket to discuss and implement the possibilities. there are several proposals for commonly-seen patterns around the web. the ideal people to be involved with this discussion would be theme authors because they have been working closely and directly with users for years. with enough solid patterns in core, it would mean less code work in themes. instead of building dozens of patterns to achieve modern layouts, theme authors could focus more on the design aspect of theme development. in testing, the feature worked without issue. after selecting the patterns sidebar, you simply select the pattern you want, which is inserted directly in the content area of the editor. from that point, you can edit like any other block. patterns will certainly make the block editor far more competitive with page building plugins. more than anything, they will allow users to more quickly build layouts that often make for an overly complex and frustrating experience. right now, the pattern library is not included in the most recent roadmap update for 2020. however, i could see it making an official appearance in wordpress this year if work continues at its current pace. that is merely speculation, and perhaps a little hope, but this is one of the most exciting gutenberg features in the works. share this: click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on telegram (opens in new window) click to share on whatsapp (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) like this: like loading... posted in news 9 comments marcus tibesar march 16, 2020, 4:18 pm · reply wow! i created my first gb ver 7.7.1 post yesterday, and it is beautiful! really a smooth experience. congratulations to the gutenberg developers! loading... report stephen vaughan march 16, 2020, 4:23 pm · reply i took it for a spin the other day. this is a nice update to the ui. loading... report patrick b march 16, 2020, 6:06 pm · reply i like many of the updates, but other’s don’t make sense. if you’re in full screen mode it doesn’t make sense to have the exist editor back to the posts gird be the wordpress logo when in the past it was a left carrot. it also seems that adding new blocks is much more of a manual process. the add new block button doesn’t show up except after the last block on the page. the drag and drop has also been changed in a way that manes it more manual, which is the only option of you have the editor set to top toolbar. loading... report mike schinkel march 16, 2020, 6:33 pm · reply i agree. pattern libraries will be a game changer. something wordpress has needed for a decade+. better late than never. loading... report matt c. march 16, 2020, 7:09 pm · reply block patterns are great. it seems the implementation is very similar to this user-created plugin. i’ve used this often, it’s really powerful and lean. https://wordpress.org/plugins/design/ loading... report justin tadlock march 17, 2020, 10:57 am · reply cool. i don’t think i’ve come across that one before. or, i have and forgot about it. there are so many developers who have been building similar solutions. loading... report adrian march 17, 2020, 4:36 am · reply i’ve updated to 7.7.1 few hours ago on a client site. well, i work on my macbook with safari browser and it is a pain working with the new editor. if i click on a block, screen moves up or down to selected block, moving blocks does not work sometimes (for example i have a two column block and inside column two a button block which could not be moved anywhere) and few other bugs. versions before worked nice, i was a fan of gutenberg. it seems that some browsers do not get attention as before. loading... report david do march 17, 2020, 10:35 am · reply congratulations to the gutenberg developers! loading... report bastian march 19, 2020, 8:58 am · reply in previous versions, they removed the visual cue when hovering over blocks that helped me to identify where each block began and ended, now they have removed it even when editing a block. puzzling. do core devs know that wordpress is not only used by bloggers? loading... report leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. join the discussion via emailget only replies to your comment, the best of the rest, as well as a daily recap of all comments on this post. no more than a few emails daily, which you can reply to/unsubscribe from directly from your inbox. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. %d bloggers like this: