home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog hilarious hello parody – you’ve gotta watch it! december 19, 2015 by erin weiss leave a comment so this video is just hilarious so i had to share it with y'all. it's a hello parody from adele's song called "hello", but this one is more like "hella cravings for some fries" that will relate to each and every one of us with the struggle we all have with making it to the gym and eating healthy. hello parody (by dustin and genevieve ahkuoi) if you're somewhere that … [read more...] 10 reasons why you should workout today april 2, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment debating on weather or not you should go to the gym today? maybe one or more of these reasons will help persuade you to hit the gym. here are 10 reasons why you should workout today. #1) you will look better naked. #2) you won't be the first to die in the hunger games. #3) your pants will fit. #4) you will become more self confident. #5) … [read more...] weight lifting myths – your questions answered august 23, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments i can't even count the amount of times i've heard women in the locker room or at work telling each other completely crazy things they have heard about working out and how the body works. most of this is completely wrong and these myths need to be addressed! the folks at the daily burn have helped us to explain the truth behind some of these common weight room myths. 1. … [read more...] the kick your button leg workout july 23, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i've got a killer leg workout for you guys today. it's a tough one!!! hover over the image and pin it to pinterest so you don't forget to try this workout later! note: be careful with the bench jumps. at that point in the workout, your legs should already be fatigued, so if you don't feel comfortable doing them, you can skip that part (or move them to the … [read more...] my new favorite running shoes july 19, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i'm so so so excited i've found some shoes that i absolutely love! sorry for so many pictures, but these are my new babies! i recently partnered up with finish line and got to try out some new nike running shoes. my package came in the mail this week. i'm not sure what i like more now...the blue tiffany's box or the orange nike box!! seriously i get so excited … [read more...] the orbit girl talks weight training june 20, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment the orbit girl got it right!!! use weight training to blast away that fat!!! oh and i never claimed to be great at photo shop...so ignore her alien looking blurry hand ;) … [read more...] what’s beautiful may 24, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment yesterday i came home to a big box from under armour! how exciting! since i'm part of the under armour "what's beautiful" campaign, the folks at under armour sent me some awesome gear to try out. i'm obsessed!!! they must have known that i love pink! i got a great tank that's jersey material, bright pink shoes, 6 headbands, a poster and a flash drive with some … [read more...] my new motivation march 25, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i've finally set a new goal for myself to keep me motivated! i needed to schedule something so i'm doing a photo shoot at the end of april :) i decided to work with the same photographer again who took these shots... photographer: brian weitzeil of prodigious photography i liked his work a lot and he was fun to work with, so we are going to shoot together again … [read more...] how to manage your time & workouts february 11, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment how to manage your time & workouts i have been so swamped lately with life. i have to find time to balance my full time job, gym time, prepping food, my blog, my online personal training team, my isagenix business, housework & taking care of my two dogs and a boyfriend (haha, ladies, you know it's true! sorry, ryan!). we all lead busy lives, but everyone has the … [read more...] leg day workout january 9, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments if you follow me on facebook, you already know that i just posted... well...i stuck to my word and lifted heavier than i ever have in my life!! i usually never post the amount of weight that i lift, but i've found that when i see what another girl lifted, it always makes me push harder because i know that it's possible (thanks to little b for the motivation you gave … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in