subscribe get started {{category.text}} {{section.heading.text}} {{link.text}} {{ad.text}} featured stories how 350+ phds and ai researchers are banding together to fight the corona outbreak artur kiulian march 27 ai building a twitter bot to automate posting cryptocurrency news with python [a step-by-step guide] nicholas resendez march 27 cryptocurrency why the fed’s money machine makes tokenized gold a good investment frederik bussler march 27 gold email marketing: cold email outreach solutions review for smbs kirill march 27 saas deploying complex microservice apps using pmkft [a how to guide] vamsi chemitiganti march 27 microservices blockchain blockchain use cases: cutting through the hype carl lang march 26 blockchain how far away are we from a completely cashless society? btcread march 25 blockchain catchain consensus algorithm of telegram's ton blockchain [a deep dive] mercuryo march 21 telegram a.i. automation on the high seas: ai-driven cargo ships are here to stay giorgi mikhelidze march 27 ai improving the internet for those with disabilities (feat. artificial intelligence) andrew rossow march 27 ai covid-19: ai fighting the pandemic terror michaellyam march 26 artificial intelligence startups how can small businesses benefit from accepting cryptocurrency? smith willas march 27 cryptocurrency how to secure your saas application prabalta rijal march 27 saas startups pros and cons of the gig economy: can remote workers be assets in small business? daglar cizmeci march 26 freelancing programming exposing secrets on github: what to do after leaking credentials and api keys jean dubrulle | gitguardian march 27 cyber security dependency injection to make your code testable [a how-to guide] tyler hawkins march 26 javascript introduction to rxjava: observable pattern hari ya march 26 java cryptocurrency a brief review of 20 crypto exchanges for 2020 btc peers march 27 exchanges cryptocurrency investment strategies: momentum trading versus call options [reviewed] philipp kallerhoff march 27 cryptocurrency dpos mining yields for master nodes [an analysis] alexa josh march 27 dpos mining for readers for writers for sponsors about us hacker noon reflects the technology industry with unfettered stories and opinions written by real tech professionals. we believe we can get closer to the truth by elevating thousands of voices. to the reader, we pledge no paywall, no pop up ads, and evergreen (get it?) content. learn how hackers start their afternoons on hacker noon. create hacker noon account hacker noon elevates tech writing far and wide across the interwebs. with 25k+ stories in our library, we’ve cultivated rare publishing and technology expertise. we believe tech infiltrates all aspects of life, so writers from all industries are welcome here. to the contributing writer, we pledge quality distribution, editorial expertise and community access. submit a tech story hacker noon partners with companies that build cool products and employ people worth publishing. to sponsors, we currently offer sitewide billboard, brand-as-author stories, podcast placements, and events. sponsors keep hacker noon free for readers forever and add to the reading experience rather than distracting from it. sponsoring hacker noon is great way to make a positive impression on tech’s brightest minds. sponsor hacker noon hacker noon is an independent technology publication with the tagline, how hackers start their afternoons. founded in 2016 and run by david smooke and linh dao smooke, hacker noon is one of the fastest growing tech publications with 7,000+ contributing writers, 200,000+ daily readers and 8,000,000+ monthly pageviews. our traffic is ranked in the top 5k of all websites worldwide and in the top 3k of all us websites by alexa. we publish ≈ 20 stories per day from around the internet. learn more about us hackernoon newsletter curates great stories by real tech professionals get solid gold sent to your inbox. every week! topics of interest software development blockchain crypto general tech best of hacker noon more telegram vs whatsapp vs utopia matthew march 27 messenger reasons behind creating a website with black background nesha march 21 web design common sense for companies during the covid-19 pandemic madiha jamal march 21 coronavirus impact on business 10 promising hardware startups to follow in 2020 at march 19 hardware takeaways from sequoia capital's black swan memo andy chan march 16 venture capital as chess gains recognition as a sport, can e-sports be far behind? james clarke march 15 esports privacy matters even if you "have nothing to hide.” freddy marsden march 15 privacy founder's interview: gauthier bros of atayen inc ma. czarina mai delos reyes march 15 satt using capital asset pricing model (capm) versus black scholes model to value stocks [a how-to guide] antoine march 15 finance help about start writing sponsor: brand-as-author sitewide billboard contact us privacy terms