instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "halloween" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: halloween rebecca 3 min read october 29, 2019 no reply halloween events: the week of halloween around ottawa there are only a few days left until halloween, but if you have young children (babies and toddlers) who aren’t in school, there are still many events happening this week that you might want to get involved in! while my kiddos are at school all week and our final halloween blast of fun happened this weekend (pumpkin carving! saunders farm! decorations!) until we are back in costume on halloween night, i remember the days leading up to halloween when they were at home with me and we were looking for some fun. or maybe you are just wanting to have a back up plan for halloween night in case you decide the weather is not cooperating for an extended door-to-door trick or treat session. i’ve gathered a list of fun halloween activities happening this week! halloween activities in ottawa between october 30 and october 31 toddler hunt at the diefenbunker on october 31, bring your little ones to the diefenbunker* for an underground friendly haunt (oh wait, that’s hunt!) for treats. admission is free for kids under 5, and by donation for others. the fun begins at 10:30 until 3:30 and of course costumes are encouraged. no reservations are required. the haunted community centre at dovercourt if you want to avoid trick or treating in the rain (although i am hoping the forecast changes!) or just want to bring your little ones to a fun, indoor activity, check out the free haunted community centre event at dovercourt between 6:30 and 8:30 pm! wild child coffee project halloween party on wednesday, october 30, dress the wee one up and head to wild child coffee project for their special halloween party! their regular admission fee applies but beginning at 9 am until 3 pm, enjoy a halloween-filled day! visit the facebook page for details on the activities planned. trick or treat at a mall place d’orleans is once again hosting a special halloween day. trick or treaters can look for treats at participating stores between 10 am and noon, and from 10 am until 2 pm there will be face painting in the bmo court! billings bridge shopping centre welcomes guests for their enchanted halloween parade on october 31 at 5 pm until 7 pm. kids in costumes between the ages of 4 and 12 will receive treats! check out the mall nearest you to see if they have a special halloween event! if you do end up taking the littlest kiddos trick or treating (which i highly recommend!) here are a few tips: bring a bag with handles. pillow cases were amazing when we were kids, but turns out, little ones don’t hold onto them very well! bring mitts – hands are the first thing to get cold! go early! you’ll usually be able to tell when the acceptable time is in your neighbourhood based on when you see others out or your own bell rings, but as soon as you think you can, take them out! overtired children aren’t fun to trick or treat with stay safe and have fun together! *the diefenbunker is a blog advertiser but this event makes the list because it’s on halloween, for little ones and looks like fun! rebecca 2 min read october 23, 2019 no reply 12 fun things to do with kids before halloween activities and crafts, kids you don’t have to love halloween to enjoy spending time together as a family – but when you can make that time a little more holiday themed, why not drink the witch’s brew and join in the fun? here’s a list of ways to celebrate halloween and the season leading up to october 31. a few of these are great for little ones, some are better for older kids – so pick and choose a few – there’s still time before halloween! 12 fun things to do with kids before halloween 1) go to a pumpkin patch many pumpkin patches offer fun family activities that are halloween or autumn related like a wagon ride. enjoy being outside! 2) carve pumpkins i love doing this! we’ve made it a fun family activity with some of our little cousins! 3) decorate! add a few cobwebs, maybe a bat or two and voila! simple decorations for inside or outside the house. here’s how to make your own felt bats that are soooo simple! 4) play a hide and seek game hide a paper spider, or a mini pumpkin and then encourage the kids to find it! 5) make cookies pumpkin shaped cookies are easy to make with a pumpkin cookie cutting and orange icing (you can find my sugar cookie recipe here) and fun to share! 6) go costume shopping or make costumes we often have costumed planned out in august but don’t usually buy them until october. 7) count ghosts! here’s a counting game i used to do with the kids. this activity is really great for wee ones! 8) make a halloween photo booth! 9) watch the nightmare before christmas (if your kids are ready/old enough) 10) watch it’s the great pumpkin charlie brown! it’s a classic. 11) go to the library and find new halloween-themed/spooky books the kids will love discovering new books, and i recommend you grab one for yourself! the local library often has a halloween themed section for spooky, supernatural and thrilling stories! 12) make a scarecrow we’ve been raking the leaves in preparation! 12 activities to do with the kids before #halloween via @bitofmomsense click to tweet what do you like to do before halloween with the kids? rebecca 1 min read october 22, 2019 no reply halloween with the city of ottawa (and trick or or swim or skate!) around ottawa this post is in partnership with the city of ottawa halloween is just around the corner and i have two things i wanted to share with you in partnership with the city of ottawa. the first is that their popular trick or swim or skate program is back! you can purchase tickets to hand out on halloween (these make excellent non-candy, allergy-safe treats!) which entitle a child to a free public skate at one of the area ice rinks or a free swim at one of the listed public pools! you can purchase your ticket booklets at a variety of community centres. visit their website for more details. the second thing i wanted to share is that once again, the city of ottawa is hosting a variety of halloween events for families across the city, most of which are happening the last weekend in october (just before halloween!) here is a sample of some of those community events – find one in your area, dress the kiddos up and enjoy some affordable family fun that’s all treat and no trick! will you be attending a halloween event with the kids? rebecca 2 min read october 4, 2018 no reply saunders farm (and why you should take the kids!) around ottawa disclosure: i am a saunders farm family ambassador and receive compensation for my work with them. all opinions are my own please note – i don’t have a discount ticket code for saunders farm this year but follow their facebook page, i notice they post deals and info there! why we love saunders farm i love this time of year. fall is special. the colours on the leaves. the crispness in the air. the flannel and plaid scarves. fall boots (it’s a thing to be excited about, trust me!). pumpkin spice everything. and of course, halloween. the haunting season at saunders farm has begun, and i love that it’s part pumpkin patch, part play farm and part spooky village. so no matter your child’s age or interest, you’ll find something to do! a few highlights from our trip includes the corn maze (tyson’s corn maze to a million!) and to get there is a wagon ride. there are two wagon rides at saunders farm during the day. the first will get you to the corn maze. the second, is meant to give a little fright. my kids probably could have stayed all day at the jumping pillows. there are two and kids leave their boots and shoes behind to wear socks on it (you may want to bring an extra pair!) this was a favourite area and great for even my older kiddos. the pirate ship was a delight for my daughter, and she pretended it was like a scene from pirates of the caribbean. another favourite for my kids (remember, they are 9 and 11!) was witch’s mountain – this is a slide that was populated by kids of all ages (the slide isn’t too steep for little ones to enjoy) they kept going up and down and having fun! and while andy and i did go into the barn of terror (there were moments that freaked me out!) there’s no way my kids would have wanted to so they played at the very cool play park with grandma. there are many different places to eat around saunders farm and if you want something quick like a burger, hotdog or poutine it’s readily available. but if you aren’t looking for the greasy bites, there is soups, chili and macaroni and cheese to satisfy your taste buds. bring some extra money to splurge on a beavertail while there too! rebecca 2 min read october 26, 2017 no reply the weekend before halloween in ottawa: activities for kids around ottawa halloween is less than a week away and we have one weekend left before we take the kids out to trick or treat. that means we can fit in all kinds of halloween fun before the big day itself, and ottawa has plenty of activities and events happening. if you are looking for something other than a pumpkin patch or spooky wagon ride, here are some family friendly activities happening across the city. here are some unique halloween activities your family can enjoy in ottawa this weekend! via @bitofmomsense click to tweet halloween party at your local library many of the ottawa public library branches are having parties this saturday. check to see if your local branch is one of them. the activities vary from story times and escape rooms! scare for care haunted house on october 27, 28, 29 and 31, kids kingdom is hosting a scare for care haunted house event in support of cheo. the event is meant to give participants a fright, so it’s recommended for those over 9 years old (or those who can handle it!). admission is by donation and times are listed on the website. watson’s mill watson’s mill in manotick is hosting a family halloween party on october 28 from 1 pm until 4 pm. there will be games, crafts, scavenger hunt and more. wear those costumes! the log farm trick or treat on sunday, october 29 at 11 am, the log farm is welcoming families for a trick or treat party. wear your costumes and enjoy trick or treating at various farm locations! gymboree halloween for the younger kids tickets are required for the gymb-o-ween event at gymboree in ottawa! this is for kids aged 1-5 with crafts, slime stations, costume parade and dancing! there are times available on october 27, october 28 and october 31 but space is limited! yaki halloween at centrepointe* tickets are available for a musical halloween with yaki at centrepointe theatre! enjoy the singalong and dress in costume! whatever you decide to do this weekend, i hope you have a fun time! ____________________ *centrepointe is a blog advertiser. this list is not part of any advertising partnership, but i wanted to round up some fun ideas for this coming weekend in ottawa! rebecca 1 min read october 24, 2017 no reply non-candy halloween treats play i am not the person to say that kids shouldn’t have candy and treats on halloween. for me, that’s part of the fun. while we do talk a lot about moderation (and not making ourselves sick by eating too many sweets!), i don’t think healthy eating habits change just because of halloween. i love to indulge too! however, for children with allergies, options are more limited when they go door to door. that’s likely why the teal pumpkin project has been getting more and more attention each year. offering candy and non-food treats includes more children. also, there is only so much candy young kids (or people of any age need) so offering different, fun, non-candy options is a nice change. not only can you do this on halloween night, but for your halloween party treats too! for example, the city of ottawa trick or swim or skate tickets are a neat alternative! i also found amazing deals at michaels. i was on ctv ottawa morning live this morning to chat about this topic and offer a few ideas for parents who want to include more than the usual sweet treats on halloween night. you can watch my segement here. what do you like to give out on halloween night? rebecca 2 min read october 12, 2017 no reply around ottawa: visiting proulx farm pumpkin fest around ottawa lucky for us, each friday of the thanksgiving long weekend has been a pd day. and while there is no shortage of activities to do on pd days in ottawa, one tradition that seems have been stuck for the past many years is heading to proulx farm for some pumpkin fun with friends. included in our admission is access to the mazes, wagon ride (which is not spooky during the day), play structures and pumpkins from the pumpkin patch. the weather, when it cooperates (and it usually has), means the kids can spend the morning (or afternoon) outside exploring, running, laughing and yelling in good fun. if you are wanting to make a trip yourself before halloween this year, proulx is open on the weekends, but sometimes during the day as well. this isn’t every day, but when they are welcoming groups they also open it to the public. i called and there are some days coming up where you’ll be able to go on a non-weekend. it’s recommended you call ahead to confirm if the date you want to go is available. also, by going on the weekday there weren’t all of the activities set up like there are on the weekend. however, one thing i will say is that when we went on the pd day, we arrived right at opening, and by the time we left before noon, the place was packed. it was overwhelmingly so because of the bus groups. i wouldn’t have wanted to let the kids run free given the crowds and number of kids on the climbers, slides and hay bails. keep that in mind when planning your outing (try to avoid those large groups!) i’m glad we let the kids get out and enjoy the sunshine (and pick their pumpkins which will be featured in our halloween decorating). if you go, have fun! proulx farm is located in ottawa’s east end. rebecca 0 min read october 31, 2016 no reply happy halloween! play halloween, 2016 so much fun! tag me on social @bitofmomsense with pics of your costumes or share below what everyone was this year – i love seeing what is popular, original or new!! rebecca 1 min read october 30, 2016 no reply halloween tips for parents kids, play with halloween upon us, i wanted to share a few of my tips that i have learned over the years – i have always loved halloween, and after kids that love continued. but i have learned a few things over the years that make halloween go a little smoother for all of us. if you missed my facebook live where i shared them, you can watch it on youtube. a few are summarized below. happy halloween! halloween tips for parents: feed the kids healthy snacks when they get home from school – they likely have been eating a lot of junk in the classroom, and after trick-or-treating, they’ll be eating more! i also avoid juice/sugary drinks. if you have company coming over, consider feeding the kids supper first. sometimes, when we wait for guests to arrive, they are too busy playing and wanting to get their costumes on to focus on anything else! while little pumpkin holders are super cute, they get heavy very quickly. bring a bag to dump full containers into so you can keep on going! the first thing to get cold on my kids is their hands! bring gloves, even if they insist they will be fine. review the candy when it comes home and ditch anything you don’t want them to have. some stuff may have to be tossed for safety, but other treats can go back in your own bin to hand out! they’ll be happy with all the other stuff, and if it’s gone, they won’t eat it later! rebecca 1 min read october 28, 2016 no reply the nightmare before christmas – our first viewing entertainment i know, i know, it’s a cult classic, but guess what? i had never seen the nightmare before christmas. i was thirteen when it came out, so it should have completely appealed to my brooding teenage self. it was a disney movie, about two holidays that i loved. how did i never watch it? no idea. but we finally did. and loved it. it was a fun, spooky but sweet movie experience. it was short and the music was completely stand out. what is this and this is halloween are etched in my brain forever. i’m glad that netflix has it available, otherwise i likely would never have sat down to watch it. there are other halloween themed flicks that you and your family can watch together (we love hotel transylvania!) and as we head into halloween weekend, it is the perfect time to cuddle up and watch a movie. head over to find the best one for your family! so tell me – am i the only one who just joined in on the nightmare before christmas wagon? disclosure: i am part of the netflix stream team and receive perks as part of the program. all opinions are my own. older entries facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.