events resource center magazine contact us march 27, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: salesforce motivational coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise handmade business welcome to the small business trends handmade business column featuring handmade business expert donna maria coles johnson. this weekly column highlights topics of interest to entrepreneurs and business owners engaged in handmade crafts. here you will find business issues, legislation, marketing tips, the latest trends and other matters of interest to small business owners and managers in handmade and crafts businesses. christmas wreath ideas to make and sell interest in these handmade crafts may be at an all-time high and every year brings a new decorating trend. can you keep up with your customers? nov 21, 2019 46 shares 20 christmas ornaments to make and sell for a handmade holiday business here are some christmas ornaments ideas you can sell for the holidays. nov 12, 2019 52 shares wood burning ideas for products you can make and sell this older craft is making a comeback as the handmade trend continues to grow. sep 24, 2019 46 shares 25 profitable projects for your welding business put your portable welder to work with these project ideas. jan 22, 2019 227 shares 14 most profitable products for handmade woodworking businesses to build and sell put those woodwork skills to good use making products people want. dec 30, 2018 5.3k shares etsy study says small businesses selling on the platform contribute $4.7b to the us economy just how much are etsy sellers contributing to the us economy and themselves? here is a very thorough report with many 2018 etsy statistics. nov 25, 2018 160 shares top 15 places you can sell handmade products locally selling handmade crafts online is a great option, but selling offline can be profitable, too. here's a list of where to sell handmade items locally. oct 11, 2018 125 shares 10 awesome tips for starting an etsy business if you're building your brand on etsy, these tips on starting an etsy business will get your handmade products in front of more potential buyers. jun 27, 2018 233 shares etsy raises sellers fee to 5% – including shipping charge etsy raises sellers fees per transaction, but plans to use the extra money to improve the site for both sellers and buyers. here's what you need to know. jun 16, 2018 305 shares 10 ways to grow your small business on etsy we've reached out to an etsy expert to get advice on growing your small business on the handmade marketplace. get his 10 tips on how to be successful on etsy after the jump. mar 14, 2018 202 shares 10 steps to creating a business with amazon handmade handmade products makers have found a place to sell their wares at amazon and, if you want in on the action, here are 10 steps to creating a business with amazon handmade. mar 2, 2018 371 shares sponsored by amazon amazon handmade and prime now trying to promote small business with same day delivery crafters who sell via amazon handmade can now ship handmade products via prime now, extending their business' holiday season up until the last minute. dec 7, 2017 153 shares 1 2 3 … 5 next → subscribe follow @smallbiztrends rss linkedin pinterest itunes subscribe to our newsletter submit report this ad small business resources how to start a business with no money checklist view all report this ad small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit