start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search hanlon’s razor – how to stop assuming negative intentions share what you feel menu flaws of your braingrowth at workpersonal developmentstart your venture hanlon’s razor – how to stop assuming negative intentions share what you feel3 weeks ago12 min read 31shares sometimes we assume negative intentions for now reason. have you assumed bad intentions after an event that went wrong when the actual reason was stupidity or negligence or an error? i have. let me tell you my story. i will also explain how to avoid such negative intentions using hanlon’s razor. a group of us had started a business venture. this business model did not require our presence full time. we would catch up once in a week to measure progress, exchange ideas and discuss future plans. one of the partners rarely showed up on some of our initial calls. i had many assumptions: he skips them on purpose he does not align with the ideas the others have he isn’t interested in making the business successful many such thoughts ran wild in my head. do you know what the actual reason was? his calendar had an issue due to which he failed to receive notifications. i assumed bad intentions when a simple reason caused the misses. hanlon’s razor suggests you prevent such negative thoughts when there is a higher possibility of a simpler explanation. table of contents hide what is hanlon’s razor? why we assume bad intentions where can you apply hanlon’s razor – examples of assuming wrong intentions personal relationships work relationships friendship turmoils corona virus businesses making a mistake important pointers about the hanlon’s razor 1. the rule is not always true 2. the rule goes wrong sometimes 3. the rule isn’t asking you to be naive 4. consider the costs of assuming and not assuming malice cost of the wrong assumption being too high: cost of the wrong assumption is negligible: benefits of good assumptions 1. you build better relationships 2. allows more logical thoughts 3. prevents overthinking how to apply hanlon’s razor effectively 1. when there the cause seems dramatic, ask yourself is there a simpler cause. 2. check for repeated instances instead of only the first instance conclusion what is hanlon’s razor? before we get to the hanlons razor, the word “razor” can seem surprising. a philosophical razor is a principle that helps avoid or shave off any negative thoughts, actions or unlikely reasons for an event. the shave off part led to the term razor. there are many others such as – occam’s razor, hume’s razor, grice’s razor and so on. the actual definition of hanlon’s razor is “never attribute to malice that which can be adequately explained by stupidity.” in simpler words, the principle suggests avoiding assuming wrong intentions when stupidity, negligence, incompetence or errors could explain the cause. the chances of the event occurring due to wrong intentions are far lesser than you assume. the principle derives its roots from occams razor. the principle is named after robert j. hanlon who wrote related to the murphys law in the 1980s. though his book covered this topic, the principle has citations that go back to the 18th century. in the words on napolean, “never ascribe to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity.” i am not sure if he said those words for real or someone made them up. let’s keep aside the origins of this principle and talk about why this happens. why we assume bad intentions let us take an example of a coworker missing an email. here is a visual which explains how thoughts form in your head. you assume all kinds of possible negative reasons like: he ignored the email he did not reply on purpose he does give me the information to hinder my growth he is seeking revenge because of what i said in the last meeting he does not like me the more likely reasons: he missed the email the email went into spam he went on leave and forgot to put an out of office notice when you face a situation where things went wrong or against your liking, you can categorize the reasons as follows: simple errors negligence/forgetfulness incompetence/stupidity dramatic events bad intentions the reasons such as negligence, error or stupidity do not occur to you first. even if they do, you dismiss them as too obvious or boring. you tend to give more weightage to recent events or dramatic causes. the disturbing thoughts provide a reason for overthinking and run around in your head. where can you apply hanlon’s razor – examples of assuming wrong intentions personal relationships when the woman leaves a finished cup of coffee in the cup holder of the car, the man turns furious. when the man leaves used clothes on the bed, the woman turns enraged. “i have told this so many times before. do i need to repeat again?” they both crib. the simple reason is, the man forgets to keep the clothes on the hanger and the woman steps out of the car without thinking about the cup. both of these occurred due to forgetfulness. unfortunately, the natural tendency is to assume that your partner does not care about your words. a simpler explanation is he/she is forgetful than insensitive. work relationships many cases occur at work similar to the coworker failing to reply to an email example above. your boss might promote a different person, a co-worker might contradict your idea, an employee might show up late to work, a colleague might not invite you to a meeting and so on. the reasons turn out simpler than you assume: your manager promoted a different person because he has achieved results outside your knowledge a co-worker contradicted your idea because he believed it won’t work an employee showed up late because he missed his cab your colleague forgot to invite you to a meeting friendship turmoils a good friend of yours moves to a different city. you both had a habit of speaking often but all of a sudden the calls disappear. you try calling but hear no response. your mind starts assuming things: she is ignoring me on purpose she never considered me a friend in the first place she wants to keep distance because i danced with her boyfriend on her farewell party maybe the new city and her job have kept her busy to the point of exhaustion. she might have forgotten to call the first day and wants to wait for the weekend to talk to you in detail. similar assumptions occur when people forget to invite you to a party or another event. you assume the person did not invite you on purpose when usually the reason is that your name slipped off the list. corona virus the most recent example is the virus outbreak in china. the reason behind how the virus originated has many theories. one theory that stated that it was an experimental bio-weapon that went wrong was shared all over social media. though the other causes are more likely, the dramatic news got coverage. the media makes the most of tagging vivid and startling causes to events. when a plain vanilla reason explains the event, not enough eyeballs are garnered. when the cause can trigger a chain of gossip, the media such as newspapers and news channels make a profit. businesses making a mistake you encounter many such scenarios in your daily life where things go wrong. case 1: you visit a supermarket, pay the bill, reach home and find an item missing you assume: the supermarket cheats on purpose to maximize profits case 2: you go to a car wash and find one of your floor mats missing you assume: the store picks random mats and sells them in bulk case 3: you visit a casino, win some money and lose more than you won you assume: the casino is rigged to make you gain money first so that you lose more. in the first two cases, the more likely causes are human error where someone missed an item or misplaced the mat. the casino operates on mathematical odds. the chances favor the casino overall because that is its business model. if the casino had odds in the user’s favor, they would shut down within days. important pointers about the hanlon’s razor 1. the rule is not always true just because the event can be explained by a simpler cause does not mean that it is always the reason. the principle works on probabilities which say that a simpler explanation is more likely. 2. the rule goes wrong sometimes a few decades back, people did not believe in the existence of mafia. if you applied this principle then, you would consider yourself making a negative assumption. but mafia turned out real. likewise, many assumptions that started as conspiracies turned out true. 3. the rule isn’t asking you to be naive in some cases, bad intentions could very well be the reason. the hanlons razor isn’t asking you to be naive. rather it recommends finding other possible explanations first before fixating on bad intentions. you must use your best sense of judgment to decide which reasons explain the event. 4. consider the costs of assuming and not assuming malice when you find your mind assuming bad intentions consider both sides of the coin. ask yourself: what if i assume bad intentions and my assumption is wrong? what if i assume good intentions and the reason was malice? evaluate the cost of your assumption and proceed accordingly. cost of the wrong assumption being too high: for example, if you notice your company accounts showing repeated losses, you must validate the most likely causes first. but you cannot reject possible cases of employee fraud. the cost of the wrong assumption is too high to ignore. cost of the wrong assumption is negligible: if you take a previous example where you missed an item from the supermarket, your incorrect assumption has a low cost. if all you missed was a bar of soap, the cost isn’t much even if you presume good intent. when you visit the place the next time, you can make a better judgment. benefits of good assumptions not assuming malicious intent has more advantages than disadvantages. 1. you build better relationships many relationships deteriorate due to wrong assumptions. one person starts with an incorrect assumption, passes out a vibe and the other person responds. people assume some wrongdoing when actually no one is at fault. instead, if you presume good intent, you run into lesser confusion and conflicts. 2. allows more logical thoughts knowing hanlon’s razor prompts you to consider all possible causes before jumping to a conclusion. you can think with an open mind and apply rational reasons to the event instead of breaking your head with some highly unlikely cause. 3. prevents overthinking when you encounter an event you dislike, you tend to overthink about the possible causes. all the dramatic reasons compel you to go deeper and deeper into a spiral of negative thoughts. such overthinking not only damages relationships but also spoils your mood. even if you try to shoo the thought off your head, your mind bothers you again and again. by applying the principle, you feel relieved knowing that the reasons are possibly simpler. you can breathe a sigh of relief and stop snowballing all the negative reasons in your head. how to apply hanlon’s razor effectively 1. when there the cause seems dramatic, ask yourself is there a simpler cause. when you find yourself making bad assumptions about people without concrete proof, ask yourself: what are the chances of a simpler reason? is my assumption based on facts/data or my imagination? you do not have to do such an analysis for every little event. but whenever you face a thought which can sabotage relationships, check if the hanlon’s razor can find a simpler cause. 2. check for repeated instances instead of only the first instance your mind can induce negative thoughts right from the first mistake. when a supermarket misses one of the items you purchased, the cause is usually a human error. if it is your first experience, the odds suggest an error rather than malicious intent, even if you have never visited the store before. if the same occurs the next time you purchase anything from the same store, you validate your doubts. think for a moment. if they did it often, someone or the other would have called it out by now. consider excusing the first offense instead of going all guns blazing within your head. conclusion your mind never remains idle, even when you’re sleeping. nature has wired your dna to think all the time. as a result, your brain makes up ideas many a time. when things seem too obvious, your mind wants to spice things up just to add more food for thought. many have questioned the theory of hanlon’s razor. in some cases, it has gone wrong too. critics reject the hanlon’s razor because they believe it makes people naive. the principle does not eliminate bad intentions altogether. it just says that people are nicer than you think. often, the negativity is the demon inside your head than the actions of people. do not apply hanlon’s razor by ignoring evidence, facts, and data. sometimes what you consider as stupidity, incompetence or errors is the intentional wrongdoing of someone. use your best judgment on when to apply the principle and went to look someone in the eye and see right through their soul. will you always make the right assumptions by applying the hanlon’s razor? nope. you will goof up sooner or later assuming good intentions when the cause was malice. but overall, you will bring in more positivity and peace of mind in your life. my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 31shares maxim dsouza what i am not: billionaire philosopher conventional what i am: mediocrity hater continuously improving self-learner productivity/time management obsessed join the discussion cancel reply comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management further reading improve focuspersonal developmentprocrastinationproductivitytime management how to be productive while working from home 8 hours ago flaws of your braingrowth at workimprove focusovercome fearstart your venture shiny object syndrome – how to stop chasing different goals 3 days ago personal developmentstart your venture how to start a business with no money – 12 step process 7 days ago flaws of your brainovercome fearpersonal developmentproductivity how to stop overthinking and relax – 7 simple tips 1 week ago flaws of your braingrowth at workpersonal development the negative feedback instinct – how you find faults quickly 2 weeks ago growth at workovercome fearpersonal developmentprocrastinationproductivitystart your venture the 4 pillars of professional growth 3 weeks ago about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?