menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login category “happiness & fun” free online summit to cultivate mindfulness and compassion by lori deschene hi friends! as you may know, i’m always excited to share free events that can help us heal, find peace, and learn to meet each other with more patience, kindness, and compassion. and i’m particularly passionate about mindfulness. the more … i want to be rich in memories by aida sarsenova “my life isn’t perfect, but it does have perfect moments.” ~unknown practice was over, the hot florida sun was settling in behind the tall bleachers, casting golden rays onto the track. behind me was my dear school, engulfed in beautiful … when you’re unhappy and want things to change by pritam saikia “sometimes even to live is an act of courage.” ~seneca this is the first time i am admitting it: i was bullied in school. i was thirteen years old at the time, and it went on for the one year … the 3 most important questions to ask yourself every day by brendan baker “at the end of life, our questions are very simple: did i live fully? did i love well?” ~jack kornfield when i was seven years old, i almost died. my family and i were at central station in sydney, australia … if you think reaching your goal will make you happy… by james kane the path is the goal. the process is more important than the result. life is a journey, not a destination. there are three very common, some might say cheesy and clichéd sayings you may hear when it comes to taking … 12 habits to adopt to make this your best year yet by lori deschene many of us head into the new year with big goals and ambitions. we think about everything that seems to be lacking in our lives and imagine ourselves far happier and more fulfilled on the other side of massive change.… the 6-minute diary: more mindfulness, success, and happiness (book giveaway!) by lori deschene the winners of this giveaway are: stephen mcintosh leeane jeske wendy flora (winner of the happiness bundle) please send your mailing address and cover choice (grey, dusty rose, or sky blue) to me at email@tinybuddha.com. — we all know that … i spent years looking for happiness in the wrong places by jen picicci “never put the key to your happiness in someone else’s pocket.” ~unknown about ten years ago i made the mistake of re-reading my journal from high school. wow, was i ever a miserable, slightly unstable person. i dated the same … even in the hospital, he found joy in the now by mary ellen lucas “don’t let the sadness of your past and the fear of your future ruin the happiness of your present.” ~unknown back in the day when i was a stay-at-home mom, “mindfulness” wasn’t even a word in my vocabulary. the only … how changing my words changed my life for the better by will aylward “our words create our world.” ~rich litvin i remember when i was about seven years old, shouting spitefully at my mum, ‘’i wish you were dead, i hate you!” her jaw dropped in disbelief, and i knew my words had … how to live a life you love (even if others doubt you) by camilla hallstrom “not all those who wander are lost.” ~j.r.r. tolkien i will always remember those words. i had just decided to ditch my old life. instead of pursuing a cushy career as a lawyer, i wanted to create a business as … never forget that you have the power to choose by leslie ralph “if we are peaceful, if we are happy, we can smile, and everyone in our family, our entire society, will benefit from our peace.” ~thich nhat hanh dedicate today to the power of choice. your choice. you can’t choose everything … why i now complain less and appreciate more by reena althaf “it is not happy people who are thankful. it is thankful people who are happy.” ~unknown i used to be a complainer, a fault-finder, a grumbler. i would grumble a hundred times a day about mundane issues, be it the … 7 ways running helps me live my best life by will aylward “i don’t run to add days to my life, i run to add life to my days.” ~ronald rook growing up, i was always a bit on the tubby side, or, as my mum would say, “stocky.” old and grainy … how my gratitude journal has made life more fulfilling and fun by kristen chin “be kind. be thoughtful. be genuine. but most of all, be thankful.” ~unknown have you ever tried to keep a daily journal? how long did you last? i’ve tried to keep one many times in my life, and i have … why my grandfather was happy even when he was dying by heather moulder “it’s not the events of our lives that shape us, but our beliefs as to what those events mean.” ~tony robbins is there anyone in your past that inspired you to become the person you are today? for me, that … how i stopped being busy and why i’m now more fulfilled by kim mccormick “sometimes doing less is more than enough.” ~kris carr two years ago i made a radical lifestyle shift. prior to this change, i was constantly striving to do more, to achieve more, to be more. i was squeezing as much … create a little bit of bliss every day by holly hildreth “follow your bliss and let the magic of life happen.” ~janelle jalbert is there something you always wanted to do as a child, and for whatever reason didn’t do? is there something that you have wanted to do for years? … what happens when we compromise our core values by tim brownson “it’s not hard to make decisions when you know what your values are.” ~roy e. disney i got out of the car and could immediately tell that something was amiss. there were far too many glum-looking people milling around outside … what i believe and why my life is better because of it by will aylward “seeing is not believing; believing is seeing! you see things, not as they are, but as you are.” ~eric butterworth i didn’t always understand this, but i now know that my beliefs shape my experience of the world. as i … page 1 of 4512345...102030...»last » translate free download: buddha desktop wallpaper recent forum topics abandonment issues & experiencing love? breakup, cheating, bad fight, just looking for advice? heartbroken lost lonely _ how move on emotional learning journey what should i do? have i tried hard enough? not feeling motivated lately need some inspiration! maintaining self in relationships please guys, i really need your advice. break up and third party situation my girlfriend said she has a soulmate but it isn't me fun & inspiring don’t let social distance lead to emotional distance get more fun & inspiring images & videos. latest posts 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be if you think people-pleasing is being kind… stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing 3 approaches to the coronavirus (and which is smartest) disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top