welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog 5 course trailers our learners love published on: jun 16, 2017 by sara reich 5657 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post there are over a thousand courses on edx, and many of them have trailers to give you a taste of what the course is all about. but which of these videos really caught the attention of our learners? we looked at the number of views, likes and learner feedback to bring you the five course trailers that edx learners love the most: 5. the science of happiness uc... read more about 5 course trailers our learners love get started on the road to happiness! published on: mar 20, 2017 by sara reich 6642 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we’re celebrating international day of happiness! in honor of the occasion, we want to encourage you to do something that makes you happy today and every other day of the year. a great place to start is with learning something new. did you know that learning and education can have many positive effects on our happiness? mastering a new subject is a challenging, engaging, and meaningful... read more about get started on the road to happiness! 10 most popular edx courses in 2016 published on: dec 15, 2016 by jerry hamedi 44788 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post as the year comes to a close, we take a look back at our ten most popular courses of 2016, as selected by you, our learners. our list, based on total enrollments and learner ratings, showcases your favorite courses and what you’ve had to say about them: 10. the science of happiness – uc berkeleyx (starts january 3, self-paced) learner rating: 4.5/5 “this was an incredible experience.... read more about 10 most popular edx courses in 2016 happiness, language and superheroes. courses you’ll love from edx! published on: feb 12, 2016 by monil shah 5846 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post fall in love with learning this valentine’s day. looking for something special this valentine’s day? the gift of learning lasts a lifetime. at edx, our mission is to not only provide high-quality education, but to offer courses in a wide variety of subject areas and skills you are looking for. this valentine’s day, we encourage you to take a course in a subject area you love. our free excel courses are some of the most popular... read more about happiness, language and superheroes. courses you’ll love from edx! what do you want most out of life? published on: sep 17, 2015 by rachel lapal 7426 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post three edx courses to improve your life are you looking to be happier, think better or transform yourself and society? if yes, then you aren’t alone. for the last three years, academics, researchers and the sustainable development solutions network (sdsn), a global initiative for the united nations, have produced the world happiness report, a survey of the state of global happiness. in 2015, the report... read more about what do you want most out of life? lifehacker’s top moocs: fall 2015 published on: sep 08, 2015 by becky pineo 6302 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post you don’t have to be moving into the dorms and spending hundreds on textbooks to go back to school – lifehacker has hand-picked some of their favorite free online courses for this fall! check out some of the edx courses the folks at lifehacker u are buzzing about. click here to read the full post on lifehacker.com. “your education doesn’t have to stop once you leave... read more about lifehacker’s top moocs: fall 2015 9 introductory courses on edx: explore a new subject this fall published on: aug 28, 2015 by rebecca.sacks 7230 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post ready to dive into a new subject area, but not sure where to start? this fall on edx we are offering dozens of introductory level courses, perfect for novice who is brand new to a topic, or someone looking to brush up on the basics. check out some of our most popular intro level courses below, and enroll today. learn computer science explore social sciencesget politicalunderstand sciencediversify your... read more about 9 introductory courses on edx: explore a new subject this fall social connection in “the science of happiness” published on: oct 22, 2014 by michele palmer 4083 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this post originally ran on the greater good blog on october 21, 2014. the ggsc’s online course, “the science of happiness,” emphasizes the importance of social connection to happiness. but how socially connected are our students—and how does their connection relate to other aspects of their lives, like their age and relationship status? we have some interesting answers, thanks to data from the survey that... read more about social connection in “the science of happiness” search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close