skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search haptic magazine issue #1: our story dear streettogs, i am very proud to announce the launch of haptic magazine #1: our story [free pdf download] why haptic magazine? cindy had a creative idea: let’s reflect on where we’ve been with haptic, our mission statement, and our dreams. it’s a new year and it’s time for a new ‘haptic‘ look…let’s make a statement magazine to creatively express haptic! thus, the birth of haptic magazine #1: our story download free pdf: haptic magazine issue 1 – our story – winter 2019 by cindy nguyen eric kimdownload video slideshow of spreads: haptic magazine indesign template also as an additional bonus, download free indesign template – haptic magazine issue 1> we hope this template can empower photographers and visual artists to make their own publications and zines. learn more about indesign template > haptic tools edition this first issue shares the story of our haptic tools. our mission is to equip you with the perfect straps, bags, and cases to empower you to create in your everyday life. unifying fashion and function, each haptic tool is designed to complement your bold personal style. make art, cindy nguyen, haptic ceo explore the haptic shop > contents editor’s note: haptic tools edition: fashion unified with function mission statement: disrupting the photography industry through haptic design philosophy: the human element of touch and social impact who is haptic? the story of cindy and eric’s journey of creative collaboration henri collection: classic. street. style. eric kim collection: form at the intersection of function global entrepreneurship: haptic innovation from saigon to california to you video interviews: new creative experiments and products in the haptic exclusive shop disrupt art creation haptic is: cindy and eric independent family operated bold we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are driven by a spirit of playful experimentation, ‘kaizen’ iteration, and creative collaboration. each of our creations is intentional from design philosophy to production. tools featuring: eric kim case in phantom black eric kim wrist strap eric kim neck strap with ricoh gr ii just shoot it ricoh gr ii x eric kim neck strap when in doubt, click. shoot a scene 25% more than you think you should. take three steps closer. enjoy the process. touch haptic means ‘relating to the sense of touch and proprioception.’ haptic honors the human element of touch and the all-encompassing experience of aesthetic beauty. “i aspire to make beautiful haptic tools that move people to create art. i hope this cycle of creation uplifts the spirit of our humanity.”– cindy nguyen, ceo of haptic inspired / saigon – kyoto – los angeles we are inspired by the people and places we encounter around the world. saigon invigorates us to“chịu khó.” kyoto teaches us “wabi- sabi” aesthetics and philosophy. los angeles is our home and our heart. featuring: saigon satchel, ‘furoshiki’ wrapped in japanese cloth haptic mood we are made of the people and places we meet featuring: eric kim neck strap with the ricoh gr ii saigon satchel henri neck strap mark iii in phantom black cindy & eric featuring: eric kim neck strap with ricoh gr ii creative experimentation / artistic play / tools of empowerment: haptic labs eric kim: eric: my dream through haptic is to make the best tools to empower my fellow photographers and visual artists. there is too much fragmentation with photography straps, bags, and cases. i strive to design the most simple and sublime equipment that helps us focus on what matters: making art. haptic is my personal obsession to empower you. cindy nguyen: cindy: my childhood dream was to create a box company. as a kid, i eagerly awaited the mailman’s deliveries. i would hold a package in my hands in awe. what mysteries did it hold? how far did it journey? through haptic, i realize my dream by making handcrafted creative tools and shipping them around the world! each package holds a story, and i am honored to share it with you through your purchase. henri: classic – street – style henri: handcrafted in small batches artisanal leather perfected design wabi-sabi aesthetics henri. the classic, contemplative artist the henri collection is designed for the classic street photographer –ready for every photographic moment. from urban streets to tranquil cafes, the henri accompanies you on all your photography adventures. featuring: henri neck strap mark iii in mahogany brown featured: henri mark iii neck strap the newest henri mark iii released for 2019 is the culmination of years of ‘kaizen’ iteration. now available in the elusive phantom black and the classic mahogany brown. durable and rugged leather: handcut, handcrafted, and designed to age beautifully and develop patina over the years soft and supple leather neck pad unlike any other strap adjustable length with brass components no exposed metal: protect your camera from scratches and scuffs attention to detail: hand stitched, vibrant crimson red accent color on the back of adjustment cover “memento mori. photograph as if today was your last.” eric kim henri learn more about the henri collection: neck strap mark iii wrist strap wrist strap pro shoulder strap discover your ideal camera strap > eric kim: sublime function featuring: eric kim case in bronze and phantom black eric kim wrist strap with the ricoh gr ii ek / eric kim handcrafted in small batches artisanal leather minimalist design robust aesthetics the eric kim collection is your minimalist companion on the streets reminding you to just shoot it. form at the intersection of function featuring: eric kim neck strap eric kim portfolio bag eric kim wrist strap with the fujifilm xf10 saigon: global entrepreneurship – independently owned: california we are not anonymous. our products each have a story. unlike huge, anonymous factories, this is the entire operation: eric, cindy, our sisters annette and jennifer, lan, and uyen. we are transparent about our labor practices because we are proud and love each product we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are majority women led, family operated, and independent entrepreneurs. haptic design handcrafted in limited edition batches inspired by beauty and function featuring: behind the scenes of the handcrafted henri neck strap eric kim case in bronze looped around the eric kim portfolio bag crema brown phantom black mahogany brown midnight blue crimson red video interviews visit our shop: www.hapticindustries.com watch the complete haptic playlist > yes to playful experiments to dream, to wonder, to make, to see an eternal return to the creative everyday. direction, design, concept // cindy nguyen photography // eric kim january 2019 haptic press muse by kim $ 290 add to cart sale! travel notes: mobile edition $ 19 $ 10 add to cart sale! travel notes: photography assignments & inspiration manual $ 29 $ 19 add to cart camera straps $ 49 – $ 169 view products eric kim neck strap mark ii $ 119 read more sale! new henri neck strap mark iii $ 139 – $ 149 select options sale! my first photography book limited edition hardcover + free mobile bonus $ 10 – $ 29 select options eric kim wrist strap mark ii $ 79 add to cart suits by eric kim limited first edition hardcover photobook $ 140 add to cart sale! eric kim case $ 79 – $ 99 select options ricoh mafia artwear $ 29 select options sale! the digital nomad [flash sale] $ 77 $ 29 add to cart henri neck strap (mark iii) shoot fearless > haptic industries creative tools to empower you. haptic industries on amazon > eric kim newsletter free motivation: email address eric kim workshops conquer your fears and meet new peers: april 25-26: chicago conquer composition workshop september 19-20: boston discover your unique voice in photography workshop (new date) november 4-8: havana, cuba travel street photography workshop experience – register intent join ars: the anti-social social media for photographers what do people really think about your photos? arsbeta.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta