home comments policy subscribe posts by author: harry some tips for running online discussions by harry on march 13, 2020 as instruction moves online—largely to be taught be people who have no experience teaching online (like me) and mostly with very limited technical support—people are going to need to share experiences and tips, not just about the technologies they are using but about general principles and practices—they will even, i hope, share curricular materials. i plan a post early next week with some preliminary thoughts and to provide a space for people to share ideas, but for now the discussion project, a uw-madison project that trains instructors to manage in-class discussion better, has shared a 2-pager with some tips for managing on-line discussions. and, for those for whom this is new, maybe my acue post on how i use online discussion in my face-to-face classes will be useful too. some thoughts about transparency in college admissions by harry on february 25, 2020 i gave a keynote speech at the annual conference of the center for enrollment research policy and practice last month, and it occurred to me that some of you might find it interesting. the following is the text i talked from (with one joke that i extemporated added to the text because i remember it – there was several others that went down well, but they are lost to posterity). i should start by saying i’m not an expert on the admissions process or on enrollment management, although thanks to my association with the center and attending this conference a few times i know much more than a normal professor would. or should. i’m not an administrator.. i’m a college teacher and a philosopher, and those roles each give me different reasons for humility when addressing the people who take real responsibility for managing our institutions. so please don’t take what i am going to say as criticism or as telling you how to do your jobs. it’s neither. (i know when people say that you shouldn’t take what they are going to say as criticism that usually means they are going to criticize you but…. well, i’m not). what we try to do as philosophers is offer intellectual resources to people to help them see problems slightly differently, and thereby perhaps to find better solutions – not to tell them what the solutions are. and it’s a good thing our job isn’t telling people what the solutions are since i don’t know what they are. as you’ll see. i was asked to talk about transparency in admissions, and i’m going to do that, but i am also going to talk a little bit about transparency in other areas of our shared enterprise. [click to continue…] the truth about the badger state by harry on february 14, 2020 the badger state does, in fact, have a state animal. it is the badger.[1] (we also have a state bird, a state tree, a state flower, and many other state things – in fact, a former student of mine is responsible for us having a state pastry which he says, with a mixture of bemusement and regret, was the legislative achievement for which he received the most plaudits from his constituents). the badger is not a significant part of our local fauna. there’s one in the local zoo, called buckingham (when one buckingham dies, another takes its place, forever. why buckingham? i haven’t looked that one up, maybe there is some link with the palace). and through googling i learned to my surprise that there are some in the wild, though nobody’s ever seen them (unlike possums, raccoons, chipmunks, opposums (whatever they are) and bloody squirrels that my uk visitors think are cute, but are in fact, like the other buggers i’ve mentioned, bloody pests). it is natural, but wrong, to assume that the badger state is so-named after the badger. on the contrary, the badger got the honour of becoming our state animal because we were already the badger state (and nobody had the imagination to think it would be funnier to have a different animal, like the chipmunk, or the cockroach, as its state animal). it was the cornish miners who gave our state its nickname. when they came to the western part of the state to mine tin, or lead, or something (they named town which they used as the base for mining “mineral point”, and if you go to mineral point it is still full of people with names straight out of a daphne du maurier novel) were forced to live in holes dug into the hills which they recognized as being like badger setts. the nickname originates in the exploitation of workers, or the dignity of labour, depending on your preference. you can see below (if i’ve managed to load the images correctly) the wisconsin coat of arms (yes, we have a coat of arms, as well as a bird, an animal, a flower, etc) followed by the cornish coat of arms. this was a public service announcement for the benefit of the president of the united states of america. and, to be fair, nearly everyone who lives in wisconsin. [1] not, unfortunately, a cricket badger. that’s me. a way of reforming the house of lords by harry on january 19, 2020 rebecca long bailey is proposing an elected senate to replace the house of lords (one, presumably, without john bercow in it). i haven’t seen much detail so won’t comment (if someone can point me to published details, i’d be grateful). but it reminded me of something that erik olin wright and i talked about many years ago when the tories were carrying out moderate lords reform but didn’t seem to know what it would look like. we wrote up a short paper which we never published. from the fact that we never published it you should be able to infer that we didn’t feel strongly that this was the best possible option: but we did think that a proposal like this should be on the table.[1] link to pdf is here. the text is below the fold. [click to continue…] teaching a 10 year-old to read. by harry on january 5, 2020 my then-18 year old daughter was home with her friends when i opened my author-copies of family values. after they left she said “my friends are really impressed that you’ve written a book. but i’m not really. i mean, it’s just part of your job, isn’t it? it’s just what you’re supposed to do. i mean….it’s not like you taught a third grader to read, or something like that“. if you’ve read the book, or simply know its main theses, you’ll see many layers of irony in that exchange, and probably further layers of irony in the sense of pleasure and pride i got from it. but actually i did teach a kid to read, a 5th grader actually, though just one, when i was 18. [click to continue…] neil innes is dead. by harry on january 1, 2020 gaurniad obit here. my music collection contains a small number of perfect albums. perfect in the sense that every track is entirely welcome, and all are in the right order, yielding a brilliant effect. three are by richard thompson, one by joni mitchell, one by crosby stills and nash, and maybe one by the beatles. innes shares responsibility for two of them. the rutles archeology is much better than the original rutles album, full of gentle pastiche and including a couple of songs that have you straining to remember that it really isn’t the beatles. but the best is keynsham. i bought it at our price for 99p, remaindered and warped, 40 years ago and have listened to it maybe more than any album not by the beatles or dylan (i no longer have a record player, but have replaced it a couple of times since). it is the one bonzos album on which stanshall and innes combine perfectly—stanshall’s dark madness disciplined and tempered by innes’s kind optimism, allowing their shared sense of the absurd to shine through—not a collection of songs, but a single album, all the notes in the right order. 40 years on by harry on december 11, 2019 here’s a moving, brief, piece by paul cotterill about his dad, who flew over germany in wwii, loved eurovision, voted to stay in 1975, and died 40 years ago. it’s lovely. and it reminded me that the old people in my life (none as old as paul’s dad would have been, and none would be pleased to be designated old, but they’re older than me, and at this point that’s enough) all voted to stay, and i know that tomorrow they’ll all be voting to prevent a tory government, and some have been working tirelessly to that end for weeks…well, decades, come to think of it. a level playing field: the reform of private schools by harry on september 23, 2019 i wrote a pamphlet for the fabian society in 2000, arguing for reform of the private school system, based on the assumption that it was impossible to abolish them (i still think it unlikely, and am quite curious what will end up in the manifesto). if you feel like reading it, here it is. liberalism, neutrality and the gendered division of labor by harry on september 23, 2019 congratulations to gina, whose book liberalism, neutrality, and the gendered division of labor was published early in the summer (but i waited to say anything till fall, when i thought people would be more receptive).[1] here’s a very rough account of what the book’s about: women and men do unequal amounts of domestic and caring labor, and this inequality contributes to unequal outcomes between men and women in their careers. this is the ‘gendered division of labor’. but are the inequalities, or the processes generating them, unjust? and, if so, should the government act to change anything? here’s the problem: no laws enforce the gendered division of labor; and while women face some discrimination in the labor market, most of the gendered division of labor seems to be explained, immediately, by people’s choices which are, in turn, responsive to influential social norms. we – liberals who believe in democracy and freedom – presume that people should be free to act on their own judgments, and are uneasy about government intervention that would attempt to change the social norms. this commitment is captured by the popular idea that, for the most part, the government should stay out of people’s personal lives – and that appears to include things like how members of a household decide to divide up the time doing the dishes, looking after a child, or caring for an ailing parent. [click to continue…] making participation count. by harry on september 5, 2019 here’s my latest piece at acue, this time on class participation, what it is, how to make it happen, and why we probably shouldn’t grade it (if you read it it says that we shouldn’t grade it, but i doubt that’s true in all circumstances). here’s a taster: unfamiliar with the practice [of grading participation] i started asking faculty why they graded participation and what they counted. the standard response was that you have to grade it, “otherwise students won’t talk.” i was skeptical. whereas we can provide students with a reasonable understanding of what is required when writing an essay, taking a test, setting up an experiment, or making a presentation, participation is vaguer. but let’s assume that participation is, as colleagues tended to say, speaking in class—an action that is, in principle, readily observable and gradable. a number of problems arise. the first problem is obvious: it’s not just talking, but talking productively, that we care about. saying things that are interesting and useful to the conversation is a sign of good participation; saying things that are off-topic is a sign of bad participation. if we’re going to grade students’ talking, we should focus on quality, not quantity. students need to know this. but once they do, some feel pressure to impress you with correct or pat comments. in setting expectations, it’s hard to overstate that quality includes getting things wrong—for good reason. as a recent graduate wrote to me, “one thing i’m especially grateful for: i’m more willing to risk getting things wrong in discussion and writing than i used to be because you made it clear in class that making mistakes is part of engaging rigorously with philosophy and not something to fear. that seems obvious now, but it wasn’t always.” lord viv stanshall day by harry on september 4, 2019 its lord vivian stanshall day today, an international moving feast in which we celebrate the great man. it really should have been on the day that boris johnson became pm, but those of us in viv-land were too blinded by the surrealism of the tory electorate to respond. and, anyway, it doesn’t really matter because, in our hearts, every day is viv stanshall day. at least, that’s how its been seeming for a while now. here he is with the young ones (btw i endured (well, that was my dad’s word for it) a dreadful, viv-worthy, youth production of summer holiday in the summer, in which my niece managed to shine as an overactive surreal narrator), and.. well in an ad for ruddles which has to be seen to be believed. icebreakers by harry on september 4, 2019 its the first day of class for me. both my classes this semester are small—20 or fewer—and in such classes i always begin the first several classes with icebreakers so that they get used to talking in front of the group and learn each others names. a good icebreaker is brief (i allow 5-7 minutes for the whole round)—so it must be pretty easy to come up with a quick answer—but revealing (because i want them to get to know each other). i have a small collection of them. here’s a sample: please add more if you have them! name a novel you haven’t read that you think you should have read name a novel you have read that you think the rest of us should avoid reading what would your choice be for a final meal? name a song or singer or band that you are embarrassed that you like [1] if you had been raised in a different country which one would it have been? of the 50 states, which is the one you are least interested in visiting? if you had to rely on a past england cricket captain to get your country out of the mess it is in, which one would it be? [2] [1] surprising how often justin beiber and the jonas brothers turn up here, both of whom seem entirely un-embarrassing to me. someone usually mentions taylor swift, enabling me to reveal that i have seen her live. [2] this one has a right answer, but i don’t know what it is—brearley or jardine, i imagine. unless your country is albania, of course, in which case it’s obviously fry.[3] [click to continue…] the missing question by harry on august 30, 2019 yesterday’s all things considered story about brexit was a remarkably insidious piece of journalism. their man in albion visited the town with the highest brexit vote in britain (a ‘namesake’ of boston mass: the fact that they have the same name is, no doubt, a remarkable accident), managed to find a woman who voted for brexit, and asked her what she thought of the prime minister’s decision to restrict the sovereignty of the elected parliament (not the way he put it). she was enthused “if that’s what it takes…then so be it”: brexit has to be done and dusted because we’ve got to ‘slow and control” immigration. she freely admitted that brexit would be bad for the economy, and he asked if she cared that it will be bad for her business. it as already been bad for her business, which relies on eu migrant labor, but that is something she was, nobly, willing to put up with. but what she was willing to put up with in order to slow and control immigration is entirely uninteresting. the question he didn’t ask was how she justified wrecking other people’s businesses and the businesses that other people who are worse off than she is work for. next time, please present her with some remainers who are going to lose their livelihoods because of brexit, or the non-trivial number of remainers who will lose their lives because the health service is understaffed (or just badly staffed) and ask her to justify the costs she is trying to impose on them. (brilliantly, when i looked for the story to link to, i got an ad for an interview with the repulsive james dyson). a tie would have been good enough by harry on august 27, 2019 when leach was facing, with 2 to win, the tie was gone. if he was out, australia would win. if he scored 2, england would win. and if he scored 1, stokes would score the winning runs. but, from the point of view of the ashes, a tie was as good as a win: either way england has to win more of the subsequent 2 matches than australia: if australia win one, or both are drawn, australia keep the ashes. i tried to describe the scale of stokes’s feat to someone who had no knowledge of cricket. unfortunately, she proved to be completely ignorant of all sports, a remarkable accomplishment, but one that left me at a complete loss for analogies (i was going to reach for tennis, but even then—winning from 2 sets down and 5 games down in the third set doesn’t really capture it). lots of young people have said that this was the greatest innings ever, better even than jessop at the oval, or botham at headingley, and that this was a greater victory than headingley 1981. but they weren’t born at the time and have only seen highlights of 1981, so what do they know? even those of us who are old didn’t see jessop in 1903, but we did watch headingley ‘81 with the same stunned disbelief as we watched headingley ‘19. maybe, just maybe, jessop’s innings matched this one. but those of us who saw headingley ‘81 and headingley ‘19, albeit on telly, surely agree that the youngsters are right. what nobody has talked about is watson and bailey’s draw. if any of our readers witnessed sunday’s game, and watson and bailey, please let us know how they compare. if you google “watson and bailey” from my location, you get a hairstylist in california. on twitter, in response to a request from ben stokes, specsavers agreed to provide jack leach with a lifetime supply of eyeglasses. advice for new college students by harry on august 20, 2019 a couple of years ago the midwest conference of the junior state of america asked me to be their keynote speaker. i still have no idea at all why they invited me – it seemed and still seems rather unlikely. i stupidly agreed, and then agonized about what to talk about. the organizers suggested talking about how i got to where i am, but, although there are parts of how i got to where i am that are quite interesting, where i am is not interesting at all. then, mercifully, the thursday before the talk two of my students brought one of their friends to meet me in my office. (you can tell how exciting their lives must be!) and they told me to tell her my tips for how to get the most out of college. i was put on the spot and tried, desperately, to remember what my tips are. fortunately, i did remember. and then i thought, oh, actually, i could talk on saturday about how to get the most out of college. it’s something i know something about, and that would actually be useful to audience! since it is the time of year that some of our readers in the northern hemisphere are getting ready to welcome students to college (i am teaching a small first-year class, which i only do once every three years), and other readers are getting ready to send their kids off to college and, conceivably, one or two readers are getting ready to go off to college themselves, i thought i’d excerpt the part of the talk where i actually give the advice. about 2/3rds of the talk was about what the point of going to college is and i’ll skip most of that, but just say that the point that i gave them was to learn knowledge, skills, attitudes and dispositions that will enable them to make a better contribution to the good of all of us; and to enjoy that learning itself. i know going to college has other purposes, but these are the ones that get neglected by the college recruiters, and school counsellors, and movies, that shape their ambitions about college. here goes with the concrete advice: [click to continue…] ← older entries recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter