skip to main | skip to sidebar welcome welcome to our hatching eggs and chicks page. on this blog you will be able to follow our progress with our first incubator (and now our second incubator, as well as few broody birds). and hopefully see our healthy chicks. wednesday, june 09, 2010 all gone sadly we had to make the hard decision to rehome all of our birds, due to problems with a group of local teenagers (see my other blog). however i still have the incubator and may well start again, soon hopefully. posted by the_good_life at 12:19 pm no comments: friday, october 12, 2007 pictures i have had a request for more pictures, well as we don't have any babies at the moment and puictures of eggs are well slightly boring i will post lots of pictures of the rest of the gang (poultry, waterfowl and goats) on my other blog. and of course post our next babies here. posted by the_good_life at 12:09 pm 1 comment: but babies soon pecker has once again gome broody, bless here this time with about 18 eggs she has laid and stolen from the other bantams, none of the eggs are likely to be fertile so i have some other eggs for her, which we will try to slip in later today, when the kids get home. bothe incubators are fired up and on the go, one full of quail eggs the other with a mixture of welsummer, marens, cream legbars and buff orpingtons. they quail are all due to hatch around the 21st, fingers crossed as the last batch were wasted due to a dodgy thermometer (now fixed). the others all due around 2nd november. so fingers crossed. posted by the_good_life at 12:01 pm no comments: no babies at the moment well its seems like ages since we last had no babies, after a very good summer of natural hatchings, though nothing in the incubator. katherine and henry's babies have all gone off to new homes, as have the 4 indian runner ducklings. peckers chick pompom is now turning in to a cracking cockeral, not crowing yet, but when he does he is off. posted by the_good_life at 11:59 am no comments: tuesday, october 02, 2007 selby auction mart went to selby saturday and sold 5 muscovy babies, 4 indian runner babies and 1 cockeral. still have a pair of muscovy to sell. posted by the_good_life at 8:18 am 1 comment: new incubator well i tried it with some quail, only to discover at 15 days that a problem with the thermometer, so the eggs have basically been cooked. i have transferred them to the old one, so fingers crossed. and ordered a new thermometer for the incubator. new eggs due to arrive thursday, so we will see. posted by the_good_life at 8:15 am no comments: friday, september 14, 2007 the new incubator is here okay so its arrived now, got it set up and working, happy the temperature control is good, humiditiy seems constant, so now i'm ready to go, just need some eggs. i have loads of fertile quail eggs, bot don't really want more quail, have fertile duck eggs, but again don't really want more ducks. so what shall i do? has anybody got any eggs for sale or to swap? thanks in adavnce posted by the_good_life at 6:05 pm no comments: wednesday, september 12, 2007 eggs so what shall i hatch first. i could hatch some quail, quick easy and we have a trio so have plenty of eggs. don't really want more quail. i could hatch ducks, love ducks, but already have 12 babies running around. bantams, had loads of attempts but not much success. emm, decisions.. posted by the_good_life at 11:04 pm no comments: our new incubator the incubator we are getting ia a brinsea octagon 10. the info below is from th brinsea website. octagon 10 - more information / technical notes -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- small, reliable, easy to use - careful design and the use of modern materials and manufacturing techniques has enabled this tiny high quality incubator to be available at a very reasonable price. the combination of 'omnitherm™' heating, advanced temperature control and high quality construction results in a reliable and extremely easy to use incubator. the omnitherm principle ensures that the eggs are gently warmed by the printed element which encircles the egg chamber and results in stable, even temperature throughout the enclosure without the need for a fan. different egg sizes, including goose eggs, can be accommodated by adjusting the width of the egg channel with the dividers provided. the eggs are accessed by drawing out the egg tray from one end. the smaller the incubator, the harder it is to keep the temperature steady. brinsea's proven omnitherm™ heating technology is the solution, providing all round heating and visibility at the same time. egg turning is achieved, as with all models in the octagon range, by rotating the whole cabinet. this feature means that manual turning is easy and does not involve opening the enclosure or touching the eggs. automatic turning is an option with the separate autoturn cradle which turns the incubator once per hour. the external turning system keeps all moving parts outside the incubator away from moisture and dust leaving the enclosure easier to clean. the incubator easily lifts clear of the cradle allowing it to stand level for hatching. the advanced, proportional electronic temperature control is similar to that used across the brinsea range and is the result of many years of refinement. the temperature is set on a twenty turn adjuster using a small screwdriver from outside the incubator. an indicator light displays the status of the temperature control. humidity is provided by two water trays accessible by partially withdrawing the egg tray. a high quality incubation thermometer, individually calibrated on the glass for accuracy, is provided with each incubator. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- egg capacity (approx.) quail 24 pheasant 12 hen 10 duck 8 goose 3 physical data dimensions incubator only 13.50" x 6" x 6" high 340 x 150 x150 mm high with cradle 16" x 6.25 x 9" high 405 x 165 x 230 mm weight incubator 2.4 lb (1.1 kg) autoturn cradle 2.0 lb (0.9 kg) power consumption: (maximum) 25 watts power consumption: (typical) 12 watts electricity supply 115v 60hz or 230v 50hz as ordered posted by the_good_life at 10:48 pm 1 comment: new incubator i've just myself a new incubator on ebay, paid a liitle more than i wanted to but hey, hopefully it will be what i want. can't wait now for it to arrive. and then what to hatch????? posted by the_good_life at 8:53 pm no comments: tiny egg don't know if its the weather or what but we have had a few odd eggs lately, two weeks ago one of the ducks laid an egg the size and shape of a ping pong ball, and the two days ago pecker who lays a normal bantam size egg everyday, laid the egg above, not much bigger than a penny, shown below with two of her other eggs for size comparisson. very odd. posted by the_good_life at 10:56 am no comments: new birds well after months of searching and umming and arring, we are finally getting some new birds, when i say birds i mean bantams to join our twoo remaining silkies. posted by the_good_life at 10:55 am no comments: babies everywhere. now that i have lost my shed, or rather i'm banned from the shed due to a rather grumpy mummy duck, i am stuck in the garden so here some photos os the muscovies enjoying the sun. posted by the_good_life at 10:52 am no comments: muscovy babies taking a swim here a couple of films showing the babies doing what they love best swimming on a sunny day. and another posted by the_good_life at 10:50 am no comments: tuesday, september 11, 2007 new forum for goat owners new forum just started for goat owners in the uk, check it out here http://ukgoatowners.myfreeforum.org/ pass it on to everyone you know who loves goats. posted by the_good_life at 6:03 pm no comments: monday, september 10, 2007 cute duckling pictures posted by the_good_life at 10:41 am no comments: sad news sad news, we have lost one of the new ducklings managed to get in to the main enclosure with the big ducks, and it would appear that the male muscovy decided that he would make a nice breakfast, luckily the older children were all at school so didn't see it. i have now managed to catch mother duck and babies and they are now safely in the shed. posted by the_good_life at 10:26 am no comments: muscovy duckling goes hunting one of our ducklings at a week old trying to catch flies. posted by the_good_life at 9:09 am no comments: older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) what shall i hatch? the incubator our first incubator do you like the funky new chick cursor? blog archive ▼ 2010 (1) ▼ june (1) all gone ► 2007 (33) ► october (5) ► september (15) ► august (13) ► 2006 (46) ► november (26) ► october (17) ► september (3) contributors caroline the_good_life some of my best links good life allotment blog, my other blog. uk ducks, geese & poultry group subscribe to ukducksgeesepoultrygroup powered by pets.groups.yahoo.com copyright all pictures and text used on this blog are copyright to me, please do not use them without my permission.