haunting photographs capture empty spaces around the country amid shelter-in-place orders slideshow haunting photographs capture empty spaces around the country amid shelter-in-place orders yesterday 12:25pm • see more: coronavirus coronavirusslideshowvol 56 issue 12 as the nation grinds to a standstill amidst the covid-19 outbreaks, even its most trafficked areas stand abandoned in a testament to the changing face of american life. here the onion’s photojournalism bureau captures the haunting spaces left empty around the country after recent shelter-in-place orders. advertisement formerly an iconic space playing host to throngs of new yorkers, this once-bustling hub has now been rendered nearly unrecognizable, transforming instead into a poignant symbol of how the city has been reshaped by the pandemic. advertisement mere weeks ago, one could see community, happiness, and connection fostered here. it now stands virtually abandoned. advertisement schools, bars, and restaurants have been closed to halt the virus’s spread. but stark images such as this beg us to ask: what has been lost? advertisement it is eerie, yet beautiful to reflect on the joy and warmth once cultivated by this deserted seattle space before local authorities took precautionary measures to tamp down on the virus’s spread. advertisement an evocative photograph of the absence left in the wake of indiana’s statewide lockdown. advertisement only silence remains in this classic detroit hotspot. where once one could hear the din of happy residents going about their daily life. advertisement “it was unsettling but strangely tranquil photographing these places i’ve seen so many times, now completely devoid of human life—i’ve never seen anything like it,” the onion senior photojournalist daniel alfond noted in describing the assignment. advertisement one resident defies a local shelter-in-place order to visit this once-populated site. advertisement humanity looks forward to the day when they will be able to return here, carefree and ready to embrace each other again. but will it ever be the same? advertisement more from the onion historians politely remind nation to check what's happened in past before making any big decisions how the 1% are responding to coronavirus department of interior announces birds will continue going about regular bird activities during pandemic thousands of formerly endangered white rhinos flood city streets mere days after humans quarantined indoors