home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library christmas holidays latest articles london travel prevnext have you visited the winter wonderland yet? leyla preston fri 15th dec 2017 2shares share tweet pin when i was a budding lawyer in my twenties with no kids and lots of spare time, my husband and i decided to sample the first ever winter wonderland hosted at hyde park in london, back in 2007. we rounded up some of our colleagues and headed to the wonderland on a cold evening after work, to enjoy the new bavarian bars, german sausage hotdogs and a few of the christmas stalls that were spread out sparsely throughout the park. fast forward a decade and winter wonderland has transformed into a bustling winter extravaganza, chock full of ice skating, roller coaster rides, family shows, street food stalls, festive bars and even live music. it was free to visit the winter wonderland in 2007, and it is still gratis to enter now. however, this year we are going again with our two boys, and we have set our sights on the family-specific activities and amenities that winter wonderland has got to offer. have you been to winter wonderland yet? if not, here are some reasons why you should: table of contents winter wonderland is free to visit winter wonderland captures the magic of christmas there is something to do for everyone more information on how to get to the winter wonderland and what to expect winter wonderland is free to visit even if all you end up doing is walking around the park, then you would have at least enjoyed a lovely free visit to london and the festive atmosphere of a buzzing christmas market – the lights are so pretty! however, if you have allocated some sort of budget (as it can get dear), there are some shows you would need to pre-book on winter wonderland’s website, to experience the wonderland in full glory. these are the following: (prices are for one family ticket unless otherwise stated) ice skating (£42) the sooty christmas show (£20) cirque berserk (£36) zippos christmas circus (£36) giant wheel (£24) the magical ice kingdom (£32) bar ice (one standard ticket costs £16 each) cinderella on ice (£63.80) bar hütte (two adults costs £36, and two children costs £18) “i think taking time and allotting budget for the winter wonderland is all about making good memories for christmas. i would take any opportunity i have to show my daughter the magic of christmas. as i always say, it is important for me to have my daughter experience the kind of happiness i felt when i was young.” http://myparentingjourney.com/ “we love taking our little girl to winter wonderland; it is so magical, and proper gets us all into the christmas spirit. it can get expensive so make a budget before you go and maybe take your snacks!” www.arepops.com winter wonderland captures the magic of christmas if there ever was a way to feel truly festive over the christmas period, it is at winter wonderland. everywhere you go, you’ll find christmas markets offering a beautiful array of christmas jewellery, accessories, clothing, handmade crafts, decorations and so much more. you even get to see santa! and, if you’re feeling a little chilly, head over to one of the marquees for a warm cup of hot chocolate with marshmallows for the kiddies (of all ages) or a cosy mulled wine for the adults. “the look of wonder and excitement on their faces when they get there is wonderful and something you will always remember. (even if they go a bit feral when they see lots of things they desperately want!)” http://www.yorkshirewonders.co.uk“hubby and i have been every year since we have been together and last year ben joined us. different atmosphere with a child but still amazingly magical, especially when your trip involved seeing santa for the first time ” www.mrsmummyharris.co.uk there is something to do for everyone with over 100 rides and attractions, there is something for kids of all ages. either enjoy ice skating around the uk’s largest open-air ice rink, or visit the magical ice kingdom for a deep-sea adventure. alternatively, perhaps the circus show would be more your cup of mulled wine? alternatively, you can just check out the stunning views of london in the giant observation wheel. if you get there early you can try them all! “we took our boys aged 7-9 last a christmas to hyde park winter wonderland. it was all a surprise for them! on the train up i had made them activity bags all connected to the weekend to give them clues along our journey! they loved it! insert warning to book seats as it was dangerously busy on the trains. on our return we could not risk travelling on our scheduled train so had to upgrade as people were sitting on all floors and toilets – a painful mistake to the bank balance! i am so glad i did my homework and booked in advance the essentials things we knew they would love and wouldn’t involve queuing! the lights, atmosphere, and it is all so professionally run helps the magic was perfect for this age. the adult groups that were heading for the bars were arriving when we were heading back to the hotel after a fantastic day and evening 😆 it truly is a magical experience “ https://spinninplates.com more information on how to get to the winter wonderland and what to expect winter wonderland is in the heart of london’s hyde park and covers 350 acres. weekends can get very busy so either arrive early or during the week to experience winter wonderland at a more relaxed pace. the park is open until 1st january 2018, from 10 am until 10 pm, except for christmas day. if you’re coming from afar be sure to get your london pass, which will save you some money on the transport as well. you can use the money you saved on all those christmassy delights at winter wonderland! 🙂 if you have visited winter wonderland before, please share your experiences and tips with us below. *all images are taken by preston perfect photography unless otherwise stated and feature winter wonderland in 2015* *prices above are correct as at december 2017* *collaborative feature post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:christmasfestiveholidayshyde parklondonwinter wonderland related posts looking after your money after christmas 5 reasons why you should holiday in sard... quick and simple fashion tips for busy m... how to help reduce poverty and change pe... how to rv in the winter netflights puzzle pack – a handy compani... tips for travelling with children ho, ho, ho! jolly christmas pancake idea... superfood christmas tree salad – the big... morrisons online delivery service arrive... top 10 best educational christmas toys a... 5 minute interview with charlotte tomlin... six simple ways to decorate your home fo... ravensburger big ben silhouette puzzle r... half term fun at ora’s cookery event does your personality affect the way you... top five tips for spreading the cost of ... royal lancaster london hotel review go camping with the family this summer w... 21 travel hacks you need to know this su... the ultimate parenting gift guide – give... how do our eating habits differ by regio... how to save money on gifts this christma... how you can use matched betting to save ... sharm el-sheikh – a top class thomson ho... fun things to do with the kids over wint... 41 weeks pregnant – finally my bab... christmas spiced apple and walnut chutne... 16 weeks old – i need to get some ... press release – launch of motherhood dia... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 2shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok