style design food travel relationships motherhood shop menu style design food travel relationships motherhood shop design have a delicious weekend. by joanna goddard what are you up to this weekend? we’re making pizzas at home and deciding on a funny movie to watch. (maybe so i married an axe-murderer?) hope you have a good one — stay safe! — and here are a few fun links from around the web… a sweater for feeling dressed up but still comfortable. the cloud appreciation society. “of course everybody aspires for a cloudless day, but not us cloudwatchers.” (new york times) meghan markle’s best fashion moments, just for fun. not the worst idea, haha. you can play codenames online! and netflix party lets you watch shows and movies with friends. samin nosrat released a new podcast today about cooking during a pandemic. some people. (worth reading.) an ode to funny mugs. how to help get masks to healthcare workers. when will social distancing end? four possible timelines. (the atlantic) dame is offering 10% off your first order with code cupofjo, good through april 30th. (we love their sexy things!) plus, three reader comments: says noelle on burning food questions: “one of the neighbor kids had a birthday yesterday, and all of his aunts, uncles, cousins and friends who live in the area came with cars decorated, blaring music, and holding big posters to wish him happy birthday – they did a parade driving around the cul de sac for him! it was so sweet, it made most of the neighbors cry. such a bright spot in the day!” says ashley on how are you today: “at church online this weekend, our sermon was about turning ‘what ifs’ into ‘even ifs.’ even if i’m stuck at home, i have a home! even if i can’t see my loved ones, i know they’re there. i don’t know what your what ifs are, but i hope they can become even ifs.” says joanna on how are you today: “i am in my mid-thirties and live alone. (i’m not allowed to have pets in my rental — oh, what i would do to have even the grumpiest of cats as my roommate!) i, too, feel content with my life and my choice to be single and child-free, as i derive a great deal of purpose from my work and social relationships. since both of those things have slowed down in the past few weeks, i have felt more lonely vs. alone than i have in years. i find exercising regularly, reading, and keeping in phone contact (facetime, ideally) with friends (and, i’m some cases, their adorable children!) reminds me that not having a partner or children does not mean i don’t have love in my life, or love to give. i wrote out a few cards and mailed them out last week: one to my father and stepmother, who live in a different state, one to a friend who just had a baby, one to a friend who is holed up in a tiny studio apartment in nyc, and one to my grandma who is frightened and alone in her senior community. it took next to no time to write and mail out the cards, and reminded me how fortunate i am to have these wonderful people, who experience the same range of emotions i do regardless of their life circumstances, in my life. remember that you are loved by many, and you always have this wonderful coj community that we are fortunate enough to be a part of!” (photo by food52.) note: if you buy something through our links, we may earn an affiliate commission, at no cost to you. we recommend only products we genuinely like. thank you so much. march 27, 2020 3:07pm comments 5 you may also like… design have a lovely weekend. september 27, 2019 66 design four fun things october 9, 2019 208 design have a lovely weekend. december 13, 2019 50 comments 5 post a comment dakota says... how to help northern california – reusable/easy to clean face masks – made local: https://www.gofundme.com/f/face-shields-for-northern-california march 27, 2020 4:36pm / reply michelle says... what a great poem for this particular time in history some people are unfit to be president.>>>>> yes to this. i don’t even care if he’s doing the best he can under the circumstances. i hope he’s gone in november! some people can’t work remotely.>>>> me. but i’m lucky i’m still working. some people can’t afford their rent next month.>>>>> my apartment is deferring rent until the end of may. but you will still owe the months you don’t pay. some people can’t convince their elderly parents to take this seriously.>>> i work with a 30 y.o who doesn’t practice sheltering in place. her response to covid-19 is always “whatever”. when this over i want to retire. some people are logging off to stay grounded.>>>>>>> i have reached the conclusion that it would just be better for my mental health. march 27, 2020 4:08pm / reply katie says... that atlantic article… woof! the possibility of having 4-12 more months of social distancing just gave me some deep anxiety. i miss my friends! i want to have my mom visit when my baby is born in 5 months!!! march 27, 2020 4:00pm / reply kim says... thank you so much for setting such a wonderful tone for us right now. i’m a front line provider and this space is such a welcome reprieve at the end of a 14 hour shift. since there seems to be no delineation between weekdays and weekends, and since i look forward to your posts so much, may i kindly request an occasional weekend post? or repost? i have no idea how much time or effort goes into writing a post (i’m sure it’s much more than meets the eye) and this might be a tall order. as my mom taught me, i can’t get what i don’t ask for! march 27, 2020 3:57pm / reply molly says... i’ve been dealing with some tough anxiety this week (aren’t we all?!) and looking at those cloud photos was so calming. i need to remember that for next time i’m feeling really anxious – just go outside and look at the clouds. march 27, 2020 3:53pm / reply cancel reply comment name email website notify me of follow-up comments by email. about / contact joanna goddard brighten up your inbox let’s hang out contact me design most popular my sister’s home makeover 8 awesome podcasts john derian lives in a sea captain’s house behind the scenes: making a magazine cover what’s the most beautiful thing you’ve ever read? the #1 item you need for house guests our brooklyn family apartment 9 great instagram accounts 14 genius tips for living in a small space this cozy minnesota home will make you want a candelabra load more design favorite books design house tours design weekend link lists disclosure in order to grow our small business, cup of jo earns revenue in a few different ways. we publish several sponsored posts each month, which are always labeled at the top. we also sometimes earn an affiliate commission on the sales of products we link to. we feature only items we genuinely love and want to share, and this is an arrangement between the retailer and cup of jo (readers never pay more for products). these are the ways we support cup of jo, and allow us to run the site and engage with this community we truly love. thank you for reading! you might also like style a week of outfits: dana chehab food trader joe’s dinner hack design 2019 gift guide for husbands travel how to find that great vacation restaurant, and other burning questions relationships 10 great reader comments on breakups motherhood 21 completely subjective rules for raising teenage girls about a cup of jo welcome! a cup of jo is a daily lifestyle site for women. we cover everything from fashion to culture to parenthood, and we strive to be authentic. as olive kitteridge said, "there's no such thing as a simple life." thank you for reading. read more style food design travel relationships motherhood about contact faq let's hang out