editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. editors' blog / analysis & opinion latest 36 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 37 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 40 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime have you gotten the cdc’s trump campaign mailer? by josh marshall | march 26, 2020 3:23 p.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. welcome to the cult of personality. kate riga reported on this back on monday after a report from tpm reader tl. the cdc and white house have sent out a mailer trumpeting “president trump’s coronavirus guidelines for america”. the information on the back is standard social distancing recommendations the federal government has been pushing for the last week or so. but making these “president trump’s coronavirus guidelines for america” has the obvious intent and effect of trumpeting the president’s heroic leadership and also needlessly politicizing the message for americans who don’t like the president. this is something you expect out of any run of the mill authoritarian state with a cult of personality strong man. since monday we’ve heard from a number of other readers in various different parts of the country who’ve gotten it as well. has it come to your mailbox yet? let us know. key coronavirus crisis links josh marshall’s twitter list of trusted experts (epidemiologists, researchers, clinicians, journalists, government agencies) providing reliable real-time information on the covid-19 crisis. johns hopkins global covid-19 survey (most up to date numbers globally and for countries around the world). covid-19 tracking project (updated data on testing and infections in the u.s.). worldometers.info (extensive source of information and data visualizations on covid-19 crisis — discussion of data here). josh marshall (@joshtpm) is editor and publisher of tpm. have a tip? send it here! more in edblog 4 hours ago where things stand: will we have a grandstander? 5 hours ago national leaders need to take more personal precautions 18 hours ago obscene advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy