home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? creating author websites by mary jaksch it happened to a gifted writer. in fact, donna tartt is so talented, she got the pulitzer prize for her latest novel. and yet she made a huge mistake online. i’m writing this to make sure you don’t make the same mistake. here’s what happened… just before getting on a plane from bangkok to auckland, i hurriedly downloaded a handful of suspense novels at random onto my kindle. during the flight, i kicked back and started to read one of books called the goldfinch. i didn’t expect much. but by the second paragraph, i sat bolt upright. ‘wow!’ i thought, ‘this woman can write!’ later, i told a friend that i’d found an electrifying author. ‘who’s the writer?’ she asked. ‘it’s a woman called donna tartt. wait—i’ll google her name.’ it was only then that i saw that donna had received the pulitzer prize for the goldfinch! i’m not surprised. it’s one of the most fascinating novels i’ve read in the last ten years. but even though she’s talented, donna lacks internet smarts. you see, i like going to authors’ websites to read about what they’re doing. so i searched google for her author platform. nothing there… next, i searched for her name domain, donnatartt.com. and i found it. but—it didn’t belong to her. someone else had bought her name domain and is now auctioning it off. the price is growing by about a thousand dollars a week. donna tartt made the mistake of not securing her own name domain, her online identity! i was so concerned, i quickly grabbed one of her other name domains, donnatartt.net. i’m going to give it to her. for free. i don’t want anyone else to grab this name domain and maybe put some vile content onto it. and, because the site carries donna’s name, people will think she endorses the website content. but unfortunately, the main domain she would want to own, donnatartt.com, is already gone. just imagine, if that happened to you… have you secured your own name domain yet? you may not expect to get the pulitzer prize, but there’s no knowing where your writer’s journey will take you. so many of our a-list blogging masterclass students have ended up as authorities in their field! suffice it to say, if you dream of online success, you must grab your own name domain early on so that nobody else can get their hands on it. it’s not expensive to buy a domain—if you’re not a celebrity, that is. it only costs about $12 per year. i bet donna now wishes she had bought her name domain, donnatartt.com, years ago. you can see from donna’s example that owning your name domain is crucial. it’s like buying a plot of land (but at a fraction of the price…). nobody else can build upon it; you are the only one who is free to develop it. let me give you a brief refresher on domain names and hosting. quick 101 on domains and hosting when you buy a domain from a reputable company like namecheap, you have acquired your own internet address and nobody else can use—or abuse—it. but without hosting, there will be nothing to see at this web address. in order to build an author platform at this url, you need hosting. web hosts are companies that have servers (huge computers) that store all the files and data for your blog or website. when someone decides to visit your blog, their computer will “talk” to the hosting server, which then “serves up” the website to the visitor’s web browser. in other words, if the url of your website is its address, the hosting server is the house which is actually located at that address. the smartest way to get your name domain the most cost-effective way to get a domain is to grab it for free when you purchase hosting. there are some hosting companies who give you a free domain in return for hosting. just make sure you use a reputable hosting company like bluehost. they offer hosting for only $3.95 a month. but be careful… there are some bad, bad hosting companies out there. a few students of mine bought hosting at a company that had this slogan: “with … host as your hosting company, you can rest assured that your website is in good hands.” ‘in good hands?’ yeah, right! their server had near-daily outages, and their support service was abysmal. i had to fight for my students to get a refund. finally, i was able to get them moved across to a secure hosting company. but let’s leave aside any bad experiences. if you get your domain for free from a good hosting company like bluehost, you can start to develop your author platform, even if it only has a homepage to start with. (if you want to learn how to create a website or blog with minimal time and effort, check out my kickstart your blog course.) why having an author platform is crucial for your future back to the story of donna tartt… if she had secured her name domain early in her career, nobody else could have taken her online identity. now, whoever ends up with her name domain can write whatever they like in her name—even if it’s objectionable. unfortunately, many writers don’t understand the bitter consequence of not grabbing their name domain early on. but what should you do with it, once you have it? i would say: create your author platform. you see, when i find an interesting author, the first thing i do is go to their website. because i want to know who they are, what else they’ve written, and what they’re working on at the moment. and i’m not the only one to look for author platforms. whether you’re a non-fiction or fiction writer, you need an author platform. get your name domain now. don’t wait until it’s too late. and once you own your name domain, it’s time to create an author platform. (coming soon: more about how to create an attractive author platform.) questions? thoughts? please share in the comments. tweet162 pin share43 205 shares related posts creating author websites: the definitive guide by mary jaksch how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book by kimberley grabas about the author mary jaksch mary jaksch is best known for her exceptional training for writers at writetodone.com and for her cutting-edge book, youthful aging secrets. in her “spare” time, mary is also the brains behind goodlifezen.com, a zen master, a mother, and a 5th degree black belt. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >