style design food travel relationships motherhood shop menu style design food travel relationships motherhood shop design have a lovely weekend. by joanna goddard what are you up to this weekend? we are going out for vietnamese food, and the boys and i have gotten into playing sushi go, so i foresee lots of that, too! hope you have a great weekend, and here are a few fun links from around the web… love this everyday sweater. 63 years between kisses. (nytimes) translation of a seemingly pleasant conversation between two of my aunts at christmas, haha. every movie of the 2010s ranked. for the first time, miss america, miss universe, miss teen usa and miss usa are all black women! whoa, these cookies. wearing these boots non-stop this season. is this the best gift for kids? a map of all the languages spoken in new york city. this pasta uses two whole bottles of wine. nine things interior designers still have from their first apartments. plus, a reader comment from libby on a snowy proposal: i knew that my boyfriend had a ring and was waiting for the perfect moment. i also knew that too much pressure could sometimes paralyze him. one night, while we were making dinner, i was gently ribbing him about not having done it even though we’d just had an incredible weekend getaway. he kept saying, ‘i know! i know! i just got nervous.’ as we were walking to the living room with our plates of food (to eat while we watched reruns of the office, as is our way), i said, ‘honestly, i don’t need anything special. i am not the kind of person who needs a fancy show.’ he said, ‘so, you’re telling me that i could just pull out a ring right here. right now and you’d be fine with that.’ ‘yes! of course i would be fine with that.’ ‘so, you mean to tell me *puts his plate down* that if i just interrupted our conversation right now *gets on a knee* and asked you to marry me, even though we’re just having a normal day *pulls out ring* you’d be fine with that?’ i remember saying, ‘i am holding a plate of mashed potatoes right now!’ hahaha! i loved it. it really was perfect. a regular day. making dinner together. having a conversation. just living our life together — making it official that we were gonna keep making our life together. xoxoxo note: if you buy something through our links, we may earn an affiliate commission, at no cost to you. we recommend only products we genuinely like. thank you so much. (photo from cup of jo’s instagram.) december 13, 2019 2:52pm comments 50 you may also like… design have a lovely weekend. april 21, 2017 65 design have a fun weekend. may 5, 2017 59 comments 50 post a comment alison says... i made those cookies this weekend and they are so worth it! i have had a hard time not eating them all myself! december 17, 2019 4:42pm / reply ann says... re the nyt article: maybe i’m a terrible person, but i read that and while i do think it’s romantic, i can’t help feeling bad for the deceased first wife who was married to a man who walked around with a photo of his high school girlfriend buried in his wallet the entire 60 years she was with him. am i awful? maybe i am. december 16, 2019 2:43pm / reply jw says... i thought the same thing! i strongly dislike stories like this. seems so disrespectful to their previous spouses! december 16, 2019 3:07pm / mk says... oh. my. gawd that proposal story is precious. possibly the most romantic story i’ve ever heard, and i’m a jane austen binger. also s/o to homeboy who kept the ring on hand for the perfect moment! december 16, 2019 11:39am / reply anaïs says... “just living our life together, making it official that we were gonna keep making our life together.” <3 december 16, 2019 4:54am / reply kamina says... the creator of sushi go is a pastor at my church here in australia. so wonderful to see it getting love across the world….just another way coj makes me feel like part of a global community. <3 december 16, 2019 1:58am / reply em says... that proposal story was the sweetest thing! december 15, 2019 9:05am / reply batya says... or any other variant (“italian english” or “african american english”). do those qualify as dialects? december 14, 2019 8:27pm / reply allie says... loved that nyt story until, “throughout his 60-year marriage, and despite what he called his “very real” love for his wife, mr. harvey kept ms. callahan’s high school photo in his wallet.” whaaaat??? december 14, 2019 8:26pm / reply emily says... i thought the same thing! *searches husbands wallet* haha december 16, 2019 9:11am / batya says... um, in the map of languages in new york city, what is “jewish english”? december 14, 2019 8:25pm / reply sarah says... english with yiddish sprinkled in, i’m guessing. it’s what my grandparents spoke, lol. december 17, 2019 6:26pm / cynthia miller says... love your proposal story, libby! sounds like you both really understand each other. december 14, 2019 5:49pm / reply shila soni says... that proposal is the sweetest ❤️ thank you for highlighting that awesome story! december 14, 2019 4:46pm / reply cynthia says... sushi go looks like fun and the digital camera for kids is an awesome idea! the sweater is a classic and i have a cotton one in similar style i’ve had for several years and it works with everything. i like the idea that everlane is recylcing wool. your boots would work with everything, and that they’re ethically made is great too. december 14, 2019 10:33am / reply lauren e. says... that proposal… omg. so sweet!! i love an understated proposal. my husband proposed in paris (swoon) but we were in our underwear watching 40 year old virgin in our rental apartment, and he paused the movie, dug in his sneaker, and got down on one knee. it was so perfect. december 14, 2019 9:28am / reply melissa says... the proposal story is perfect. i got engaged in my pjs on christmas morning. the first picture of me with my ring is a hot mess – hair everywhere, glasses and no make up. it was perfectly us and almost 25 years ago (yikes!) december 14, 2019 9:11am / reply tawnya says... i loved reading the proposal comment because that’s how my husband proposed to me so well. he came into the kitchen with the mail and, as i was opening the first letter, he started nervously telling me about our life and our love while pulling the ring out of his pocket! he had just picked it up and knew he wouldn’t be able to keep it to himself for a single second lol (he can’t keep my christmas presents secret either 😂). we’ll be married four years this month. december 14, 2019 6:20am / reply katie says... my four year old found a kids digital camera while thrifting the other day. it might be the most rewarding $3.50 i have ever spent! we had to erase 1200 photos belonging to another child and it’s so old it’s not compatible with any computer, so we can upload any photos and still i would highly recommend a camera for little kids thrifted or not. december 14, 2019 5:58am / reply anna says... such a good question liz and one i have often pondered myself. my husband and i just agreed to get married – no ring, no question-popping, no performance, no big shebang of a surprise with a million cogs and pulleys and lookers-on. it suited us. we’re both really shy, both utterly non-theatrical, both hate being the centre of attention. i find surprise proposal stories almost painful to read about, imagining the pressure and performance of those protocols – but obviously i am in a massive minority and recognise these kinds of moments bring others great meaning and joy. i do not however buy cedar’s explanation above, that marriage is so hard and solemn and life-threatening for women that they deserve and indeed demand some kind of ritual recognition that they might die in childbirth. marriages were arranged between families in the old days, after all, a contract negotiated by parents, rarely by lovers – surprise question popping wasn’t a thing until relatively recently in human history. so honestly i think it’s just about movies. people like to feel like the stars of their own life stories and those key turning point moments (marriage proposals, weddings themselves, announcements of pregnancies etc) demand something special, memorable and cinematic. i guess it feels like something worth marking, worth turning into a ritual. and in our culture, through movies, that ritual has evolved to include a surprise. there must be anthropological reasons behind the security blanket of ritual but i wouldn’t presume to understand them. though i do feel like a bit of anthropologist sometimes, looking in from the outside at these communal moments that bring genuine joy to those involved and yet seem, to me, such strange performances, rife with pressure and the burden of expectation. i don’t know. humans are weird. why do some amazonian tribes paint their faces? because they’ve created a culture of meaning around face painting, and subscribing to that culture reinforces the idea that they belong. december 14, 2019 4:49am / reply anna says... ugh. this was supposed to be a reply to liz, whose comment looks like it is now somewhere way below mine. i hope you see this liz, because your interesting question really made me think x december 14, 2019 4:52am / walisa says... not laughing – at all – about the aunts story. another tedious portrayal of older women as passive aggressive and deceptive. it time to be done with that. december 13, 2019 11:49pm / reply hannah says... our family is obsessed with sushi go as well! we played it for about a month straight after getting it last christmas. a friend just introduced us to the card game dutch blitz on thanksgiving and i immediately ordered it. it’s fast-paced and addictive just like sushi go and my boys love it. highly recommended if you’ve never played it. december 13, 2019 8:14pm / reply sara cotner says... thank you for the recommendation, hannah! we’ve been playing slamwich and gotown which are both a ton of fun. i will check our dutch blitz! december 14, 2019 3:39pm / abesha1 says... why, oh, why does the camera have to be only either pink or blue??? why? green is a nice color. yellow? black? white? ok i’m done ranting now. 😜 december 13, 2019 7:12pm / reply monica says... that is a sweet proposal story, and it reminds me of my own – my future hubs and i pretty much unspokenly knew we’d get married, and we’d just hit the 3-year dating mar so i figured a proposal was coming soon. he came over to my apartment on a thursday evening after work, i’d just gotten the mail and had just sat down when he got down on his knee and pulled out the ring!! totally casual and sweet (and we still both almost cried). he told me later that he’d just picked up the ring that day and was so nervous he’d lose it that he decided to propose that same day! haha. :) december 13, 2019 7:02pm / reply cheryl says... almost exact same story except i came home loaded with christmas presents after an exhausting day when we were both living in nyc. he waited until i set my bags down. it was so casual and so sincere and genuine. just like him. p.s. it’s our eleven year wedding anniversary today! december 13, 2019 11:32pm / kristin says... wow! great article about items you still have from your first apartment. i am an architect and have; a gigantic vintage work table i use as my desk, a white metal floor lamp from cb2 that is perfection, and two framed pieces of once oh so trendy art (the “we are so good together” print and the brooklyn neighborhood map in black), a framed sensation poster from the brooklyn museum (from the second art show i saw in nyc), and two other framed prints. would love to hear other people’s items! december 13, 2019 6:36pm / reply kat says... is someone cutting onions? …but really, i love this proposal story! i could only hope for a sweet and simple proposal like that one day. december 13, 2019 5:35pm / reply ellen says... that proposal story is straight out of a rom com (in the very best way)! december 13, 2019 5:06pm / reply erin says... my sister and brother in law’s engagement story is kind of similar (and sweet). he had booked a romantic horse riding experience and had the ring, but upon arriving, there were tons of strangers in the group and he realized my sister would be uncomfortable. they drove to my parent’s house, and as he tells it now, he was extremely nervous and bothered that he hadn’t proposed yet. he thought about it the whole drive. he got out of the car and walked over to my sister’s side, opened her door and got down on one knee in the driveway. she was thrilled and they went into the house where her unsuspecting parents and sisters happened to be. and when he told her that he almost proposed while they were horseback riding, she said she was so happy he hadn’t done it then. december 13, 2019 5:02pm / reply quinn says... oh that proposal story — i have goosebumps! so great. :) december 13, 2019 4:51pm / reply emily says... ok, this part killed me “just living our life together — making it official that we were gonna keep making our life together.” so cutie libby! <3 december 13, 2019 4:40pm / reply kylee says... i ordered the camera for my boy and girl 5 and almost 3. hoping it’s a good one! gives me hope that it’s on here :) happy holidays! december 13, 2019 4:34pm / reply izabela says... hi, i have a question re everlane recashmere sweater: does it pile??? i looove cashmere sweaters but the ones i have from j.crew pile like hell:( does the one you recommend pile??? it is really nice one… december 13, 2019 4:15pm / reply jo says... i have it, it’s not pulling yet, but like all everlane sweaters you can’t machine wash it. i think dry cleaning is disgusting and wash all my sweaters with wool wash on the delicate cycle, reshape and lay to dry. works almost all of the time, but never for everlane. i’ve tried six different ones so far and every one has been ruined (shrunken and misshapen). bummer, they look so promising! (fyi, my uniqlo cashmere sweaters come out looking brand new, wash after wash) december 13, 2019 7:31pm / shannon says... my husband has a cashmere sweater from uniqlo – it’s much better quality than the other cashmere sweaters we’ve had over the years. i went to get one for myself, but the uniqlo women’s cashmere sweaters tend to be cut pretty short. they didn’t work for me (i have a long torso) but if you have a short or normal torso they’re worth checking out! december 14, 2019 2:16pm / kt says... i have the cashmere crew from everlane in several colors. my very first one, gray and bought three years ago, still hasn’t piled. i love it. december 14, 2019 8:40pm / jane says... it pills more than uniqlo cashmere in my experience. and has a bit of a dishrag quality to boot. i also bought some of their chunky cashmere and that was miles better fibre quality wise although the shape of it was still not quite right. some uniqlo cashmere pills badly, different colours, different sweaters in same line can vary wildly. however i have learned to buy mine at the end of the season and by that time it’s been hanging around and tried on so much that if it has a “fluffy” look still on the shelf you know it’s going to be a problem. if it’s still nice it’s a winner and will remain minimally pilled. december 15, 2019 4:58pm / annab says... the everyday sweater link blew me away….not because of the sweater but because the model is 5’4″! as a petite shorty, i was so happy to see a non-amazonian model. for the first time, i could really tell how the sweater would look on my body. and then i got a little sad that it took until 2019 for me to see a petite model. december 13, 2019 3:55pm / reply lauren says... that might be my favorite proposal story of all time! december 13, 2019 3:47pm / reply liz says... 1) i bought three of those cameras for my nieces and nephew this year! 2) what a great comment/story!! 3) question related to that comment, but also many others and probably better for the post earlier but i’m afraid no one will see it if i post it there now: what’s the rationale behind “popping the question” as a surprise if your partner already knows you have a ring and both parties know they want to get married soon? no judgment just asking why someone would want to both be surprised to get asked but also very much so not — just would love to hear people’s thoughts december 13, 2019 3:33pm / reply cedar says... because commitment demands respect and protocols are a tried and true way to express that respect. for centuries, and even now, marriage for a woman meant bearing children – a life-threatening proposition – among many other indignity’s like putting up with a man and all the extra work that can entail. (until very recently and still only for a small portion of humanity marriage does not mean extra work for a man – only for a woman.) the best way for men to acknowledge the seriousness of requesting union with a woman is with immense respect for what they are asking of that woman, hence, protocols. for same gender relationships i think the same respect still applies in that marriage is a proposition not to be undertaken lightly. when my sister’s now-husband initially proposed she said he sounded too hesitant and insecure, and they both knew it. he was worthy and capable of better. she straight up, but kindly, told him to ask her again. he did and it was better – for both of them. i’ve always been impressed by her confidence on that occasion. december 13, 2019 5:56pm / nikki says... hi liz, that was how my proposal went down as well — i actually picked out the moonstone ring of my dreams after happening across it online and while my partner was very happy to get the ring then, he needed a bit more time than i did to feel ready to actually start the engagement process. while i’ve never personally been a big fan of traditional proposals (or the patriarchal vibes i get when i think about them), it was something that felt important to my partner, as he wanted to make the formal declaration when the time felt right. fast forward about a year from getting the ring and he decided to pop the question at an outdoor vampire weekend show we’d been eagerly anticipating. i think finding a balance for both of us to feel involved and have the type of engagement that felt natural to our respective selves was most important, albeit unconventional! december 13, 2019 6:25pm / libby says... hi! i wrote the story! honestly, i don’t really know. :d it was just something that was important to him. december 13, 2019 7:17pm / ls says... good question. i can only speak from my own experience (obviously), but in my relationship i’m usually the one pushing things forward, even when my husband agrees. he’s just very laidback. so it was important to me that he pick a time and a place and a method for making our engagement official. i wanted him to be an active participant, and i wanted to make sure he felt invested in the process. december 14, 2019 2:49pm / karyn says... i love all these thoughtful responses! also libby’s comment and the original coj story. also this crying-and-laughing-out-loud piece by susanna wolff that i happened to read a couple weeks prior: https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2019/12/02/the-perfect-engagement-photo-session december 14, 2019 9:11pm / leanne says... if your crew loves sushi go you may also like sleeping queens and exploding kittens. however our absolute favorite is unstable unicorns. it’s “cute” which my 9 year old likes but it’s also a little “evil” which the 6 year likes. it was also a huge hit with my girl scout troop who adopted the unicorn as their troop crest earlier this year. nothing like an all girl gang of unstable unicorns to have your back. december 15, 2019 9:19am / hali says... omg sushi go!! we played that game for about 8 hours straight years ago on new years day! in a friend’s very dark apartment (many groaning hungover bodies strewn about) as morning became early evening, sushi go managed to entertain those of us that weren’t brutally hungover without aggravating those of us that were. eventually we picked up cheap sushi takeout from a beloved local haunt “sushistop” and brought it back to eat while we kept playing. it all felt so miserable and cosy and fun. woah that’s a flashback. all of the sudden i feel a little old. it’s been a long time since i woke up with a hangover on nyd and i definitely have not played sushi go since! december 13, 2019 3:27pm / reply lisa says... i love the proposal story! december 13, 2019 3:01pm / reply cancel reply comment name email website notify me of follow-up comments by email. about / contact joanna goddard brighten up your inbox let’s hang out contact me design most popular my sister’s home makeover 8 awesome podcasts john derian lives in a sea captain’s house behind the scenes: making a magazine cover what’s the most beautiful thing you’ve ever read? the #1 item you need for house guests our brooklyn family apartment 9 great instagram accounts 14 genius tips for living in a small space this cozy minnesota home will make you want a candelabra load more design favorite books design gift guides design weekend link lists disclosure in order to grow our small business, cup of jo earns revenue in a few different ways. we publish several sponsored posts each month, which are always labeled at the top. we also sometimes earn an affiliate commission on the sales of products we link to. we feature only items we genuinely love and want to share, and this is an arrangement between the retailer and cup of jo (readers never pay more for products). these are the ways we support cup of jo, and allow us to run the site and engage with this community we truly love. thank you for reading! you might also like style everyday nail polish food picky eater strategy: muffin tin tapas design san francisco summers travel the best travel shoes relationships a trick for making weekends feel longer motherhood toby and anton in conversation about a cup of jo welcome! a cup of jo is a daily lifestyle site for women. we cover everything from fashion to culture to parenthood, and we strive to be authentic. as olive kitteridge said, "there's no such thing as a simple life." thank you for reading. read more style food design travel relationships motherhood about contact faq let's hang out