#therewithyou jobs homes motors book an ad local listings largs 7°c our facebook feedslargs & millport weekly news facebook our twitter feedslargs & millport weekly news twitter register sign in register sign in register sign in news sport announcements opinion what's on e-edition news largs millport fairlie west kilbride inverkip wemyss bay skelmorlie national news general election coronavirus sport football largs thistle largs tennis club swimming junior football national sport announcements death notices public notices in memoriam acknowledgements birthdays anniversaries greetings births all opinion comment blogs letters to the editor what's on going out staying in reviews events national entertainment e-edition supplements connect having more unusual dreams during lockdown? you may not be alone menu news national news having more unusual dreams during lockdown? you may not be alone by press association 2020 people sleeping 0 comment life in lockdown could be causing people to have longer, more memorable and more intense or emotional dreams, an expert has said. increased financial pressures, cabin fever, and a lack of stimulation caused by staying at home for days on end could all result in significant changes to the dreams people are having, said professor mark blagrove, a leading expert in sleep and dreaming at swansea university’s department of psychology. professor blagrove told the pa news agency: “many people will have experienced a change in their circumstances recently, and any type of stress may be dreamt about. “some people will be having a life that is more boring than previously. “but there will be a lot of people who have more stress, possibly because they are with people who they wouldn’t spend so long with as a proportion of the day. “it may be discomforting, it may be extremely stressful and dangerous for people in domestic violence situations. “you then have the extra things like financial worries, employment worries, worries about your children.” prof blagrove said there was a metaphorical “replication of life in dreams” which focuses on the “more emotional side”. he said: “for a lot of people, they won’t dream about their working life because, generally, it’s not that interesting. “but if the current situation gives people more interesting things happening, it may happen that people are dreaming more.” what should i do if i feel anxious about #coronavirus?@drhilaryjones shares plenty of helpful advice ⬇️ more info: https://t.co/oifxrx1ezn#covid19 | #askdrh | #stayhomesavelives pic.twitter.com/plz2jdqe1t — department of health and social care (@dhscgovuk) march 26, 2020 professor blagrove said that with workers no longer having to commute to their offices following the outbreak of covid-19, there is a greater opportunity for people to sleep in, allowing them more opportunity to dream. this has a particular impact on rem sleep, where dreams get longer and the brain is more active the later into the slumber they occur. he said: “alarm clocks will often wake you up in the middle of a rem sleep period. if you’re allowing the person to have the long sleep period, they could have longer dreams. “you are more likely to remember the dream if you have a longer sleep. if you have a longer sleep, you will have a longer dream.” professor blagrove, who said he had started dreaming about his cat since spending more time at home, said dreams featuring coronavirus, isolation or money would suggest that they are important to the person emotionally. and he said there may be an increase in people dreaming about somebody they have not spoken to or seen in a while “due to long times spent on social media”. he added: “there’s going to be a lot of people having quite emotional dreams.” 0 comment sorry, an error occurred. sign in or register leave a comment or rate a comment most read commented loading... read more get involved with the news in your community send your stories and photos now by continue reading by continue reading by continue reading by continue reading most popular commented loading... read more contact us newsletters photo sales newsquest printing advertise archive site map announcements leap exchange and mart terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy manage consent terms of advertising contributor terms diversity statement ipsoregulated this website and associated newspapers adhere to the independent press standards organisation's editors' code of practice. if you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then please contact the editor here. if you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact ipso here ©copyright 2001-2020. this site is part of newsquest's audited local newspaper network. a gannett company. newsquest media group ltd, loudwater mill, station road, high wycombe, buckinghamshire. hp10 9ty | 01676637 | registered in england & wales. news largs millport fairlie west kilbride inverkip wemyss bay skelmorlie national news general election coronavirus sport football largs thistle largs tennis club swimming junior football national sport announcements death notices public notices in memoriam acknowledgements birthdays anniversaries greetings births all opinion comment blogs letters to the editor what's on going out staying in reviews events national entertainment e-edition supplements connect #therewithyou jobs homes motors book an ad local listings