skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged headers it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 4 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. article february 21, 2020 fixed headers and jump links? the solution is scroll-margin-top author chris coyier 21 comments join conversation the problem: you click a jump link like <a href="#header-3">jump</a> which links to something like <h3 id="header-3">header</h3>. that's totally fine, until you have a position: fixed; header at the top of the page obscuring the header you're trying to link to! fixed headers have a nasty habit of hiding the element you're trying to link to. … read article “fixed headers and jump links? the solution is scroll-margin-top” headers links scroll-margin scroll-padding article march 7, 2017 the document outline dilemma author amelia bellamy-royds 17 comments go to comments for the past few weeks there has been lots of talk about html headings in web standards circles. perhaps you've seen some of the blog posts, tweets, and github issue threads. headings have been part of html since the very first websites at cern, so it might be surprising to find them controversial 25 years later. i'm going to quickly summarize why they are still worth discussing, with plenty of links to other sources, before adding my own opinions … read article “the document outline dilemma” accessibility document outline headers semantics article february 14, 2017 creating non-rectangular headers author erik kennedy 26 comments go to comments over at medium, jon moore recently identified "non-rectangular headers" as a tiny trend. a la: it's not crazy popular yet, but just you wait, kiddo. we're talking about headers (or, more generally, any container element) that have a non-rectangular shape. such as trapezoids, complex geometric shapes, rounded/elliptical, or even butt-cheek shaped. design headers svg snippet september 21, 2009 persistant headers on tables author chris coyier 17 comments join conversation when you scroll down a page with a long table on it, typically the header of the table scrolls away and becomes useless. this code clones the table header and applies it at the top of the page once you have scrolled beyond it, and disappears when you have scrolled past the table. these days, you're probably better off using position: sticky; than using javascript, but you'll have to make that browser support call on your own. function updatetableheaders() {
   … read article “persistant headers on tables” headers jquery sticky tables how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers