avocadu healthy from the inside out blog gut-14 probiotics resources about login start my 21-day challenge! weight loss yoga healthy living recipes supplements 21-day challenge yoga fat loss bible you are here: home / resources resources we get asked almost every day about the products we use and the resources we recommend. that’s why we believe this page will be helpful to those of you looking to quickly finding solutions that you can trust. these products are all things we have tried and use ourselves. we do get a small commission from some of the products you see here at no extra cost to you. we only link to products we personally use and support and if you do purchase through us you have our sincere and heartfelt thanks! hope you enjoy the products are much as we do: most recommended: avocadu’s gut-14 probiotics in a recent study, women taking probiotics lost 50% more weight than those who did not. your gut health and how well you absorb nutrients matters. don’t miss out on getting in a daily probiotic. click here. coconut oil another daily must have for a healthy kitchen. not only is coconut oil one of the best oils to cook with, it is also one of the most versatile oils in a home. click here. matcha green tea green tea on steroids. the reason green tea is so healthy is from its high amounts of egcg and one cup of matcha has 3x egcg as regular green tea. for the brand we use. click here. whey protein powder whey protein is a daily staple for us. we use it in our greek yogurt, in certain recipes, or just as a stand-alone snack. get in more protein into the diet in a healthy and easy way with a simple low carb whey protein powder. click here. apple cider vinegar amazing tool for skin health, better digestion, and weight loss. this drink is one of the healthiest ways to help curb carb and sugar cravings. take 30 minutes before meals for best effects. click here. omega 3’s one of the most well researched supplements of all time with over 700 studies. omega 3’s are amazing for blood flow, lowing inflammation, and supporting hormonal health. we take this on the days we don’t eat fatty fish like salmon. click here. vitamin d3 80% of people on the planet are deficient in vitamin d levels from lack of sunlight. we take 3000ius on the days we can’t get out in the sun. click here. yeti just the best cup in the world. we use it everyday for keeping our coffee and green tea hot. then if we want something cold just add ice and it keeps everything ice cold for hours. the ice won’t melt for 6+ hours in our experience, no joke. click here. bpa free water bottle the perfect water container for when you travel or just need to better track your water intake. unlike the yeti, this bottle is super portable so if you’re going on a hike or traveling, it’s perfect. click here. yoga mat you can’t yoga without the right yoga mat. we have been sent lots of products to try for free and yoga mats include that thing. we have tried and tested so many at this point it’s hard to keep track. you can grab our favorite by clicking here. yoga strap we both were blessed with incredible tight hamstrings and tight muscles. they best way we have found to improve flexibility asap is with a great yoga strap. they are cheap and incredibly useful. click here. greens powder for those of you that struggle to get in your veggie intake every day (5+ servings) this is a great solution. tastes greats and provides you all the amazing micronutrients that go missing from the standard diet. click here. this post may contain affiliate links. please read our disclosure for more info. copyright © 2020 · disclaimer · privacy policy · comment policy · terms & conditions · contact · the new grind llc dba avocadu.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.