menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login category “healthy habits” stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy by sandy woznicki “health is not just about what you’re eating. it’s also about what you’re thinking and saying.” a virus is spreading across the globe. schools are shut down. people are out of work. grocery stores are empty. weddings, graduations, vacations, a … how to take good care of yourself during the coronavirus pandemic by suzanne falter for more than a week now, i’ve been immersed in how to handle the pandemic that is unfolding all around us. by now, one thing is clear to me. we are either our greatest allies or our own worst enemies … why my “self-care” did more harm than good by laura mckowen “self-care is how you take your power back.” ~lalah delia self-care is not a bubble bath. i mean, it might be, if you’re the kind of person who feels like they’re committing a mortal sin by allowing themselves to wade … i used to be hungry all the time by roni davis i mean, hungry allll the time. basically, if i was awake, i was ready to eat. i’d mindlessly pick at whatever was available. i’d wander the kitchen feeling “snacky” all the time. i’d be completely consumed with thoughts of what … if you hate your body and think you need to fix it… by roni davis “that girl was fat, and i hate her.” one of my clients said this the other day—about herself. well, her little girl self. and my heart broke. one of the very first things i do with clients is encourage them … what you need to know if you obsess about weight loss by roni davis “by choosing healthy over skinny you are choosing self-love over self-judgment.” ~steve maraboli if we actually care about health, in 2020, we have to stop trying to lose weight. i know, that’s the opposite of what we’ve been taught to … 20 life-changing tools, 95% off—one week, starting today by lori deschene first things first, happy 2020! it’s a new year, filled with promise and possibility. if last year was tough for you, it’s now in the rearview mirror. if it was full of blessings and opportunities, you’re likely excited to see … 12 habits to adopt to make this your best year yet by lori deschene many of us head into the new year with big goals and ambitions. we think about everything that seems to be lacking in our lives and imagine ourselves far happier and more fulfilled on the other side of massive change.… take the 31-day healthier you challenge (giveaway!) by lori deschene it’s almost that time again—the beginning of a new year, when many of us consider how we can become happier, healthier, more fulfilled people. while i personally think we can create positive change at any time of year, i’ve always … how to avoid emotional burnout this holiday season by joanna ciolek whether you celebrate or not, the holiday season can be stressful for many reasons. from experiencing difficult emotions like grief, anger, or resentment that seem to resurface out or nowhere, to the pressures of making everything perfect for everyone, … how mother nature and i manage my depression by amie gabriel “i go to nature to be soothed and healed, and to have my senses put in order.” ~john burroughs i sat on the front stoop sobbing, unable to move. hunched over like a heaving dog hugging my knees and clutching … the simple changes that reduced my phone-induced anxiety by kristine peter “simple living doesn’t solve all my problems, it just removes distractions.” ~melissa camara wilkins at times it’s felt like my phone was my only access to the outside world. a place to connect in the middle of the night. the … living with depression and anxiety: how to lessen the pain by george ripley “i am bent, but not broken. i am scarred, but not disfigured. i am sad, but not hopeless. i am tired, but not powerless. i am angry, but not bitter. i am depressed, but not giving up.” ~unknown depression and … the truth about body-positive activists on social media by ginelle testa “the most difficult times for many of us are the ones we give ourselves.” ~pema chodron i’m on my phone, posting a photo of myself on instagram. it’s a vulnerable shot—i’m holding my bare belly. i type in the … the number on the scale does not dictate your value by nicola casey “to be beautiful means to be yourself. you don’t need to be accepted by others. you need to accept yourself.” ~thich nhat hanh we try to give our bodies value with numbers. we’re obsessed with the number on the scale … why i’m at peace with my weight gain by ginelle testa “resistance keeps you stuck. surrender immediately opens you to the greater intelligence that is vaster than the human mind, and it can then express itself through you. so through surrender often you find circumstances changing.” ~eckhart tolle i took … 7 ways running helps me live my best life by will aylward “i don’t run to add days to my life, i run to add life to my days.” ~ronald rook growing up, i was always a bit on the tubby side, or, as my mum would say, “stocky.” old and grainy … how to listen to your body and give it what it needs by wendy leeds “and i said to my body softly, ‘i want to be your friend.’ it took a long breath and replied, ‘i’ve been waiting my whole life for this.’” ~nayyirah waheed for more than half my life, i took care of … how to replace body-hate with self-compassion by lesa ashlea rankin “loving yourself is the greatest revolution.” ~unknown i’ve spent most of my life struggling with my weight and trying desperately to fit the idealistic image of beauty that our culture celebrates. as a young teen, i was obsessed with magazines … the best question for self-care: what do you really need today? by alison kate “each day is a little life: every waking and rising a little birth, every fresh morning a little youth, every going to rest and sleep a little death.” ~arthur schopenhauer about a month ago i came back to my daily … page 1 of 1512345...10...»last » translate free download: buddha desktop wallpaper recent forum topics abandonment issues & experiencing love? breakup, cheating, bad fight, just looking for advice? heartbroken lost lonely _ how move on emotional learning journey what should i do? have i tried hard enough? not feeling motivated lately need some inspiration! maintaining self in relationships please guys, i really need your advice. break up and third party situation my girlfriend said she has a soulmate but it isn't me fun & inspiring don’t let social distance lead to emotional distance get more fun & inspiring images & videos. latest posts 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be if you think people-pleasing is being kind… stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing 3 approaches to the coronavirus (and which is smartest) disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top