subscribe nutrition daily articles about nutrition, weight loss, and health. all articles are based on scientific evidence, written and fact checked by experts. our licensed nutritionists and dietitians strive to be objective and honest, and present both sides of the argument. 13 ways to prevent stress eating when you’re stuck at home though self-isolating is the best way to protect against covid-19, being stuck at home can lead to some unhealthy habits. here are 13 ways to prevent…read more can you refreeze chicken? you may wonder whether chicken can be refrozen after it has been thawed. this article discusses how to safely refreeze chicken, plus tips for storage…read more are cheerios healthy? nutrients, flavors, and more cheerios are one of the most popular breakfast cereals, but you may wonder whether they're good for you or your kids. this article tells you all you…read more 5 evidence-based benefits of spinach juice spinach juice adds a burst of green to your daily routine. here are 5 evidence-based health benefits of spinach juice.read more fact checking ‘the game changers’: are its claims true? "the game changers," a popular netflix documentary, promotes the vegan diet at all costs — but you may wonder how well its claims stack up to science…read more does garcinia cambogia work? garcinia cambogia products are amongst the most popular dietary supplements used by consumers to shed extra pounds. this article reviews garcinia…read more can vitamin d lower your risk of covid-19? you may wonder whether supplementing with vitamin d may help reduce your risk of contracting the new coronavirus that causes covid-19. this article…read more what is soda addiction? all you need to know sodas are made with addictive ingredients like caffeine and sugar, making them uniquely enjoyable and leading to cravings. this article reviews soda…read more how long do potatoes last? raw potatoes keep for a long time, but cooked ones spoil faster. this article tells you precisely how long potatoes last and explains signs of…read more does kimchi go bad? kimchi is a sour, spicy korean dish made of fermented cabbage. this article tells you how long kimchi lasts and how to tell when it has gone bad.read more coconut water vs. coconut milk: what’s the difference? coconut water and coconut milk both stem from the coconut palm, but they're two distinct beverages. this article explains the differences between…read more 7 keto risks to keep in mind although the ketogentic diet is linked to weight loss and other benefits, it also carries several risks. here are 7 potential keto dangers.read more is saturated fat unhealthy? saturated fat has a bad rap, but you may wonder whether the criticism is warranted. this article takes a deep dive into the latest findings in…read more what’s the difference between tangerines and clementines? when the produce department is bursting with citrus fruits, it’s easy to get confused about the different varieties. this article explains the key…read more mustard greens: nutrition facts and health benefits mustard greens are peppery-tasting greens that come from the mustard plant. this article provides a complete overview of mustard greens, including…read more the 15 best supplements to boost your immune system right now no supplement will cure or prevent disease, including covid-19, but some may improve immune response. here are 15 supplements that are known for their…read more 23 studies on low carb and low fat diets — time to retire the fad over 20 studies have compared low carb and low fat diets. low carb diets consistently lead to better results, both for weight loss and common risk…read more lactose-free diet: foods to eat and avoid lactose is a simple sugar in milk that many people have trouble digesting. this article takes a closer look at which foods you should eat and avoid as…read more 3 best substitutes for yeast to help you in a pinch yeast is a vital ingredient in many bread recipes, but you may wonder whether other ingredients can be used in place of it in a pinch. here are the 3…read more what’s the difference between sugar and sugar alcohol? both sugar and sugar alcohols are found naturally in food and added to processed items. this article explains the important differences between sugar…read more about us health topics health news contact us advertise with us advertising policy newsletters careers find an online doctor do not sell my info © 2005-2020 healthline media a red ventures company. all rights reserved. our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. healthline media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. see additional information.