newsletter coronavirus latest covid-19 live updates: total number of deaths passes 25,000 fact checked by jasmin collier covid-19: 5 reasons to be cautiously hopeful fact checked by isabel godfrey novel coronavirus: your questions, answered fact checked by isabel godfrey coronavirus myths explored fact checked by isabel godfrey latest news how to look after your mental health during a pandemic fact checked by jasmin collier ‘i have never seen anything like this,’ says new york city doctor… medical news today spoke with anesthetist dr. sai-kit wong about the covid-19 pandemic… weight gain may reduce risk of breast cancer before menopause fact checked by jessica beake, ph.d. is the anti-flu drug avigan effective in treating covid-19? fact checked by hilary guite, ffph, mrcgp a promising new mechanism for long lasting pain relief fact checked by alexandra sanfins, ph.d. prof. martin bachmann on making millions of coronavirus vaccine doses medical news today spoke to expert immunologist prof. martin bachmann about his… how close is a covid-19 vaccine? prof. martin bachmann on stopping a… medical news today spoke to immunologist prof. martin bachmann about his coronavirus… covid-19 live updates: total number of deaths passes 25,000 fact checked by jasmin collier aspirin does not prevent dementia or slow down cognitive decline fact checked by isabel godfrey repurposed drug may reduce covid-19 deaths fact checked by paula field featured stories the role of inflammation in dementia may inform new treatments fact checked by alexandra sanfins, ph.d. why is nutrition so hard to study? fact checked by yella hewings-martin, ph.d. could a protein grown in lettuce help heal broken bones faster? fact checked by paula field neuroscience research: 6 fascinating findings fact checked by carolyn robertson in the spotlight why are covid-19 death rates so hard to calculate? experts weigh in experts weigh in on why calculating the case mortality rate for covid-19 is so 'tricky' and suggest the 3.4% rate that who have stated is an overestimate. what does love do to our brains? in this special feature, we look at what we know about the neuroscience of romantic love. where in the brain is love? how and why does it affect our mind? letter from the editor: the importance of accurate reporting in this month’s letter, managing editor honor whiteman addresses the importance of accurate and balanced health reporting in response to the recent covid-19 outbreak. why is nutrition so hard to study? which foods are healthful? which foods should we avoid? in this feature, we ask why the results of nutrition studies are so contradictory and confusing. milk: is it as healthful as we think? experts are calling into question dietary guidelines around milk consumption, highlighting why the recommendations may not be justified. novel coronavirus: your questions, answered the global outbreak of a new coronavirus has begun to worry international communities. in this article, find out what we know about it so far. through my eyes through my eyes: surviving encephalitis my name is kertisha brabson. i was left fighting for my life when i developed a rare… through my eyes: hidden dental infections my name is pamela wild, and i was completely disabled for eight years until i had… through my eyes: surviving cancer twice in 1972, i survived breast cancer only to receive a diagnosis of stage 4 ovarian cancer in… through my eyes: living with an invisible illness my name is sylvia arotin, and i have an invisible illness. this is my story of living with… through my eyes: living with shoulder arthritis my name is rudy kadlub, and i'm a 70-year-old powerlifter. this is my story of how i… through my eyes: facing a cancer diagnosis my name is chris fry, and i received a diagnosis of terminal cancer this year. this is how… past headlines who launch trial testing 4 potential covid-19 treatments fact checked by zia sherrell what who advisor david heymann told us about covid-19 medical news today spoke to who advisor and infectious disease expert professor david… daily hot baths tied to lower cardiovascular disease risk fact checked by alexandra sanfins, ph.d. could reducing brain inflammation prevent memory loss in alzheimer’s? fact checked by shikta das, ph.d. scientists find promising new treatment for lyme disease fact checked by eleanor bird, m.s. covid-19 frontline healthcare workers at risk of mental health… fact checked by isabel godfrey could probiotics treat obesity? fact checked by harriet pike, ph.d. why social distancing is key in containing the new coronavirus fact checked by anna guildford, ph.d. 30 minutes of music a day may reduce post-heart attack problems fact checked by gianna d'emilio pfas may have a lot in common with carcinogens fact checked by catherine carver, mph popular news editorial articles all news topics knowledge center ad policy newsletters share our content about us our editorial team careers contact us advertise with mnt privacy terms © 2004-2020 healthline media uk ltd, brighton, uk, a red ventures company. all rights reserved. mnt is the registered trade mark of healthline media. any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.