welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog edx and university of texas at austin launch online master of nutrition sciences published on: jan 29, 2020 by carolyn tiernan 2059 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post edx is pleased to announce the launch of an online master of science in nutritional sciences (msns) from the university of texas at austin (ut austin). the program is designed to prepare graduates to work in community or education nutrition, corporate health and food production, or to expand the knowledge of current health professionals. the curriculum is focused on core knowledge related to advanced human... read more about edx and university of texas at austin launch online master of nutrition sciences edx welcomes doane university published on: jan 17, 2018 by johannes heinlein 2940 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to announce that doane university, the leading private liberal arts college in nebraska, has joined the edx global partner community. doane university is known for its undergraduate programs in natural and applied sciences, teacher education, liberal arts and business, along with its convenient and affordable graduate and continuing education programs. its mission centers around academic excellence, innovation, community and a special sense... read more about edx welcomes doane university 5 mindfulness practices to use on and off the mat published on: nov 09, 2017 by catherine spann, stacy dockins 4548 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this article originally appeared on do you yoga. learn more about the mindfulness practices discussed in this post by taking the science and practice of yoga. photo by jake dockins the practice of yoga has two complementary paths converging into one common road towards wellness. one path is physical: we move, we breathe, and our bodies and minds reap the benefits. the other path is mental:... read more about 5 mindfulness practices to use on and off the mat 6 courses to improve your health and wellness published on: mar 09, 2017 by sara reich 9959 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post when it comes to your overall well-being, physical health and mental wellness are huge pieces of the puzzle. taking the time to establish healthy habits can benefit you in countless ways, such as improving your mood, reducing the risk of disease, boosting your energy, and increasing the length of your life. whether you want to develop healthier eating habits, explore the positive effects of exercise, or find new... read more about 6 courses to improve your health and wellness celebrate the olympic games with edx! published on: aug 10, 2016 by alice randall 4760 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post for the next two weeks, the world comes together to watch the olympic games in rio de janeiro. the spotlight shines on brazil, as the country hosts the most talented and dedicated athletes from across the globe. the edx global community is made up of learners and partners from every country in the world and we are excited to cheer each other’s teams on in rio.... read more about celebrate the olympic games with edx! muhandiramalage: broadening her educational expertise with edx published on: jul 22, 2016 by jerry hamedi 4844 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post an edx learner with a true passion for education, muhandiramalage, a chemistry teacher, shares the story of how edx helped her gain knowledge in a vast range of subjects. i’ve been working as a high school chemistry teacher in a british curriculum school in the united arab emirates for the past 18 years. i’m originally from sri lanka, but due to civil war, my husband... read more about muhandiramalage: broadening her educational expertise with edx start college this summer: credit-eligible courses starting in june published on: may 18, 2016 by david mcpherson 6524 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post earn college credit online this summer with three new courses from arizona state university and global freshman academy. if you’ve just graduated high school and want to get a head start on college or if you need to earn credits this summer to fulfill degree requirements, these online courses may be perfect for you. earn up to 15 credit hours that be applied toward an... read more about start college this summer: credit-eligible courses starting in june health, climate change and data analysis. courses starting soon on edx! published on: jan 08, 2016 by justine goulart 4584 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn how to live longer, how to properly proofread an essay or how to know if the water you are drinking is safe. with over 800 courses offered in a wide variety of subject areas, edx helps you better understand the world around you and improves your everyday life. enroll in a course today! a new year’s resolution to chart a new course published on: jan 04, 2016 by david mcpherson 4888 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post the start of a new year is a great time to try something new. if you’ve been thinking about a new career direction or are interested in broadening your skills, taking an introductory online course will allow you to try something out and learn the basics. this month, edx is launching exciting new introductory courses in finance, marketing, entrepreneurship, programming and much more. take this... read more about a new year’s resolution to chart a new course the 3 most important new year’s resolutions and how to keep them published on: dec 29, 2015 by david mcpherson 10101 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post it’s no surprise that the new year’s resolutions to be healthier, learn something new and be a better, more positive person top most lists. these things form the basis for achieving so much more. a healthier you will be energized and ready to take on the world. learning something new can open doors, create opportunities and greatly enrich your life. having a positive “can do”... read more about the 3 most important new year’s resolutions and how to keep them page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close