home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library family health get outdoors! latest articles prevnext healthy lifestyle habits when you have a hectic schedule leyla preston fri 19th jul 2019 2shares share tweet pin “a healthy body is a healthy mind.” the above age-old saying is 100% true. however, for a lot of parents of young children, it can often become quite difficult to make your own wellbeing a priority. perhaps you’d like to lose the baby weight and get into better shape. or you would like to eat healthier and concentrate on your diet. but when do you find the time to commit to preparing meals for yourself and hitting the gym, when you feel that use of time is a selfish one, especially when your kids are vying for your attention 24 hours a day? equally, you may find that you have such a busy lifestyle that time gets away from you, and before you know it, it’s time for bed, and you haven’t got around to losing your ‘baby weight’ when your child starts school. we have busy lives, this is true. but, if this sounds like you, and you want to make summer 2019 the time to stay healthy and happy, as well as shift some unwanted pounds, then below are some healthy lifestyle habits when you have a hectic schedule. find a diet that saves you some time there are so many different nutritional approaches to losing weight, and it’s important to pick the right diet plan so that you’re not concerned with losing time to shop and prepare for special meals for you and the family. you can find plenty of diet options that actually save you time. for example, stick to meals with five ingredients or less and keep to whole food-based ingredients. if you stick to a rule of cutting out processed food, you will find that you will lose excess weight naturally over time. one other example could be to follow meal replacement programs like slim fast, or the recent trend called intermittent fasting, otherwise known as ‘if. if is where you fast either for a whole day as part of a weekly routine, or for several hours every day. you can organise this, so you only eat one meal a day, which is a popular way to practice if, and because you need to get your whole calorie allowance for the day in that one meal, you can select dinner as your main meal with your family every evening. this can save you a lot of time, because you are skipping so many meals, and it also means that you aren’t restricted to having special dishes when you do eat. however, this method may cause you to spike your sugar levels as you are not eating for the whole day and then binging during that one meal. and, it’s a restrictive diet so you may fall off the wagon quite quickly. so, another option would be to use a meal subscription service, where you get everything you need to prepare foods that fit a calorie-controlled diet delivered to your door. again, this could be quite restrictive and also expensive. so, it would be advisable to have a flexible diet plan and stick to meals that contain five ingredients or less. you then eat regularly throughout the day to maintain your sugar levels and if you keep it to whole foods then you will lose weight naturally. make exercise a personal priority photo by emma simpson on unsplash starting a new fitness regime to help yourself meet your weight loss goals can be fun and exciting. but it is important to make sure you are mentally treating the time you spend at the gym or outdoors as an important part of your day, so you don’t skip it just because something came up – because a lot of things will naturally come up. a good way to do this is to mark your workouts in a calendar as if they are important appointments that you cannot miss without a very good reason, and without rescheduling them. don’t think ‘i will try and find time to go to the gym later’ – make it a hard date. it may even be easier to workout at home, so you don’t spend the time getting to the gym, showering and then coming back. if you’re busy at work, then a gym may work for you, but if you’re a stay at home mum, working out at home might be easier. if you have small children, then find ways to involve them in your exercise routine like running with the buggy or using them as weights – just be careful not to drop them when you’re working out! reward yourself with things that are just for you losing weight and becoming a happier, fitter and more confident person will benefit your whole family in the long run. but, to stay motivated, you need to be kind to yourself and reward yourself from time to time after you have achieved the goals you have set for yourself. these can be anything from a long bubble bath to a new hairstyle. or for bigger goals a luxury purchase. bonus points if you can make the things you reward yourself with add to your motivation even further, for example, exercise gear, or a trip to a health spa. another great example could be to reward yourself for getting halfway to your target weight and allowing yourself to invest in a designer pair of sneakers. you can find some gorgeous gucci sneakers and other high-end designer training shoes at luxury designer retailer ssense that will make you want to spend as much time working out as you can just to wear them. losing weight can be an exciting and enjoyable process, and it can do wonders for your energy levels and self-esteem. so if you have been putting it off because you are worried about how much time you will have to spend on good healthy habits, or you aren’t sure you can remain motivated when your life is that busy, then try these ideas. you may be surprised by how easy it becomes to find the time you need for your own self-care, nutrition and exercise, and how good you feel when you earn rewards you really deserve! *collaborative feature post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:busy lifestyleexercisehealthy eating related posts 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... keeping your skin autumn fresh and how g... how to give yourself a little boost with... get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... a day at champneys springs with lights b... 5 super healthy and cold busting smoothi... things you can do before opting for surg... the benefits of walking during pregnancy should you really eat for two during pre... how you can encourage your child to be a... perfect your pelvic floor this 2017 with... how to improve your eyesight now early signs of labour – and what t... how to be an active mum get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... quorn – a healthy alternative to meat &#... 5 self-help tips to keep depression away... how to get fit with beats headphones get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... ways that you can fit exercise and relax... 15 weeks old – is aron teething al... competition time! win a polar loop 2 and... where does your fat go when you lose wei... fish & chips recipe with a twist! 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... organix no junk lunchboxes campaign – jo... ozeri 4x3motion digital pocket 3d pedome... healthy weight loss after pregnancy 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... top five restful activities for parents ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 2shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok