bustle health is the sleep industry a waste of your money?by ashley mateo when self-care becomes a form of activismby anna davies say goodbye to damaged hair & itchy skin with these chlorine-busting shower filters showering in unfiltered, chlorinated water can lead to dry skin, brittle hair, color-treated hair that turns green, or worse — increased itchiness, allergies, and even asthma. but the best shower filters for chlorine will let you relax under a hot…by tiana crump what to know if you're flying during the coronavirus outbreak, according to doctors this post is updated regularly to reflect the latest news and science around coronavirus, also known as covid-19. after the world health organization (who) officially declared the covid-19 disease a pandemic on march 11, you might question whether…by caroline burke 4 beauty products you should definitely be wearing indoors, according to experts one of the best parts of working from home is that the only person who is going to judge your appearance is you. you want to spend a week straight in the same matching sweatsuit? you do you. want to work from home without makeup for an entire month?…by olivia muenter if you’re wondering how deadly coronavirus is, here’s what to know this post is updated regularly to reflect the latest news and science around coronavirus, also known as covid-19. according to the centers for disease control & prevention (cdc), over 1,200 people have died from covid-19 in the united states alone.…by caroline burke boris johnson has tested positive for coronavirus the prime minister boris johnson has tested positive for coronavirus. in a video posted to twitter, johnson revealed he had developed what he described as “mild symptoms,” including a fever and a persistent cough. he added that, on the advice of the…by aimée grant cumberbatch 7 aromatherapy face masks so soothing you may as well be at the spa it's fair to say we're all pretty stressed and highly strung right now due to the current covid-19 health crisis. being unable to lead our daily lives, along with social isolation and potential money worries can really leave you feeling overwhelmed.…by rebecca fearn what happens to your brain when you live-stream a yoga class with social-distancing regulations closing gyms and other exercise spaces, lots of us are newly figuring out how to work out from home. doing an instagram livestream yoga class definitely isn't the same as going into the studio, but the resulting…by jr thorpe evangeline lily is now social distancing after dismissing coronavirus concerns after receiving backlash for her apparent disregard of social distancing, evangeline lilly has apologized for her coronavirus comments. on monday, march 16, lilly claimed that it was "#businessasusual" for her family after she dropped her children…by caitlin gallagher how panic breathing & coronavirus-related shortness of breath are different, according to mds while fever, fatigue, and cough are the most common signs of covid-19, the illness caused by the novel coronavirus, shortness of breath is another possible symptom. people with anxiety can face a dilemma: if they're having difficulty breathing, it…by jr thorpe here are all the events canceled due to coronavirus, from sxsw to the rome marathon as the coronavirus outbreak grows worldwide, so do the number of cancellations of major events in the worlds of music, film, tv, and sports. the amount of events canceled due to coronavirus in the u.s. is practically growing by the minute due to the…by jake viswanath the latest on how the uk is tackling coronavirus this post is updated regularly to reflect the latest news and science around the new coronavirus, also known as covid-19, in the uk. with every day bringing more cases of covid-19 across the globe, it’s easy to fall into a state of panic. if you’re…by bustle uk your ultimate guide to virtual one-night stands flattening the curve doesn't need to mean flattening your sex life. although social-distancing means you won't be taking anyone back to your place any time in foreseeable future, knowing how to have a virtual one-night stand can keep you feeling…by griffin wynne millennials' biggest coronavirus cleaning questions, answered by experts thanks to the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) and the world health organization (who), it's become common knowledge that properly washing your hands, keeping said hands away from your face, and staying home can reduce the risk of…by kaitlyn wylde the royal family joined the uk in thanking medical workers on the front lines as health care workers continue to work tirelessly caring for patients during the coronavirus pandemic, the u.k. took a moment to show their support. on thursday, march 26, u.k. residents were asked to clap for the nhs (national health service) at 8…by sabienna bowman what to know if you're worried about your pet catching coronavirus this post is updated regularly to reflect the latest news and science around coronavirus, also known as covid-19. according to who, the coronavirus has killed over 20,800 people, and infected more than 462,000 people around the world. the virus has…by caroline burke “there is so much overwhelm”: how spiritual leaders are coping with the coronavirus crisis rev. dr. charlene han powell, executive pastor at fifth avenue presbyterian church in new york city, had been re-reading the gospels for lent when the coronavirus outbreak hit the united states. under orders to stay at home, she’s been returning to…by jennifer gerson i was writing this coronavirus essay when i learned my dad went to the hospital “don’t freak out. your father is in the hospital.” those words crashed directly into my sternum. breathing harder than i had during the tabata youtube video i finished 10 minutes earlier, i turned off the stovetop burner i’d lit to cook dinner.…by catherine thompson here's everything you need to know about the cost of a coronavirus test this post is updated regularly to reflect the latest news and science around coronavirus, also known as covid-19. from now-debunked tweets about $3,000 coronavirus tests, to reports that patients are being denied them, there's a lot of confusion…by kaitlyn wylde facetiming is better for your brain than a phone call, according to experts working from home can be rough: no contact with coworkers, no trips to the break room, just you, yourself, and your laptop. zoom calls or other kinds of video conferencing will be forever remembered as hallmarks of this era. but facetiming doesn't…by jr thorpe “i’ve gotten more edgy”: women with ocd explain how they cope with social distancing the coronavirus pandemic is affecting our daily lives in nearly every way. instead of going to parties or coffee shops, social distancing has us discovering the connective possibilities of zoom calls and the wonders of obscure streaming platforms.…by jr thorpe newsentertainmentbeautyfashionlifestylebookshealthwomen's history monthspread the lovevideo about usadvertisetermsprivacydmcacontact uscoupons