close mobile menu search this website home start here about resources podcast blog health beauty mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel reviews recipes beef recipes breakfast recipes condiment recipes dessert recipes drink recipes pork recipes poultry recipes salad recipes seafood recipes side dish recipes snack recipes soup & stew recipes newsletter shop menu skip to right header navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer simple answers for healthier families about start here resources podcast blog beauty health mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel recipes reviews shop search you are here: home » blog » natural home » healthy homemade dog treats healthy homemade dog treats february 1, 2020 — by katie wells reading time: 3 minthis post contains affiliate links. click here to read my affiliate policy. table of contents[hide][show] homemade dog treats with coconut oil why coconut oil? homemade dog treats tips for keeping dog treats fresh jump to recipe print recipe i’ve always been an animal person. i begged for years to get my first dog, holly, when i was five. we named her holly because she was born right before christmas and she was the best christmas present ever! holly passed away years ago, but now i get to watch my own children enjoy our golden pyrenees (a yellow lab/great pyrenees mix). daisy faithfully watches over the children when they play in the yard and lets the one-year-old sit on her and “pet” her. one day, my older kids asked if we could make “cookies for daisy” with ingredients she would like. i’d been mulling over the idea of a dog treat recipe for a while, and that was my motivation to finally try some easy, homemade treats. homemade dog treats with coconut oil we already give daisy (and our cats penelope & tiger) coconut oil daily but i wanted to figure out a way to incorporate it into this easy recipe. i stuck to vet-approved ingredients for dogs: sweet potato, coconut oil/coconut, eggs, coconut flour, and gelatin. really, any combination of those ingredients would work, but we found a particular ratio that daisy seems to love. we also figured out a cat treat recipe for penelope and tiger. my favorite part of this diy recipe is that it is a convenient way to give daisy her daily coconut oil and a fun treat for her. i also know exactly what is going into her dog biscuits. why coconut oil? many homemade treat recipes contain peanut butter, rice flour, all-purpose flour, or whole wheat flour. after we talked to our vet, we decided we wanted our biscuits to be grain-free and nut-free, but packed with healthy fats and veggies. i built my recipe around coconut oil. according to the american kennel club, coconut oil is beneficial to dogs. it is over 90% saturated fat and is an antioxidant that helps with mineral absorption. it has medium chain fatty acids (mcfas), which can provide energy and help create a glossy coat for your pet. mcfas also contain lauric acid, which has antimicrobial, antibacterial, and antifungal properties. while coconut oil is full of health benefits for dogs (and dog lovers too!), consult with your vet before using large quantities especially if your pet has specific health problems. one caution: too much coconut oil can cause doggie diarrhea or an upset stomach. we found that one treat a day was the perfect amount. print pin 4.47 from 13 votes homemade dog treats whip up a batch of healthy, inexpensive homemade dog treats with healthy fats for fido! prep time 15 minutes cook time 20 minutes author katie wells the ingredient links below are affiliate links. click here to read my affiliate policy. ingredients 2 medium sweet potatoes (cooked and cooled) ½ cup coconut flour ¼ cup gelatin powder (optional) ½ cup coconut oil (or bacon grease) 1 egg 1-2 tbsp water instructions preheat the oven to 350 degrees. combine all ingredients and mix until well incorporated. if needed, add a little extra coconut flour to get a dough that is slightly thinner than play dough. form into 1-inch balls and flatten with hand. we made “paw print” shapes with our fingers to make them cute (totally optional). you can also use a rolling pin to flatten the doggie dough to create a cutout shape with a cookie cutter if you have extra prep time. place on a baking sheet and bake for 20 minutes until slightly browned on the edges. remove from the oven and let cool completely before removing. notes store in an air-tight container in the fridge for several weeks or freeze for several months. tips for keeping dog treats fresh the last thing you want to see after spending time creating healthy snacks for your fur baby is mold growing on your yummy treats. since these treats are homemade, they do not contain preservatives. they will need to be stored in a cool, dry place to avoid spoiling or encouraging mold growth. here are some tips to keep treats dry, fresh, and ready to go: serve or store these doggie treats immediately after they cool. give your pup a sample and then put the rest of them away. i prefer to store a handful in a mason jar in the refrigerator. they will stay fresh for up to two weeks, but they usually don’t last that long! i stack the majority of these biscuits in an air-tight container, with a little natural parchment paper in between layers, and store them in the freezer. they will keep in the freezer for several months. i avoid plastic containers and prefer to use glass, silicone, or metal options. we give our dog one of these per day and she seems to approve! do you have any pets? what do you give them for treats? facebook tweet pin linkedin reddit category: natural home about katie wells katie wells, ctnc, mchc, founder and ceo of wellness mama and wellnesse, has a background in research, journalism, and nutrition. as a wife and mom of six, she turned to research and took health into her own hands to find answers to her health problems. wellnessmama.com is the culmination of her thousands of hours of research and all posts are medically reviewed and verified by the wellness mama research team. katie is also the author of the bestselling books the wellness mama cookbook and the wellness mama 5-step lifestyle detox. view all posts it shouldn’t be this hard to be healthy… join the wellness mama vip email newsletter to get the latest articles, recipes, podcasts, reader discounts, and free access to my quick start guide, 7 simple steps for healthier families, and 1 week real food meal plan! you may also enjoy these posts... homemade cat treats homemade coconut milk benefits of coconut oil for pets homemade dog food: real food for pets healthy onion rings recipe baked coconut shrimp with piña colada sauce previous post: « i just did a whole 30… where do i go from here? next post: indian mulligatawny soup (gluten-free, dairy optional) » reader interactions discussion (54 comments) lucille november 2, 2014 at 12:22 am any chance you have a cat version????? i’d love to make my cat some healthy treats that would be good for him. thanks katie, love your website! reply bart november 1, 2014 at 12:30 pm great recipe for our dog do you have any that would be healthy for horses? i usually just add plain dry gelatin to their feed otherwise we give them salad scraps, apples or carrots none of which delivers their cocoanut oil any suggestions? reply julia february 24, 2016 at 5:39 am looking forward to a reply from someone in this too!! reply fiona november 1, 2014 at 12:06 pm we have two golden retrievers and for years i have made liver brownies for them as treats. the amounts vary depending on whether you want a moister brownie or a drier one: about 1 lb beef liver, 1 egg, 1/4 cup water, 2 tbsp. coconut oil 1 med sweet potato or carrot, 1/2 to 1 1/2 cup flour – i use chickpea, brown rice or wholewheat, optional doggy vitamins or health blend. put them all in a blender in that order and process until everything is blended. looks absolutely disgusting. be sure to take the blender apart and wash well after, btw. pour into oiled square pan and bake @ 350 for about 30-40 mins. cut into squares when cooled and keep in the fridge. my dogs go crazy for these – mind you, they’re retrievers so they would probably eat the flour bag in the first place. reply lb january 2, 2015 at 11:55 am awww thanks for this organs should be part of dogs diet i love this idea 😉 reply julia february 24, 2016 at 5:38 am great idea! thanks! reply lisa november 1, 2014 at 9:04 am we give our dogs organic carrots as treats – especially before they go to bed! they love them! we have labs, so they like to eat anything and everything – and if they can swallow it (instead of chewing), all the better! but with the carrot, they do have to chew (which helps their gums), and the carrot is a large-sized carrot, so it takes about 30 seconds or so, but it’s a win/win for us! something healthy to give our dogs and they really love their treat! reply julia february 24, 2016 at 5:38 am great idea! thanks! reply kate april 15, 2016 at 9:45 pm that’s how i got through the puppy years…frozen carrots. better carrots than chair legs…the couch…the screen door…the corners of every wall in my house. it took a few weeks to find the carrots worked. 😉 great recipe! reply richard october 30, 2014 at 9:03 pm these are some pretty nifty treats and really healthy! great recipe. reply brittany october 30, 2014 at 7:56 pm do you think we could switch the amounts of coconut oil and bacon grease? we have several jars of bacon grease that we need to use up. my concern would be digestive trouble from too much bacon grease. my dog is 90 lbs so not a little guy 🙂 reply tracey bloom october 30, 2015 at 5:56 am bacon grease is not a good alternative as it is very high in trans fats and salt, and can lead to pancreatitis in dogs. its about as good for them as it is for them. its a shame really, as they just love it! reply jenny october 30, 2014 at 1:57 pm would this work as a cat treat? or do you have alternatives that you give your cats instead? reply heidi october 30, 2014 at 9:42 am what great timing! i was just thinking about making healthy treats for my dogs. i have a couple types of gelatin at home, but not the one you prefer. i have the green can for myself (as you recommended) and the little packets. would either of those work? reply chase october 23, 2019 at 9:06 pm i know this thread is a few years old but i came across it while looking for dog treat recipes that include spirulina….anyway….i felt the need to inform you that coconut oil is actually really bad for your pets health….topically its fine for fur and certain skin conditions but ingesting it opens them up to several health issues including chf, weight gain, atherosclerosis, and a fatty liver among others. same with bacon grease. if its not healthy for you its certainly not healthy for your pooch. signed a vet tech reply beth october 30, 2014 at 9:08 am we just got our puppy a few weeks ago. she’s a golden doodle. sweet & wonderful. the kids adore her! i love the idea of making our own puppy treats. (it’s hard to find treats w/ ingredients i’m willing to feed her.) i can’t wait to try this recipe. one question: i already have great lakes gelatin at home. is there a reason i should use the gelatin you linked to this recipe instead? is it formulated differently? reply michelle october 30, 2014 at 8:53 am haha! i love the picture! it definitely seems like she’s enjoying those treats, and i can’t wait to try these for my own fur baby. thanks for an amazing post, yet again. you’re pretty much amazing! reply newer comments » show more comments join the conversation... cancel reply your email address will not be published. please read the comment policy. recipe rating your comment your real name * your email address * don't subscribeallreplies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. you must enable javascript to be able to comment to leave a comment please enable javascript in your browser settings! footer sitemap start here comment policy affiliate disclosure newsletter privacy policy terms of service full disclaimer promo guidelines contact site footer the information on this website has not been evaluated by the fda and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease. by accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the terms of service, full disclaimer, privacy policy, affiliate disclosure, and comment policy. content may not be reproduced in any form. ads provided by cafemedia family & parenting network. displayed ads do not constitute endorsement or recommendation by wellness mama. copyright © 2006–2020 wellness mama® · all rights reserved · sitemap