health tips for taxi drivers – lifestyle by ps
  home sweatshirts t-shirts blog expand submenu blog collapse submenu blog fashion fitness grooming log in create account cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us your cart close cart site navigation home sweatshirts t-shirts blog fashion fitness grooming log in search cart cart health tips for taxi drivers mar 27, 2020 as a taxi driver, you do not necessarily have to hit the gym regularly to stay fit. there are several exercises and workouts that you could do beside or inside your cab and which, if integrated into your day’s schedule, can positively impact your health. in our post today, we will be sharing a couple of exercises that you could perform right from beside or inside your cab. we will also be sharing advice on healthier and convenient choices to make. advice on how to stay healthy as a taxi driver as a taxi operator, you must eat well as your diet affects not only your health but also your performance while at work. consider carrying home-made drinks and meals in the morning as you start your day. while taxis aren’t cool enough to store food for extended periods, especially not that summer is coming, you can still remedy the situation by keeping your food in a cool bag with two or three ice packs. doing so will not only save you money, but it will also give you more control over what you eat. eating food that you have prepared means that you get to consume the essential nutrients you need instead of an excess of saturated fats and salt that is found in fast foods. while at it, consider throwing a few bottles of drinking water in the bag. when the body becomes dehydrated, brain functions are negatively affected. according to some studies, when you are dehydrated, you are more prone to making the same mistakes drunk drivers make while behind the wheel. this makes the chances of a crash higher and so can impact insurance. staying healthier means saving on insurance so compare and save on taxi insurance. since taxi driving involves a lot of sitting, make sure you get up and move about ever so often. many health risks are related to sitting down for extended periods. according to experts, you should make sure you take a break from sitting every thirty minutes. while this might not be possible if you are stuck in traffic or have customers in your cab who want to get across town, it is something worth keeping in mind. set a reminder to get out of the car, stretch your legs, and get some fresh air, even if it just for a few minutes. on the other hand, you could give the five basic exercises (5bx) plan a go if you’re male, or the ten basic exercises (xbx) plan if you are female. these plans were made for the royal canadian air force and are designed to be done in short periods and do not require the use of equipment. the exercises are composed of one aerobic exercise and several stretching exercises. the good thing about these exercises is that you can perform them besides your taxi if you are somewhere less public. tags: health tips for taxi drivers share share on facebook tweet tweet on twitter pin it pin on pinterest our site is built on shopify. you can too build a money making store. start your store on shopify click here to try shopify for free (14 days free trial with this link) more from the blog choosing the best type of gloves to protect your hands ... read more men's guide to anniversary celebrations ... read more 6 secrets to a happy relationship ... read more ← back to lifestyle disclosure : lifestyle by ps is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us facebook twitter pinterest instagram google plus © 2020, lifestyle by ps ecommerce software by shopify paypal inr aud cad eur gbp usd search