menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies health health browse health topics close endometriosis the hs skin you're in contraceptives mental health anxiety depression acne pcos diabetes crohn's disease hiv wellness lupus this is your choice: how planned parenthood helped me take back control over my health and my body brianna kwasnik 13 truths you need to know about hpv amy horton a goodbye letter to my iud lauren strillacci why taking control of my reproductive health makes me a happier woman kristin rattigan “i’ve wasted my life telling my mind to fuck off.” kara eva schlegl 10 things i wish i could tell my 18-year-old self about birth control wellness christina donati everything you need to know about your psoas, the muscle that’s storing your deepest trauma healing brianna wiest read this if you feel like you’re doing all the right things, but still feel anxious all the time mental health brianna wiest latest health articles 8 personal truths i learned about antidepressants mental health emily heron “ they take 6-8 weeks for a therapeutic effect. that’s a very long time when you’re feeling so acutely awful. anxiety brings out the worst in me, and that’s okay mental health megan dennehy “ i don’t recollect when i wrote this list or why, but it stung like nettles to read. the piece consists of hard truths that even now i struggle to approach. 12 things to do while stuck in quarantine coronavirus ashley marie “ stay safe and healthy out there. hidradenitis suppurativa hidradenitis suppurativa thought catalog “ these stories about covid-19 need to be heard coronavirus kelly peacock “ we need to understand the people who have been affected by the virus and how–no matter who you are, what your age is, or what your health is like–anyone is at risk. 20+ coronavirus slang words to drop in the coronapocalypse group chat coronavirus emily madriga “ coronered: when everyone else in your house has covid-19 but you (so far). when your anxiety makes it impossible to focus mental health holly riordan “ you aren’t able to concentrate on the right thing. all of your attention is being dragged in a different direction. you’re allowed to be disappointed 2020 isn’t what you dreamed holly riordan “ you’re allowed to be disappointed about cancelling the date you’ve been excited about for weeks, or the trip you’ve been planning for months, or the wedding you’ve been planning for years. these 8 little things can help you stay mentally healthy during coronavirus mental health molly brierley “ in a time where physical illness is at the forefront of everyone’s concern, it’s hard to give yourself permission to worry about mental illness as well. if you’re nervous about trying therapy for the first time, read this mental health kathleen reynoso “ therapy—a scary word for some, helpful to others, and a life changing experience nonetheless. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.