home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog shredded pork eggs benedict recipe – keto and gluten free september 16, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment if you're looking for a new keto or gluten free recipe, you've gotta try this awesome shredded pork eggs benedict recipe. this recipe is so simple. you only need three ingredients and less than an hour from fridge to table! ingredients hormel pork tenderloin (18.4 oz)one half avocadoone egg instructions using your instant pot, throw a hormel pork tenderloin … [read more...] cute halloween treats october 12, 2017 by erin weiss leave a comment cute halloween treats that are easy to make and will be a hit at your next halloween party! scroll through the 20+ halloween recipes and feel free to pin any to remember for later! mummy pops {let's dish} … [read more...] pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 best fall drinks & cocktails october 1, 2017 by erin weiss leave a comment make sure to hover over this image and share/pin to pinterest to remember these for later! … [read more...] pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 make your own starbucks protein bistro box – so easy! september 20, 2016 by erin weiss 1 comment i am a huge fan of the quick, grab and go starbucks protein bistro box because it's filling and the macros aren't too bad nutritionally. the only thing i don't love is the price of $4.95. that means if you had one every day of the work week, it would cost you around $25 per week. seems a bit pricey to me! i wanted to recreate this starbucks protein bistro box and make … [read more...] the soup diet plus 10 healthy soup recipes to try! june 9, 2015 by erin weiss 2 comments as i was on the treadmill today, i was watching an episode of the doctors. i'm always a bit hesitant of shows that promote a lot of different products and diets, but today something caught my eye and i wanted to research it a bit more and do a post about it. today's topic was all about the soup diet. what is a soup diet? it's as simple as it sounds. it's a diet where you … [read more...] sweet potato tots quiche recipe april 8, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment i was grocery shopping yesterday after work and found some sweet potato bites that i really wanted to try. i decided to create a recipe with them last night and it turned out pretty yummy! introducing my sweet potato tots quiche! this is a super simple recipe that only takes a few minutes of prep time. that's my kinda recipe. :) sweet potato tots quiche … [read more...] cheesy and spicy sausage melt recipe march 12, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment for the past week, i've been making a new recipe that i can easily say i'm obsessed with at the moment. i've eaten it every night. every.damn.night. introducing....my cheesy and spicy sausage melt recipe. i've been counting my macros lately and i have a tendency to eat a ton of carbs during the day. when it comes time for dinner, i realize i need to catch up with my … [read more...] grinch fruit kabobs recipe december 18, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment can't figure out what to bring to your christmas party? here's an absolutely adorable idea that i'm making christmas morning. it's a cute and a healthy option. grinch fruit kabobs (hint: hover over the image to post to pinterest to remember this idea for the future!) ingredients mini marshmallows green grapes bananas - peeled and … [read more...] healthy bacon egg & cheese muffin recipe october 3, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment everyone loves the classic egg mcmuffin but they are just so darn unhealthy. i decided to make a clean version and i have to admit....it's pretty dang good!! yay! introducing erin's breakfast muffins!! hover over the image below to pin it to pinterest so you remember to try this recipe later! ingredients: 1 whole egg 2 egg whites 2 healthy life multi-grain … [read more...] the most delicious clean burrito you’ll ever eat july 3, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i made the most incredible burrito recently. i've been having one every day since. if you know me at all, you know i love mexican food. well...when i can find a clean way to prepare mexican food i'm like a little kid on christmas morning!! also note that i'm an extremely picky eater and usually my food ends up with no flavor...well that's not the case this time. this little … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in