welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog from body to brain – 5 ways food improves your overall health published on: apr 05, 2017 by clare collins 24169 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post you have probably heard time and time again that you need to eat more fruits and vegetables, more wholegrains and less processed food. but, do you really know why? a lot of focus is placed on the need to eat healthy in order to lose weight, and with good reason. however, there are many other benefits to eating healthy, other than weight loss that you... read more about from body to brain – 5 ways food improves your overall health fake news to the future of obamacare: moocs address today’s pressing issues published on: mar 23, 2017 by rachel lapal 4705 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post today’s social and political climate is provoking strong conversations about american democracy, fact-checking, women’s rights and healthcare access – just to name a few. these moments are opportunities to not only engage, but also to educate and ensure that people everywhere can learn about pertinent current events so that they, too, can form their own points of view and become informed global citizens. in response, the... read more about fake news to the future of obamacare: moocs address today’s pressing issues 6 courses to improve your health and wellness published on: mar 09, 2017 by sara reich 9959 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post when it comes to your overall well-being, physical health and mental wellness are huge pieces of the puzzle. taking the time to establish healthy habits can benefit you in countless ways, such as improving your mood, reducing the risk of disease, boosting your energy, and increasing the length of your life. whether you want to develop healthier eating habits, explore the positive effects of exercise, or find new... read more about 6 courses to improve your health and wellness edx welcomes the university system of maryland published on: jul 27, 2016 by johannes heinlein 5772 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are pleased to announce that the university system of maryland has joined edx as a contributing charter member. the new partnership will leverage the university system of maryland’s experience with online innovation and the technologies of edx platform to improve learning outcomes for the edx global community. the new partnership brings a university system comprising 12 institutions to edx — including bowie state university,... read more about edx welcomes the university system of maryland health, biology and architecture. courses starting soon on edx! published on: feb 05, 2016 by monil shah 4988 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn how to effectively train your body, what the most violent things in our universe are, or how to better present data using excel. edx offers courses from top universities and organizations to help you gain the skills and knowledge you need to be successful. have you ever wondered, “what is microbiology?” or wondered what courses a student should take to become a data scientist? find the course for you and enroll today!... read more about health, biology and architecture. courses starting soon on edx! the man behind the mooc: a new ihi-harvardx online course on quality improvement in health care published on: jan 20, 2016 by don goldman 4438 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this post originally ran on the institute for healthcare improvement blog and is written by the course instructor for harvard’s practical improvement science in health care: a roadmap for getting results which starts today, january 20th! the first thing i have to say is that i didn’t come up with the title for this blog post. i would never choose something so self-promotional, but my editor on the course, mike... read more about the man behind the mooc: a new ihi-harvardx online course on quality improvement in health care health, climate change and data analysis. courses starting soon on edx! published on: jan 08, 2016 by justine goulart 4584 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn how to live longer, how to properly proofread an essay or how to know if the water you are drinking is safe. with over 800 courses offered in a wide variety of subject areas, edx helps you better understand the world around you and improves your everyday life. enroll in a course today! health, data, and math. new courses from edx! published on: nov 27, 2015 by justine goulart 5667 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post enhance your html 5 skills, discover new features and tools in excel – one of the most popular data software programs, analyze, discuss famous literary characters scrooge and tiny tim, or learn more about the recent ebola outbreak in west africa. edx’s mission is not only to provide high-quality education, but also to offer a wide range of subjects and skills you are looking for! find the right course for you... read more about health, data, and math. new courses from edx! technology in mental healthcare published on: nov 03, 2015 by tom van daele 5820 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post kuleuvenx trends in e-psychology starts on november 17. enroll today! i was probably about six years old when i got my hands on the very first home computer that my parents bought. it was a top-of-the-line model with an integrated screen, a floppy disk reader and a whole lot of ram… like 4 megabytes. it proved to be a wonderful piece of technology, which was... read more about technology in mental healthcare learn about superheroes, digital healthcare and flying robots on edx! published on: may 01, 2015 by mukta g 4157 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post did you know there are 11 courses starting this week on edx? check out some facts about each course below. interested in finding out more? enroll in a course that sparks your interest today! page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close