skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: heating and cooling 2020 new furnace replacement and installation welcomia/shutterstock furnace buying guide furnaces play an essential role in keeping your home warm when the weather outside turns cold. but in order to save money on repairs and energy bills, it’s important to replace your furnace at the right time. today’s… by the freshome.com team on march 13, 2020 in heating and cooling furnace repair: common problems and how to fix them joyseulay/shutterstock even with the right unit and proper installation, there’s always the chance that your furnace will malfunction. while some problems are caused by normal wear and tear, most can be traced to inconsistent maintenance. furnace issues can wreak havoc in your… by the freshome.com team on march 13, 2020 in heating and cooling radiator heat common problems & simple fixes image: breadmaker/shutterstock rather than forcing heated air through a system of ducts like a conventional furnace, a radiator uses steam or hot water to warm your home through a series of pipes. radiators were invented in the mid-1800s and many older homes still have them. cost-effective and… by the freshome.com team on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling nordyne heating and cooling image:breadmaker/shutterstock nordyne, also known as nortek global hvac, is a manufacturer of heating and cooling products. the company creates innovative and thoughtfully designed equipment. they also value the input that they receive from customers when considering their solutions. from comm… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling heat pump vs air conditioner living in a state with a moderate or variable climate means having multiple options for how you want to tackle the seasonal changes in weather. most commonly, you’ll find yourself debating over heat pumps and air conditioners. air conditioners are devices that absorb warm indoor air and supply… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling heat pump troubleshooting and repair clean off your hvac system every time you see that it’s collected dirt and debris. image: shutterstock/ christian delbert a heat pump is one of the essential units in your home or office that operates throughout the year to cool or heat the space. while… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling comfortmaker heating and cooling image: john royal/shutterstock comfortmaker heating and cooling comfortmaker air conditioning & heating has been in business for 100 years. the company provides an array of heating and cooling products, such as air conditioners, furnaces, packaged systems and heat pumps. its parent company, unit… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling heat pump vs furnace heat pump vs furnace if you’re in the market for home heating, you have two main choices: a heat pump or a furnace. at one time, this was a fairly simple decision based on climate. if you lived in a region with mild weather, a heat pump was a better… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling ductless ac buying guide ductless air conditioning units are a great alternative to installing new ductwork in older homes, which can cost upwards of $5,000 for larger homes. while ductless ac units are more costly compared to central cooling systems, they are an effective way of saving on home’s energy costs, as… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling goodman heating and cooling your return grills, or the covers on your vents, could be to blame for your a/c issues. image: mile atanasov/shutterstock goodman heating and cooling since 1982, goodman heating and cooling has produced quality, american-built home comfort technology, selling reliable air conditioners, heat pumps, a… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling 1 2 … 6 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss