hecklerspray grown up gossip & internet villainy brad pitt attended jennifer aniston’s 50th birthday party february 11th, 2019 by krysta fitzpatrick jennifer aniston threw an epic 50th birthday party on saturday night, and the entire thing was a who’s who of people who used to bang each other. jen’s famous ex, john mayer, was in attendance, as was his famous ex, katy perry, with her current boyfriend orlando bloom. however, the most interesting ex to attend the party was none other than brad pitt himself. jen’s ex-husband, who famously left her to bone angelina jolie and build a child army back in 2005 was amazingly at jen’s party, which lead many people to get excitement boners over the potential that these two might reconnect. continue reading... which sprouse twin is hotter?: an investigation february 9th, 2019 by krysta fitzpatrick i have been writing this blog since october 2013, and if there is one thing i’m damn proud of, it’s all my hard-hitting investigations. i have researched bella thorne’s descent into lot lizardness, paris hilton’s bff curse, the 6-degrees of justin bieber’s sex partners, and, of course, the many versions of kylie jenner. tonight, i bring you a new investigation. one that, honestly, had kind of shocked me, given that up until a few months ago, i didn’t consider this an investigation at all. but now, here where are, asking the tough question: which sprouse twin is hotter? continue reading... justin bieber was really into xanax and sex before marriage february 7th, 2019 by krysta fitzpatrick stars, they’re just like us! and in the case of justin bieber, that means, just like most modern day adults, he’s really into sedatives and casual sex. well, at least he was before marrying hailey baldwin. biebs and hailey graced the cover of vogue looking like the third hottest couple in any north american high school, and filled us in on their holy union. in the interview, biebs admitted that for a long time he was super into xanax and fucking randoms because he didn’t feel good about himself. you know, pretty normal early-20s shit (that isn’t sarcasm and you know it). continue reading... pete davidson upgrades to kate beckinsale february 3rd, 2019 by krysta fitzpatrick what a fucking year for pete davidson! i mean, i like the kid a lot, but i really didn’t see any of this shit coming! first, the guy, who kind of looks like a cross between a young steve buscemi and that cartoon lizard johnny depp played, rango, or something, gets engaged to the super hot ariana grande. now he’s dating the fucking goddess queen that is kate beckinsale? what is going on??? after ariana dumped pete, i assumed he’d definitely get another cute girl, but probably not someone as hot or famous as ariana grande. well, pete davidson went out and proved me wrong by dating someone who makes ariana grande look like a jersey shore reject. continue reading... the golden globes sucked january 7th, 2019 by krysta fitzpatrick the golden globes happened last night and, while i stayed up and watched the entire fucking thing, it was all boring as fuck and i’m pretty sure sandra bullock in bird box gave out half the awards since half of the winners made no fucking sense. just a heads up: i’m not going to go through a list of the winners, because a) you can find them somewhere else online pretty easily, and b) i don’t want to bore anyone to death. basically a bunch of shit won that i haven’t seen or don’t even want to see anyway. continue reading... damon dash says jay-z’s support of r. kelly ruined relationship january 6th, 2019 by krysta fitzpatrick as a die hard jay-z fan, this is a disappointing story for me to write. i do take into consideration that this story is technically 17-years-old, so i can hope and assume that jay-z has grown substantially as a person since 2002 (his interviews and music suggest he has), but it’s still disappointing to say the least. jay’s former roc-a-fella records partner, damon dash, recently say down for an interview and discussed lifetime’s new documentary, “surviving r. kelly”. in it, he said that jay’s 2002 collaborative record and tour with kelly, “best of both worlds”, was what ultimately ended their business partnership and friendship. continue reading... kim and kanye expecting baby number four! january 4th, 2019 by krysta fitzpatrick i take a break for one fucking week, and kim kardashian goes ahead and gets another surrogate knocked up. just my fucking luck. multiple sources (ok, us weekly and people) are confirming that kim kardashian and kanye west, who’s daughter chicago will be one this month, are expecting baby number four via surrogate in may. the sources have also revealed that the new kimye baby will be a boy, which was completely planned, since kim and kanye have been spending thousands of dollars on picking which gender their child is going to be ever since kim had saint. continue reading... miley cyrus and liam hemsworth get married december 27th, 2018 by krysta fitzpatrick it was an extra merry christmas for miley cyrus and liam hemsworth this year. after dating on and off for 10 years and being engaged twice, the two finally tied the knot on december 23rd. we don’t know too much about the wedding, other than that it was a small and intimate affair that took place at the couple’s tennessee home with a few family and friends. the couple posted some sweet black and white photos on instagram, and liam can we seen wearing a casual tux and white sneakers, while miley wore a vivienne westwood gown. continue reading... hecklerspray advent, day 25: the five best music videos of 2018 december 26th, 2018 by krysta fitzpatrick so, i know this is a day late, but yesterday was christmas and i got two kids and enjoy my evening wine, so, you know, it is what it is. anyway, as someone who grew up in the 90s, i have a deep appreciation for the music video. while music videos don’t really get played on tv anymore, many artists still put a beautiful amount of effort into their videos, and this year we saw some of the best music videos i’ve seen in ages. so, to celebrate this christmas, i’d like to share with you what i think are the top five music videos of 2018. continue reading... hecklerspray advent, day 24: selling is service december 24th, 2018 by krysta fitzpatrick hey bitches! bet you thought this blog would be late because it’s christmas eve. wrong! i’m here, and i’m a little tipsy and merry fucking christmas! my 24th post might be random, because i don’t know what’s big on the internet, but a store in alaska made this “selling is service” promotional video that’s kind of become an internet thing, and it’s honestly become the best part of my year. i won’t lie, there is a new formatting to the blogs now and i’m not 100% sure how to post videos, but here i go trying, if it doesn’t work, google the “selling is service” video and watch is immediatley. this is my christmas gift to you guys. continue reading... « previous page next page » a mediocre rundown of the 2019 oscars so the jodyn and tristan thing is probably true tristan thompson allegedly cheats on khloe kardashian with jordyn woods lil xan is having a kid and i can't deal with that katy perry and orlando bloom are engaged blogroll rumorfix hecklerspray.com copyright © 2019 · nude celebs · terms · privacy · dmca · contact