technology | economy | startups | personal finance | events newsletters search for: submit observer politics national international new york new jersey editorials national security arts theater visual art dance opera lifestyle fashion celebrity food & drink home design real estate travel business technology personal finance startups internet culture media entertainment tv movies music books health psychology relationships fitness nutrition videos events newsletters how a hedge funder scored a 10,000% return amid coronavirus market meltdown by sissi cao • 03/26/20 12:04pm bill ackman reaped a nearly 10,000 percent return on his hedging positions amid the coronavirus market rout. sylvain gaboury/patrick mcmullan via getty images in the past few weeks, the coronavirus-triggered market meltdown has cost america’s top one percent dearly. per bloomberg‘s count, the world’s 500 richest people lost a combined $1.3 trillion since the beginning of 2020, after recent stock selloffs obliterated all of earlier months’ gains. but one smart anomaly, hedge fund billionaire bill ackman, manages to profit handsomely in a time when everyone is losing money. at the beginning of march, ackman revealed that his investment firm, pershing square capital management, had bought $27 million worth of credit protection on global investment-grade and high-yield credit indexes in late february to limit portfolio loss amid coronavirus-spurred market volatility. see also: bill gates on coronavirus vs. economy: ‘there is really no middle ground’ the timing of those investments couldn’t have been better. major stock indexes began their free fall on march 6 and hit the rocket bottom on monday. the same day, ackman finished unwinding those hedges and reaped $2.6 billion in proceeds. “the proceeds of the hedges have enabled us to become a substantially larger shareholder of a number of our portfolio companies, and to add some new investments, all at deeply discounted prices,” ackman wrote in a letter to shareholders on wednesday. pershing square’s major stakes include agilent technologies, berkshire hathaway, hilton worldwide holdings, lowe’s and restaurant brands international. despite winnings on the investment front, ackman is deeply concerned with the government’s response (or the lack thereof) to the covid-19 pandemic. a vocal supporter for extreme quarantine measures, ackman has repeatedly advocated for a 30-day nationwide lockdown to combat the deadly virus. “a coordinated federal-led shutdown for 30 days and then a gradual reopening with testing testing testing so we can kill the virus when it reappears,” the investor tweeted on monday in reply to a controversial post by former goldman sachs ceo lloyd blankfein calling on americans to return to work in a few weeks. a coordinated federal-led shutdown for 30 days and then a gradual reopening with testing testing testing so we can kill the virus when it reappears https://t.co/ytjglaig1d — bill ackman (@billackman) march 23, 2020 “the virus can’t survive without a host,” ackman explained in a separate tweet the same day. “with a coordinated national shutdown for all but essential services, manufacturing, retail, etc. for 30 days, the virus is largely obliterated. when the economy reopens, we test widely so that we can quarantine outbreaks when they reappear.” his suggestion was echoed by bill gates, who proposed a six-week “extreme shutdown” in an interview on tuesday. filed under: business, personal finance, bill gates, coronavirus, lloyd blankfein, covid-19, berkshire hathaway, hedge fund, pershing square see also: a virtual reality app for galleries and collectors opens up a new art buying experience observer politics entertainment lifestyle arts health contact about advertise newsletters sitemap privacy terms powered by wordpress.com vip we noticed you're using an ad blocker. we get it: you like to have control of your own internet experience. but advertising revenue helps support our journalism. to read our full stories, please turn off your ad blocker.  we'd really appreciate it. how do i whitelist observer? how do i whitelist observer? below are steps you can take in order to whitelist observer.com on your browser: for adblock: click the adblock button on your browser and select don't run on pages on this domain. for adblock plus on google chrome: click the adblock plus button on your browser and select enabled on this site. for adblock plus on firefox: click the adblock plus button on your browser and select disable on observer.com. then reload the page