find a course sign up coursera blog degrees for business for educators product news stories helping universities and colleges take learning online in response to the coronavirus march 12, 2020 72 share share on facebook share share on twittertweet share on linkedin share send email mail by jeff maggioncalda, ceo coursera the spread of the coronavirus (covid-19) is the most serious global health security threat in decades. in many countries, restrictions imposed by government agencies have disrupted daily routines for millions, including students. many universities in the impacted regions have suspended face-to-face seminars, closed campuses, and are scrambling to find a solution to minimize disruption for their students. we are fortunate to have university and industry partners, who have been at the forefront of responding to the challenges humanity has faced from time to time. inspired by their support and consistent with our mission of serving learners everywhere, we are launching a global effort to assist universities and colleges seeking to offer online courseware in response to the coronavirus. starting today, we’ll provide every impacted university in the world with free access to our course catalogue through coursera for campus. universities can sign up to provide their enrolled students with access to more than 3,800 courses and 400 specializations from coursera’s top university and industry partners. these institutions will have access until july 31, 2020, after which we plan to provide month-to-month extensions depending on prevailing risk assessments. students who enroll on or before july 31 will continue to have access until sept. 30, 2020. over the past few weeks, duke university has been using coursera for campus to serve impacted students at their duke kunshan campus in china. this effort has been swiftly adopted by students and widely recognized by the broader community. we believe that coursera for campus can be an effective resource to help all higher education institutions respond to the impact of coronavirus. as a global community of educators, we are honored to be serving fellow institutions and student communities during this crisis. over the next few days, we will also hold webinars and share more resources, including experiences from our partner community, to help institutions looking to transition online during this crisis. stay tuned. for more information, please visit https://www.coursera.org/coronavirus. 72 share share on facebook share share on twittertweet share on linkedin share send email mail related articles building practical skills through hands-on projects novartis extends coursera to friends and family in response to covid-19 welcoming dr. betty vandenbosch as our new chief content officer tagged in: coursera provides universal access to the world’s best education, partnering with top universities and organizations to offer courses online. © 2020 coursera inc. all rights reserved. coursera about leadership careers catalog professional certificates mastertrack™ certificates degrees for enterprise for campus for government community learners partners developers beta testers translators tech blog connect blog facebook linkedin twitter instagram more terms privacy help accessibility press contact directory affiliates