menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login helpful free resources people often find their way to tiny buddha when they are struggling with something difficult and potentially overwhelming. many may feel lost, alone, and uncertain if they can be helped, or where to turn. if this sounds like you, you may want to utilize one of the free resources listed below. you may also want to join the tiny buddha forums to gain insight, support and encouragement from the whole community. you are not alone—we are here to help! find support for: alcoholism and addiction anxiety/panic disorder cancer caregivers codependency depression domestic violence eating disorders gambling addiction grief infertility mental illness miscarriage post-traumatic stress disorder sexual abuse self-injury stress suicidal thoughts & coping with loss through suicide support for alcoholism and addiction addiction center a comprehensive addiction information hub; provides reviews of treatment centers to help you choose the best one for you. rehabcenter.net the web’s most comprehensive guide to quality rehab centers and addiction treatment. connects you to treatment based on you and your needs. ncaad alcohol abuse self test / ncaad drug abuse self test these simple self-tests from the national council on alcoholism and drug dependence are intended to help you determine if you need help with drug addiction or alcoholism. recovery.org informative site offering videos, forums, helplines, support groups, and blogs. sober recover forum a community forum for those recovering from alcoholism and drug addiction. rethinking drinking worksheets and calculators tools to check your drinking patterns, track your drinking, and plan for change. about my drinking and other drug use screening tool allows you to compare your usage to others who’ve completed the screening; also, provides you with information on the financial and health impact of your current drinking levels and rates your risk of alcohol-related harm. questions to ask treatment programs a comprehensive booklet that will help you decide which treatment program is right for a child or young adult struggling with drug addiction or alcoholism. continuing care a parent’s guide to your teen’s recovery from substance abuse. free addiction help line 1-866-925-7411 provides free assistance and answers to those who have questions about drug and alcohol addiction. drug & alcohol treatment hotline 1-800-662-help support for anxiety/panic disorder anxiety and depression association of america offers help with finding treatment options and support groups in your area. anxiety center self test take this short self-quiz to see if you have an anxiety disorder. healthy place panic attack test a test to help determine whether you are suffering from panic attacks and should seek professional help. national institute of mental health offers insight into causes, signs and symptoms, who is at risk, diagnosis, treatments, and living with both panic disorder and anxiety disorder. anxiety forum a global community for anxiety sufferers. american psychological association site includes research on anxiety, getting help, psychology news, and helpful books pertaining to the illness. psychology tools worksheets for panic cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt) worksheets to help you deal with panic. anxiety bc complete home toolkit a resource of simple, step-by-step instructions on how to deal with specific issues related to anxiety, and activity forms to help with fears, worries, obsessive thinking, and sleep disturbances. panic disorder information hotline 1– 800-64-panic support for cancer cancer support community an international non-profit dedicated to providing support, education, and hope to people affected by cancer. cancer support helpline 1-888-793-9355. dana farber cancer institute support groups, geared to specific cancers and methods of treatment, give patients the opportunity to meet and share information and moral support. cancer hope network matches cancer patients or family members with trained volunteer cancer survivors who have undergone and recovered from a similar cancer experience. cancer.net provides timely, comprehensive information to help patients and families make informed health care decisions. cancer prediction tools researchers at memorial sloan kettering have pioneered the use of prediction tools known as nomograms to help patients and physicians make important treatment decisions. 1 up on cancer features a listing of freebies and discounts for cancer patients. happy chemo also offers freebies, discounts, and resources for cancer patients. 4th angel the 4th angel mentoring program offers free, one-on-one, confidential outreach and support from someone who has successfully made the same journey you are about to begin—the journey towards recovery. american cancer society hotline 1-800-227-2345 support for caregivers family caregiver allegiance caregiver connect offers a state-by-state resource locator, information on clinical trials, and stories from other caregivers. caregiving.com a community of family caregivers sharing stories, support, and suggestions; offers blogs, forums, groups, quizzes, podcasts, videos, webinar, and coaching caregiver action network non-profit organization providing education, peer support, and resources to family caregivers across the country free of charge. caregiverstress.com resources to help you care for your senior loved one while helping you spot signs of stress on your emotional and stressful caregiving journey. caring.com offers caregiving tips, advice, and support through online support groups. eldercare locator a public service of the u.s. administration on aging connecting you to services for older adults and their families. aging care caregiver support forum a place where you can ask questions, give answers, exchange messages, and get support from other family caregivers who understand exactly what you’re going through. aarp caregiving resource center information, tools, and tips for caregivers. duke family support program’s toolkit for alzheimer’s a toolkit to help you care for a loved on with a memory disorder. caregiver’s library offers articles, forms, checklists, and helpful tools. support for codependency co-dependents anonymous a fellowship of men and women whose common purpose is to develop healthy relationships. offers a list of patterns and characteristics as a tool to aid in self-evaluation. online coda a twelve-step recovery group that offers scheduled meetings in a chat room, and a forum message board. health boards a message board to share your experiences with codependency. codependency self-assessment test a short quiz to help you ascertain if you struggle with codependency. assignments to jump start codependency recovery information, affirmations, and exercise to help you overcome codependency. support for depression psych central depression screening test brief online automated quiz to help you determine if you may need to see a mental health professional for diagnosis and treatment of depression, or for tracking your depression on a regular basis. depression forums offers a caring, safe environment for members to talk to their peers about depression, anxiety, mood disorders, medications, therapy, and recovery. depression understood offers forums, links, and chat rooms for peer support. helpguide.org coping tips to overcome depression. mantherapy.org tools and resources helpful in treating men’s depression and other mental health issues. depression and bipolar support alliance education, wellness tools, and peer support. psychology tools worksheets for depression cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt) worksheets to help you deal with depression. families for depression awareness a national nonprofit organization helping families recognize and cope with depression and bipolar disorder to get people well and prevent suicides. postpartum support international dedicated to helping women suffering from perinatal mood and anxiety disorders, including postpartum depression. contact crisis line 1–972-233-2233 support for domestic violence psych central domestic violence screening quiz helps you determine if you might need professional help to deal with a domestic violence or abusive relationship situation. national network to end domestic violence works to address and respond to needs identified by victims by providing tools that strengthen advocacy and help change the way society responds to domestic violence. domestic violence resources by state an abuse, rape, and domestic violence aid and resource collection. battered women’s justice project offers training, technical assistance, and consultation on the most promising practices of the criminal and civil justice systems in addressing domestic violence. women’s law provides legal information and support to victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. battered men a site for the 5.365 million men who are battered each year. the survivors forum for women who have been affected by domestic abuse to share their experiences and to offer support to one another. psych forums for domestic violence community forums where those affected by domestic violence can share stories, seek guidance, and offer support. domestic violence hotline 1- 800-799-7233 domestic violence hotline/child abuse 1- 800-4-a-child (800 422 4453) support for eating disorders national eating disorder association provides programs and services to give families the support they need to find answers for these life-threatening illnesses. something fishy offers information, an interactive bulletin board where you can read letters from others who are suffering with, or in recovery from, an eating disorder; interactive online recovery games, and more. casa palmera eating disorder self-assessment the questionnaire will tell you whether or not you think you behave in a way that indicates that you have tendencies toward anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa. around the dinner table support forum for parents and caregivers of anorexia, bulimia, and other eating disorder patients. eating disorder referral and information center most comprehensive and easiest to search database of eating disorder professionals in the world. mirror mirror education and support for anyone struggling with an eating disorder. national association of anorexia nervosa and other eating disorders a non-profit dedicated to the prevention and alleviation of eating disorders. eating disorder hope offers education, support, and inspiration to eating disorder sufferers, their loved ones, and eating disorders treatment providers. eating disorders anonymous a fellowship of individuals who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other that they may solve their common problems and help others to recover from their eating disorders. feast (families empowered and supporting treatment of eating disorders) an international organization of and for parents and caregivers to help loved ones recover from eating disorders by providing information and mutual support, promoting evidence-based treatment, and advocating for research and education to reduce the suffering associated with eating disorders. eating disorders helpline 1-800-931-2237 support for gambling addiction national coalition on problem gambling offers resources, screening tools, and help state-by-state. gamblers anonymous a fellowship of men and women who share their experience, strength, and hope with each other so that they may solve their common problem and help others to recover from a gambling problem. 21 steps to stop gambling self-assessment quiz your self-administered gambling check-up. this short quiz asks about your gambling related activities and thoughts. gambling helper an online community, featuring forums and blogs for support and encouragement. gambling support group online gambling support group, 1365 members strong and growing. posts from not only people fighting gambling addition, but from family members as well. gambling therapy online peer support groups for text based “real time” group support from others who have been where you are, run by trained and knowledgeable facilitators. women helping women news and support for female gamblers in recovery. gam talk an online community for people with gambling issues to share their experiences and ideas. safe harbor compulsive gambling hub posting board and chat rooms to share your gambling recovery experiences. national council on problem gambling hotline 1-800-522-4700 support for grief grief share free recovery groups that meet weekly around the world; meetings include seminars with experts, support group discussions, and workbook-based personal study and reflection. grief haven provides support and resources to parents and others who have lost a child; offers free newsletters, free funeral planning guides, and reader-submitted stories, videos, and poetry. healthful chat offers a bereavement and grief peer support chat room, bereavement and grief peer support forums, and a bereavement and grief peer support social network to keep in touch with new friends made. grief.net offers over fifty email grief support groups and two sites (one for adults and one for children). grieving.com forums offers online grief support for those coping with loss; forums, message boards, and chat. good grief center for bereavement support a nonprofit charitable organization that provides compassionate support services and resources to individuals of all ages coping with the death of someone important in their life, including a companion animal. national alliance for grieving children offers online education, hosts an annual symposium on children’s grief, and maintains a national data base of children’s bereavement support programs. the compassionate friends provides highly personal comfort, hope, and support to every family experiencing the death of a son or a daughter, a brother or a sister, or a grandchild, and helps others better assist the grieving family. national widowers organization a site that helps men grieve the loss of their wives. the widdahood free grief support network dedicated to widows, widowers, and anyone who has lost their significant other. support for infertility creating a family a nonprofit with the mission of providing unbiased accurate education and support for infertility and adoption. the bump a forum for those dealing with infertility and/or undergoing ivf treatment. fertile thoughts this forum offers real-world information about virtually all aspects of infertility, as well as support from others who are facing similar challenges. topics include: invitro fertilization (ivf), primary and secondary infertility, intrauterine insemination, donor eggs / donor sperm, pregnancy loss or miscarriage, and many more. attain fertility from access to fertility centers throughout the u.s. to extensive fertility information and emotional and community support, attain fertility is one of the most comprehensive resources available for all of your fertility needs. resolve support groups (offline) find a peer-led or professionally led infertility support group in your area. adoption services a non-profit that offers free financial, medical, and emotional assistance and information to pregnant women and birth parents regardless of whether or not you are placing your child for adoption. parents via egg donation provides an informational and supportive environment where parents and parents-to-be can learn and share information about all facets of the egg donation process. support for mental illness psychological screening tests all quizzes are free, and most are based upon scientific research. they are instantly and automatically scored once completed, giving you immediate results. mental health america the nation’s leading community-based network dedicated to helping all americans achieve wellness by living mentally healthier lives. offers mental healthy screening tools and help finding treatment and support. national alliance on mental illness the nation’s largest grassroots mental health organization. provides support, education, awareness, advocacy, and research. strength of us an online community designed to inspire young adults impacted by mental health issues to think positive, stay strong, and achieve their goals through peer support and resource sharing. mental health service locator a source of information for people seeking treatment facilities in the united states or u.s. territories for substance abuse/addiction and/or mental health problems. mental health forum a forum that aims to be the friendliest place on the web to discuss mental health issues. mental earth provides support for people with mental illnesses/mental disorders, those recovering and those in remission, as well as their families, friends, and mental health providers. well-being wizard provides tools and resources to help individuals and organizations maintain and improve their well-being, including questionnaires, suggestions, ratings, and surveys. authentic happiness provides free resources where people can learn about positive psychology through readings, videos, research, opportunities, conferences, questionnaires with feedback, and more. ulifeline an anonymous, confidential, online resource center for college students seeking information about mental health. support for miscarriage open to hope a non-profit organization that helps people find hope after loss. my baby angel foundation offers support for those who have suffered a miscarriage, pregnancy, or infant loss. beloved angels offers support and resources for those whose lives are touched by the tragic death of a baby through early pregnancy loss, stillbirth or newborn death. silent grief support for all who have suffered a miscarriage and later child loss. miss foundation a community of compassion and hope for grieving families. provides counseling, advocacy, research, education, and support. bereaved parents of the usa a non-profit that offers support, understanding, compassion, and hope for bereaved parents, grandparents, or siblings struggling to rebuild their lives after the death of their children, grandchildren, or siblings. national share provides free resources and support toward positive resolution of grief experienced at the time of, or following the death of a baby. hope exchange offers information for those who have been impacted by the grief of pregnancy loss. provides educational and uplifting articles, booklets, pamphlets, books, and extensive list of resources. subsequent pregnancy after a loss support group an active support network, with about 400 members sharing mutual support and information regarding subsequent pregnancy. first candle grief support line: 1-800-221-7437 for families who have experienced the death of a baby support for post-traumatic stress disorder post-traumatic stress disorder alliance a group of professional and advocacy organizations that have joined forces to provide educational resources to individuals diagnosed with ptsd and their loved ones; those at risk for developing ptsd; and medical, healthcare and other frontline professionals. healthy place ptsd screening test helps you determine if you have the symptoms of ptsd and whether you should seek a diagnosis or treatment from a qualified doctor or mental health professional. understanding ptsd free booklet this booklet will help you understand what ptsd is and how to get help. it includes stories from people who have gotten help for their ptsd and have returned to their normal lives, activities, and relationships. understanding ptsd treatment free booklet this booklet describes therapies and medications that are proven to help people with ptsd. you’ll hear from experts about what treatment is like, and how it can help you. cognitive behavioral therapy worksheets for ptsd cognitive behavioral therapy worksheets to help you deal with ptsd. my ptsd provides basic information, references, and online support for those struggling with pstd and their loved ones. give an hour a non-profit providing free mental health services to u.s. military personnel and families affected by the current conflict in iraq and afghanistan. t2 mood tracker app the free t2 moodtracker lets you self-monitor, track, and reference your emotional health with an easy visual scale. vet wives living with ptsd a message board offering support for those who love a veteran with combat ptsd. support for sexual abuse survivors rainn (rape, abuse, and incest national network) the nation’s largest anti-sexual violence organization; offers a hotline, information, and help finding support. adult survivors of childhood abuse an international support group program for adult survivors of neglect, physical, sexual, and/or emotional abuse. offers community, provider, and web-based support group, along with survivor to thriver workbooks. after silence support groups, message board, forums, and chat room for rape, sexual assault, and sexual abuse survivors. support for partners partners of survivors who have joined the forums find support, understanding, and ideas for improving their situation from other partners. pandora’s project a non-profit dedicated to providing information, support, and resources to survivors of rape and sexual abuse and their friends and family. male survivor provides critical resources to male survivors of sexual trauma and all their partners in recovery by building communities of hope, healing, and support. safe horizon the nation’s leading victim assistance organization; provides support, prevents violence, and promotes justice for victims of crime and abuse, their families, and communities. metropolitan organization to counter sexual assault information about childhood sexual abuse, tip sheets for responding to disclosure of sexual abuse, indicator of sexual abuse tip sheet. psych central childhood sexual abuse forums an online community for childhood sexual abuse survivors to seek and offer support. sexual assault hotline  1-800-656-4673 support for self-injury self-injury outreach and support provides information, resources, and online videos for anyone who has self-injured, who has recovered, or who knows someone who self-injures. self-injury foundation provides funding for research, advocacy support, and education for self-injurers, their loved ones, and the professionals who work with them. scar tissue download leaflets and fact sheets and communicate with other members via two moderated forums. the adolescent self-injury foundation a non-profit organization created for the purpose of offering hope in the recovery process for the adolescent and young adult self-injurers and their family. cutting and self-harm virtual teen forums an online forum where self-injurers and their loved ones can seek and offer support. bodies under siege forums and chat room connect with a community of people who have, are having, or have had problems with self-injury. recover your life articles, forums, chat, and live help to find the support you need, any day at any time. trichotillomania learning center provides a wide range of services for information, support, and treatment for hair pulling and skin picking. project toe a free iphone app that allows people to help one another with self-harming issues. if you have the urge to self-harm, tap “toe.” if you want to help someone during an urge to self-harm, create a “help schedule.” self-injury (information only—not a crisis line) 1-800-dont cut (1-800-366-8288) support for stress the american institute of stress a non-profit organization that imparts information on stress reduction, stress in the workplace, effects of stress, and various other stress related topics. stress management society a non-profit organization that offers various tools and resources to help you better recognize stress and develop strategies to deal with it. global organization for stress offers a free and paid membership; free membership includes the guide “101 ways to less stress,” regular blog posts, and regular weekly email tips for stress management and relief. stress management worksheets downloaded printable stress worksheets to help you identify your causes of stress, find healthy coping skills to deal with stress, and find ways to take care of yourself physically and emotionally to better withstand stress. mind tools stress management techniques offers action-based strategies, perception-based strategies, and many other coping strategies and tools. help guide emotional intelligence toolkit this free program includes articles, videos, and audio meditations. you’ll learn why emotional intelligence is so important to your emotional and physical health and then two core skills for reducing overwhelming stress. harvard health resources free tools to help you cope with stress. free apps to manage stress a list of five free apps with links and descriptions that will help you manage stress; includes apps for android, ios, and the kindle fire. stress relief games a great collection of hand-picked games suitable for keeping your thoughts away from stressful and annoying things. support for suicidal thoughts/coping with loss by suicide suicide.org suicide prevention, awareness, and support. american foundation for suicide prevention understanding and preventing suicide through research, education, and advocacy. suicide: finding hope information for those considering suicide, suicide attempt survivors, and those grieving the loss of a loved on to suicide. lifeline crisis chat crisis centers across the united states have joined together to form one national chat network that can provide online emotional support, crisis intervention, and suicide prevention services. national suicide prevention lifeline provides free and confidential emotional support to people in suicidal crisis or emotional distress: 1-800-273-talk. alliance of hope provides healing support for people coping with the shock, excruciating grief, and complex emotions that accompany the loss of a loved one to suicide. suicide grief forum a public message board that provides information, support, and comfort to anyone whose life has been touched by the suicide of another person. the trevor project the leading national organization providing crisis intervention and suicide prevention services to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (lgbtq) young people. hotline: 1-866-488-7386 suicide & crisis hotline  1-800-999-9999 / adolescent suicide hotline 1- 800-621-4000 *the resources listed on this page are not affiliated with tiny buddha, and this page does not serve as an official endorsement. they may or may not help. please utilize these resources at your own discretion. if one of these links is no longer valid, or if you have a free resource to add, please email us with “free resource” in the subject line. disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top