see help scout in action get a demo features shared inbox manage conversations at scale knowledge base instant answers for customers in-app messaging engage people on your website customer management know your vips reporting real-time data at your fingertips live chat make your website more helpful integrations connect the tools you already use company plan designed to grow with teams of 25+ resources blog culture, learnings, and product updates success stories see how other teams use help scout get a demo help scout tips, best practices, and q&a help center how-to articles about using help scout contact us get in touch with our team education helpu learn how to create exceptional customer experiences playlists customer service insights, organized by theme guides deep dives spanning the customer lifecycle webinars live and recorded sessions with industry experts pricing get a demo free trial see help scout in action get a demo shared inbox knowledge base messaging customer management reporting live chat integrations company plan pricing success stories get a demo blog helpu guides webinars free trial already a customer? login help scout for good if you’re making an impact, we’d like to help. the world can be a tough place, but there are thousands of organizations working to make it better — better for the next generation, better for underrepresented groups, better for our environment, and better for their local community. we’re doing our part as a certified b corporation, our purpose is not only profit, but a positive impact for employees, communities, and the environment, which is why we do everything we can to support organizations that share our values. issues we care about human rights we believe all people should be treated fairly and with compassion, no matter their gender, race, sexuality, education, income or other factor. environmental sustainability we’re thrilled to support organizations that are fighting climate change and its impact on our planet. underrepresentation in tech everyone deserves the same chance to succeed, and we’re proud to champion efforts to increase representation from historically marginalized groups. if your organization advocates for one or more of these issues as part of your core mission, we’d like to offer you a significant discount on help scout, up to 100% . the discount is limited to non-profits and certified public benefit corporations, and it requires a brief application process to get started. apply now discounts for non-profits and b corporations non-profits and b corporations get a 10% lifetime discount, no questions asked. sign up for an account, then reach out and we’ll take care of the rest. sign up event sponsorship if you host a technology meetup or group whose primary audience is a group of people that are underrepresented in our community, we’d be happy to consider sponsoring it in some form. tell us about your group/event. close tell us more about your organization tools for the world's most customer-centric businesses features shared inbox knowledge base live chat messaging customer management new reporting integrations ios & android more features learn customer service skills intro to knowledge bases live chat support 101 working remotely customer support benchmarks company about us careers help scout for good startup program brand handbook terms & privacy get help developers help docs free training contact sales status 99.99% made by hand in over 75 cities around the world. © 2020 help scout