back to udemy login sign up back to udemy sign up login home blog stories company careers press shape the future of learning with us helping people around the world gain skills and achieve begins right here. see open positions we are learners our team embraces udemy’s mission to improve lives through learning. employees enjoy unlimited access to udemy courses, a yearly ulearn stipend, office-wide learning fairs, a monthly drop everything and learn (deal) hour, and access to a state-of-the-art production studio where they can create their own udemy courses. we are navigators people don’t join udemy to do a job; they come to build a career. we all benefit when every employee is supported in developing their skills. starting with robust onboarding, we offer lots of homegrown workshops and trainings so people can reach their professional goals, including feedback is fuel, career navigators, and learn to lead. we are global we may be based in san francisco, but our roots are in turkey, and we’ve had a global mindset from the beginning. we have students and instructors around the world, offices around the world, and employees from around the world, who speak many languages and represent many cultures. we make an impact udemy gives back to our global community in many ways, such as by sharing free courses with deserving organizations and working with nonprofits to help them train their workforces and volunteers. we were founding partners of the digital workforce development initiative, and our employees regularly volunteer with local middle-schoolers, at food banks, and more. get a taste of how we mix fun and learning at udemy. watch video > perks & benefits we’re committed to supporting our employees’ professional development and well-being. stock options employees are eligible to earn stock options and share ownership of what we build. generous time off we understand that everyone needs to recharge their batteries. our salaried employees receive discretionary time off, while hourly employees accrue three weeks of prorated personal time off every year. free courses & learning money employees get free access to every course on the udemy and udemy for business platforms and receive a yearly stipend that can be used for other professional development and training. ubelong program udemy prioritizes diversity and inclusion. we host events, trainings, and meet-ups to ensure everyone can bring their authentic selves to work and reach their full potential. free food & beverages get your fill of catered lunch 4x a week and snacks for all dietary preferences and restrictions. guest speakers we host speakers from a wide variety of industries and backgrounds to share their expertise. learning & development udemy’s own amazing l&d team regularly provides top-notch training sessions and leads company-wide initiatives that help employees enhance their professional skill sets. company events we celebrate company milestones and holidays, hold employee wellness events, and organize fun extracurriculars like playing ball, bowling, yoga, cooking classes, karaoke, and more. gym discount udemy is partnered with crunch gym for discounted enrollment and monthly rates. groups at udemy with dozens of groups at udemy, everyone can find one that matches their passion, including the dawn patrol (surf club), women at udemy, board game night, culture crew, and more. join our team if you’re passionate and ready to dive in, we’d love to meet you. jobs can't load at udemy, we value diversity and inclusion and consider qualified applicants without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status, veteran status, medical condition or disability. udemy for business become an instructor mobile apps about us careers blog topics support affiliate english français deutsch español português 日本語 copyright @ 2020 udemy, inc. terms privacy policy and cookie policy intellectual property