henry farrell professor of political science and international affairs menu skip to content home academic articles book chapters conference bio and photo cv public writing i’m a professor of political science and international affairs at george washington university, and the 2019 recipient of the friedrich schiedel prize for politics and technology. my and abraham newman’s book, of privacy and power: the transatlantic fight over freedom and security is the winner of the 2019 chicago-kent college of law / roy c. palmer civil liberties prize, the 2020 isa-icomm award, and one of foreign affairs’ best books of 2019. i’m also editor in chief of the monkey cage blog at the washington post. my first major project focuses on the role of democracy in a complex world. pursuing cognitive democracy, with cosma shalizi, examines how democracy can better harness the benefits of diverse perspectives than either markets or hierarchy. evolutionary theory and endogenous institutional change, with danielle allen and cosma shalizi, proposes a new understanding of institutional change, and uses it to compare the relative levels of institutional dynamism in athenian democracy and spartan oligarchy during the classical and hellenic eras. dewey’s democratic account of international politics with jack knight looks at how john dewey’s arguments about democratic publics can be extended to understand international interdependence. common-knowledge attacks on democracy, with bruce schneier, examines the vulnerability of democracy to attacks that use floods of information to heighten division. the janus face of the liberal information order, with abraham newman, discusses the historical process through which the liberal information order came to be weaponized against democracies, rather than simply undermining authoritarian regimes as many scholars and policy makers expected. my second project, with abraham newman addresses what we call weaponized interdependence, providing a structural theory of how economic networks enable state coercion. a draft version of our major paper (published in international security) is here: we have published related pieces in the new york times, foreign affairs and harvard business review. my book with abraham newman, of privacy and power: the transatlantic fight over freedom and security examines eu-us disputes over privacy and surveillance. this article which surveys recent work on the ‘new interdependence,’ as well as setting out our own ideas, came out in world politics in spring 2014. this financial times op-ed gives some flavor of our argument. my and abraham newman’s piece, the transatlantic data war, appears in the jan/feb 2016 issue of foreign affairs. you can find an ungated copy here. my guide to good writing for undergraduate political science students is here. i blog at crooked timber (general political argument, intellectual discussion, and completely non-intellectual discussion) and at the monkey cage (political science and its applications). the best part of my career as a blogger was putting together this seminar (made into a beautiful pdf by john holbo) on francis spufford’s wonderful book, red plenty. my twitter handle is @henryfarrell, and my pinboard feed is henryfarrell. contact me at myfirstname.mylastname@gmail.com. i’m a member of the council on foreign relations. i am also co-chair (with nick lemann) of the advisory board for the social science research council’s digital culture initiative, an affiliated scholar at stanford university law school’s center for the internet and society, and an international correspondent for stato e mercato. i remember aaron swartz. selected recent academic articles henry farrell and abraham newman, “weaponized interdependence,” international security, summer 2019. henry farrell and abraham newman (2018), “linkage politics and complex governance in transatlantic surveillance,” world politics, 70:4, 515-554. henry farrell and john quiggin (2017), “consensus, dissensus and economic ideas: the rise, fall and partial resurrection of keynesianism during the economic crisis (draft version),” international studies quarterly, 61:2, 269–283. see here for more. selected recent essays henry farrell and abraham newman, “the twilight of america’s financial empire, foreign affairs (online), january 24, 2020. henry farrell and abraham newman, “chained to globalization: why it’s too late to decouple,” foreign affairs, january/february 2020. henry farrell and bruce schneier, “democracy’s dilemma,” boston review forum, with responses from allison berke, danah boyd, anna grzymala-busse, jason healey, joseph nye, riana pfefferkorn and astra taylor. henry farrell and abraham newman, “the wrong way to punish iran,” the new york times, november 1, 2018. henry farrell, margaret levi and tim o’reilly, “mark zuckerberg runs a nation-state, and he’s the king, vox, april 18, 2018. henry farrell, “philip k. dick and the fake humans,” boston review: global dystopias 2018 (edited by junot diaz). see here for more. my books buy from amazon buy from powells buy from amazon buy from powells monkey cage posts ireland and britain aren’t part of trump’s coronavirus travel ban. this is why. if you’re worried that russian bots are brainwashing the world, take a deep breath sinn fein won bigger than anyone in ireland expected. that’s not altogether good for sinn fein. ireland may be about to see a historic election upset bolton alleges that trump helped out china’s leader on zte. what’s zte? pinboard.in feed how coronavirus is affecting pasta’s complex supply chain | financial times berlin pushes back in coronavirus propaganda war – politico curevac, covid-19, and economic statecraft: lessons for europe | european council on foreign relations crooked timber seeing like a finite state machine but how will they pay for it? ossian’s ride last tweets rt @abuaardvark: i mean... wow. https://t.co/e8jfttgqyu, 28 mins ago dude knows how to weaponize a semi-colon - no better man for employing complex sentence structure as a mode of iron… https://t.co/ey9scu0wom, 43 mins ago rt @sevaut: first, gibbon's writing is good. a bit flowery, but rarely pompous. his penchant for aphorisms works well it twitte… https://t.co/dk8aitbdho, 44 mins ago rt @btgprojectdc: congratulations to new alum @kendrickkuotes who was awarded the @isanet barbara w. tuchman prize for best paper in… https://t.co/6jy69lbnsh, 45 mins ago rt @marxinhell: good news: harvard has reversed course and committed to paying the university’s workers, including contract dining… https://t.co/yi89er6hca, 48 mins ago proudly powered by wordpress