skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search sale! henri shoulder strap $ 169 – $ 179 – handmade in small batches with premium-grade leather, available in two colors: crema brown and phantom black – adjustable length: 44 inches to 54 inches (total length from one side of the camera to the other). width of strap is .625 inch (17mm) and the width of the neck pad is 1.375 inch (34mm). length of neck pad is 10 inches (25mm). – designed for fujifilm, leica, rangefinders, film cameras, micro 4-3rds, and medium sized cameras with side-lugs – intended to be worn cross-body, on the shoulder, or for taller photographers (can be worn around the neck.) haptic mission: we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. read the story behind each strap to find the perfect strap for your photography adventures! color choose an optioncrema brownphantom blackclear henri shoulder strap quantity add to cart sku: n/a category: camera straps, bags, & t-shirts description description crema brown phantom black adjustable length leather cover to protect camera from scratches “henri by eric kim” shoulder strap is hand crafted with care from start to finish. rather than mass produced, these straps are handmade in small, limited quantity batches in order to preserve a level of excellent craftsmanship and quality. made from durable, genuine leather, each rugged strap is unique–it will have subtle marks and over time it will bear the traces of your adventures. compatibility henri shoulder strap (crema brown) on leica mp, comes with free wooden serpent box (while supplies last.) (leica not included) the henri shoulder strap is light, comfortable, and ideal for all camera sizes. the shoulder strap is optimized to be worn cross body, on your shoulder, or for taller photographers, the strap can also be worn around the neck. compatability: the henri shoulder strap fits any camera that has side lugs. it does not fit dslr’s nor the ricoh gr. it fits all fujifilm cameras (x-pro series, x100-series, etc), all micro 4/3rds cameras (olympus, panasonic, etc), all leica cameras (leica q, m, film m, etc), and most film cameras. henri: artistic & functional design designed, tried, and tested for over three years, the henri shoulder strap design is both artistic and functional. every part of the camera strap has been thoroughly thought out. from the soft and supple leather neck/shoulder pad to the adjustable design and length. handmade from start to finish by leather artisans, each product is unique and artistically crafted. all of the metal components of the henri shoulder strap are designed in such a way that they will not scratch up against your camera body. adjustable length & sizing adjustable length adjustable length cover henri shoulder strap in phantom black closeup detail of cross-hatched burgundy-crimson stitching on henri shoulder strap in phantom black the henri shoulder strap is designed to be worn cross body, on the shoulder, or for taller photographers the strap can be worn around the neck. the total length of the strap measured from one side of the camera to the other can be adjusted from 44 inches to 54 inches in length (112cm to 137cm). width of strap is .625 inch (1.7cm) and the width of the neck pad is 1.375 inch (3.4cm). length of neck pad is 10 inches (25cm). please test these dimensions to fit your needs prior to purchase. if you prefer a shorter length strap to be worn at mid-chest level, pick up the henri neck strap (classic). or if you prefer to have the camera always in your hand, pick up the henri wrist strap (chroma edition, classic edition). the henri shoulder strap can be adjusted by sliding up the protective leather cover, and adjusting the length as shown below: note: during the first month of use, the leather may temporarily stain light-colored clothing. with use, the strap will soften, fade into a nice patina, and become your own. how to install your henri henri shoulder strap on the streets new henri shoulder strap in crema brown new henri shoulder strap in crema brown henri shoulder strap cream brown henri shoulder strap cream brown henri shoulder strap cream brown henri shoulder strap cream brown henri shoulder strap cream brown henri shoulder strap cream brown eric kim’s current setup with henri shoulder strap crema brown learn more about the henri shoulder strap > for more questions on ordering or sizing please contact cindy at hapticindustries@gmail.com the story behind the henri strap cindy: the henri shoulder strap, henri neck strap, henri wrist strap (classic and chroma), and erickim strap are all 100% handmade, crafted with care from start to finish. each henri strap is hand-made by two of our friends, lan and uyen who are a leather craftsmen and artists in saigon. eric and i are their clients and collaborators, and we worked together with them to design the strap. since they are our friends and collaborators, they have always set the price for the straps to cover their costs and labor. lan and uyen source the leather, handmake the straps during the weekdays between music gigs, and ship them to california from saigon. rather than mass produced, these are handmade in small, limited-quantity batches in order to preserve a level of excellent craftsmanship and quality. each strap is unique. once they get to california, eric and i (and now with the help of our loving and supportive family) work to quality check, finish, and package each strap: why buy from haptic aka cindy & eric? shoulder pad stitching detail of henri shoulder strap in phantom black unlike huge, anonymous factories, this is the entire operation: eric, me, my family, lan, and uyen. we are transparent about the labor practices behind the straps because we are proud and love each product we make. we live in vietnam currently and are very cognizant of global inequality, especially in labor practices. this is why we price our products the way we do. we want to give a fair and respectful wage to everyone involved. we do not run a wholesale factory, but support honest and beautiful work. reviews of the henri neck strap fred prinz, los angeles i love it! what else is there to say about this strap that hasn’t been said? here’s why i love it. it’s plain – no annoying words that shout “look at me – i have a …”; it’s leather – feels good to the touch and doesn’t irritate my skin when i grab on to it; it’s a good size – i can wear it over one shoulder, ready to lift it up to make a pic. or i can wear it across my body so i can lift the camera into position for a “live view” shot; it’s supple – i can wrap the strap around my arm and carry the camera in one hand, knowing the camera will be secure. i’m very happy with this strap. and it’s my second one ‘cause i’m still using my first on another camera. street shootr – the henri strap by eric kim josh white – first impressions the henri strap by eric kim the candid frame – review of eric kim’s “henri” camera strap photo by maximilian @oldsqllab photo by maximilian @oldsqllab photo by maximilian @oldsqllab color crema brown, phantom black you may also like… sale! new henri neck strap mark iii $ 139 – $ 149 select options sale! henri wrist strap chroma limited edition $ 49 – $ 79 select options the city of angels by eric kim $ 3,000 add to cart related products haptic hoodie artwear $ 49 select options vitruvian camera – women’s artwear $ 39 select options eric kim wrist strap mark ii $ 79 add to cart primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta