home comments policy subscribe from the category archives: henwood seminar long after the new economy by john quiggin on october 7, 2004 back in january, about a decade ago in internet time, kieran announced this week at crooked timber, at the suggestion of daniel, some of us will be discussing doug henwood’s new book, after the new economy. henry followed up and daniel gave us a series of real soon now posts, which i suppose constitutes as good a representation of the new economy as any. at the time, i had a pretty good excuse for not joining in – the book hadn’t gone on sale in australia. brad de long kindly sent me a copy, and, a mere eight months later, my review is done, at least in draft form. comments much appreciated. [click to continue…] after “after the new economy” by henry on february 2, 2004 a little belatedly, some thoughts on after the new economy. other timberites are still in the throes of writing their posts, so we’ll do a linkage post pulling the various responses together (as well as the responses of non-ct people such as brad delong), when we’ve all reported. first take – this is a very good book indeed. it provides a trenchant response, not only to the new economy hype, but also to the political project that it implies. most importantly (and unusually, for a book about the us economy) it’s solidly based in a comparative framework, examining not only the relationship between the us and the world economy, but also showing that the experience from other countries (european social democracies) suggests that large welfare states aren’t necessarily a drag on growth. brad delong notes somewhere or another on his blog that the economic success of the statist scandinavians is a real puzzle for economic theory; this is something that should give pause to gung-ho us advocates of unfettered free markets, but rarely does. it’s nice to see the lesson being drawn out in a book that isn’t aimed at an academic audience. furthermore, as kieran has already noted, after the new economy avoids falling into the trap of bucolic communitarianism; henwood makes a guarded – but thoughtfully argued – case for the potential benefits of globalization for societies in both the west and the developing world. he’s right on all fronts, i think – but there’s still something missing in the book, which reflects a wider absence in the political debate. not only is there not much in the way of a pro-globalization left; what there is doesn’t have much in the way of a positive alternative vision to offer. this means that henwood is able to make a strong case for the prosecution, but doesn’t have very many positive arguments to defend his own vision of globalization. [click to continue…] after the new economy by kieran healy on january 27, 2004 this week at crooked timber, at the suggestion of daniel, some of us will be discussing doug henwood’s new book, after the new economy. it’s an analysis and critique of “new economy” rhetoric about productivity growth, the transformation of work and the process of globalization. doug henwood is probably known to many readers of ct. he’s the editor of the left business observer and the author of wall street. i read the book on a round-trip bus excursion to sydney last week and wrote up a general review to kick things off. this is a fairly long post. you can get it in a more readable pdf format if you like. [click to continue…] recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter