barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up humor here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest brandon rhoads discover editor (aka the science nerd) shares share tweet pin we here at barkpost have never questioned that dogs are the absolute best, but it never hurts to review why. so we decided to see how some of the more exotic pets stack up against man’s best friend. meet 15 pets that prove dogs are the best friend a person could have. 1. the scorpion not to start off with the obvious, but really? a poisonous arachnid? do i even need to say why dogs are better than a venomous, creepy, eight-legged insect? i didn’t think so. next! images via the richest and _bellaandcooper instagram 2. the bearded dragon technically called the pogona, the bearded dragon has a reputation for being calm, friendly, and easy to transport. but here are two things that it’s not: 1) cute and 2) cuddly. no snuggling? major minus points. images via barfblog and maxandmina instagram 3. the sugar glider don’t let this derpy marsupial’s whiskers fool you. if you think your dog poops too much, never shuts up, and stinks too bad, then guess again. the sugar glider, aka the sugar baby, has four scent glands for marking territory. four! and did i mention it has the gift of flight? i can just see the poop on the curtains now. images via the richest and _dogstakingdumps instagram 4. the tarantula it may be soft and fuzzy, but it’s certainly not cute. still the tarantula is pretty harmless. its bite is not fatal, it doesn’t eat much, and apparently you can play with it. but it’s still a big frickin’ spider! images via the richest and daily mail 5. the hissing cockroach people keep roaches as pets? why? just why? there’s only one kind of bug allowed in my home. a cuddlebug (a.k.a a doge). images via national geographic and _amandapeck instagram 6. the hedgehog okay, so far the score is “dogs 5, exotics pets 0.” will the hedgehog be the first to score a cute point against pups? the hedgehog is a genuine cutie, but this nocturnal creature will be up all night spinning its wheel while you’re trying to sleep. and they certainly don’t meet the cuddle criteria. i mean, look at them. they’re covered in spikes. images via chicago now and altairjian instagram 7. the burmese python the python may seem like a neat conversation starter, as well a pet that will bump you up to bad-butt status. that is, until it eats you. these bad boys can grow up to 17 feet in length. and they swallow lesser animals whole. so if you choose to have a python as a pet, make the python your only pet. or it might, well. you know. eat them. images via becuo and furbesties instagram 8. the fennec fox another adorable adversary, this fox looks like it jumped straight outta pokemon. and just like a pokemon, fennec foxes don’t take well to captivity and don’t naturally look to bond with humans. technically in the same family as dogs, these critters apparently act more like cats (and you know how we feel about those eternally-shade throwing mice catchers). images via wikipedia and patflinschrod flickr 9. the kinkajou no, it’s not a monkey. or a weasel. it’s a raccoon. sort of. and it doesn’t like the light, noise, or sudden movements. in other words, it probably doesn’t like you, and it may show you that by scratching your eyes out. the kinkajou is also a carrier of a fatal species of roundworm. so…no plus sides. whatsoever. images via hourly notes and richarddavistattoos instagram 10. the skunk neeeext!!! images via wikimedia commons and serena.gemini instagram 11. the serval according to what i read, the serval is not your typical house cat. it comes from the plains of africa where… wait. it’s a cat? never mind. images via the richest and paulyjcairns instagram 12. the wallaby okay, so it’s like a baby kangaroo, which sounds cool. however, wallabies are incredibly finicky and require a lot of space, which not everyone has. plus, they can get reach up to 6 feet in height. if you tried to walk it, it’d be like a bouncing great dane. *gulp. images via animal wildlife and kingsammy123 instagram 13. the capybaras these fellows are known as the largest rodent in the world. also known as “the water pig,” the capybaras can reach up to 150 pounds. they can also double as a lawnmower, considering they live on a diet of grass. though perfectly harmless, they’re not very social. so these guys come pretty close to taking the cake…but they won’t lick my face with ruv. that’s a deal breaker. images via beauty animal and delcerroyau instagram 14. the squirrel monkey now, i know what you’re thinking. who doesn’t want a monkey? but it’s not all fun and games. squirrel monkeys constantly fight for alpha status and are more inclined to make you the pet. they’ll yell at you, hit you, and steal your food. and good luck trying to house train them. images via true wildlife and antshao instagram 15. the slow loris the slow loris held on to the end because it’s possibly the cutest, cuddliest creature on the list. but its charm is also its trap. while it would be easy to fall for those sad, droopy eyes and those little sausage fingers, the loris has a secret. its armpits secrete a dangerous venom. yes, its armpits. which the loris licks when grooming. and did i mention it tends to bite? not a winning combination. i’ll take good old fashioned dog drool any day! images via grist and deedala27 instagram since your dog will never punch you in the face, swallow you whole, or poison you with its armpits, it’s pretty safe to say dogs make the best animal friends a hooman could ask for. sure, all animals are awesome. but only dogs are pawesome. featured image via doodoo for more, check out these related articles! 17 rare and exotic dogs breeds you may not have heard of 21 dogs groomed like exotic animals and fictional characters 15 dogs and their exotic animal doppelgängers 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life humane society proves red carpets are better with dogs comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up brandon rhoads discover editor (aka the science nerd) 23 heavy-duty dog toys for monster chewers why is my dog eating poop? what are the best christmas gifts for a super chewer dog? 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go