skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about here’s how to get cheap disney+ for just £1.08 a month after cashback by naomi willis | last updated 13th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links share tweet pin disney+ is launching on 24 march – but don’t just sign up! you can get cheap disney+ for just £1.08 per month using this quidco cashback deal. disney+ is launching in the uk on 24 march 2020. usually costing £59.99 if you sign up for a year there’s a way to get it much cheaper! to celebrate the launch, they are running a pre-order deal so you only pay £49.99 for a year. but, don’t just pay that because you can save even more! cheap disney+ deal unfortunately, they have reached the limit on this offer. this offer has now expired. they are hoping to launch a new offer next week, so watch this space. sign up for quidco here and you can get £17 cashback when you sign up for disney+ for a year. that reduces the cost down to £32.99. but, quidco new premium members will also receive £20 cashback on top of this. with the £17 new member bonus, this will take the total cost to just £12.99! that’s £1.08 per month! how to get cheap disney+ here are the simple steps you need to get disney+ mega cheap for a year. sign-up to quidco here visit the disney+ retailer page and click ‘redeem bonus’ shop as usual with disney+ online and pay £49.99 you’ll then earn up to £20 cashback on your order – just for being a quidco member plus, you’ll receive a £17 cashback bonus from quidco that’s it! so, you need to pay for the discounted year’s membership upfront but you will receive cashback in your quidco account to cash out into your bank. there are 2,500 of these offers up for grabs, and it’s on a first come first serve basis. the offer is only running until 23 march and is for new members. what is quidco premium? quidco have two levels of membership. you can use the site and earn cashback on all your shopping absolutely free. but, you can choose to upgrade to quidco premium which gives you extra features and chances to earn more. instead of getting basic cashback, you can earn up to 10% cashback rate top-ups! you don’t need to pay from your own pocket to upgrade, but instead, give £1 of your monthly cashback earnings you get through quidco. if you don’t use quidco for any reason for a month, your account will be considered inactive, you will continue to be a premium member, and your account will be free from monthly fees. and, when you can get mega cheap disney+ using quidco premium is even better! naomi willis naomi knows the burden of living on very little and became debt free by learning from past mistakes and following her own money saving tips and tricks. skintdad.co.uk * to ensure skint dad remains completely free to use, this post may contain affiliate links. contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about