start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising productivity success advertising here’s why writing down your goals really does work nabin paudyal co-founder, siplikan media group read full profile share pin it tweet share email according to a usa today report on new years’ resolutions, people who write down their resolutions are more likely to keep them than people who simply think or talk about them — even if the only difference between these two groups of people is the act of writing their goals down beforehand. it turns out that the seemingly simple act of writing unlocks all sorts of psychological and personal dynamics which translate to real tangible results. we’re talking more than a 100% difference in results. pay attention to the following factors. they spell out why writing down your goals, whether they’re smaller short-term goals or “big picture” long-term ones, dramatically increases the chances you’ll actually achieve whatever it is you set out to do. increased motivation too many people subconsciously believe that simply thinking about doing something is as good as actually acting on it. they confuse thinking, deliberation, and analysis with action. don’t get me wrong: when you’re setting up goals, you should research. you should get enough information so you can make a truly informed decision. the problem? people often confuse analysis and information-gathering with taking action on their goals. they psychologically fool themselves into thinking that since they are sifting through all this data, they can hold off on actually getting off the fence and putting their money where their mouths are. advertising writing your plans and spelling them out with a step-by-step breakdown is the next best thing to having a life coach cheer you on every day. it increases your motivation to actually start acting on your goals. too much analysis and information-gathering, on the other hand, can leave you with a vaguely defined conception of what your goal should be. in fact, it’s not uncommon for people suffering from “analysis paralysis” to have absolutely no concrete goals. their objective is so ill-defined, free-ranging, and formless that they end up feeling less motivated. there is no sense of urgency, so they keep gathering information and end up no closer to achieving anything of real value — even after spending a huge amount of time, effort, and even money. narrowed focus “where your focus goes, your energy flows.” i can’t emphasize this enough. if you are focused on something, it’s easier to direct your time, energy, and concentration toward it. accordingly, writing down your goals enables you to clearly identify what to focus your time, money, and resources on. all other potential priorities are set aside and you can concentrate on what truly matters. this focus increases the chances you’ll get a return on your efforts. this focus also increases the value of your return on effort and prevents you from easily being thrown off track. advertising clear benchmarks if you are fuzzy regarding the things you wish to achieve, it’s too easy to give yourself excuses for failure. in fact, if your goals are ambiguous enough (largely because they aren’t written down), you can fool yourself into thinking that almost any kind of result is a “success.” of course, if you were completely honest with yourself, you’d know that there are results that are way more desirable than most developments you get from your efforts. sadly, it’s hard to stay focused on these true results if your goals remain fuzzy and flexible due to the fact that you haven’t written them down. written goals demand certain results. since you can see the specific results you should be aiming for, it is harder for you to fudge your results. you end up making less excuses and you set yourself up for real progress. reduced stress since written goals are clearer and easier to pin down than if they were just in your mind, your overall stress levels go down. when you keep yourself guessing as to what your objectives should be, it is too easy to stress out. on the one hand, you might be mentally defining your objectives to be broader than they really are. this means you have a lot more things to worry about. advertising on the other hand, you can think of your ill-defined unwritten goals in such limited terms that when challenges arise, you freak out. you kick yourself for not having thought of certain contingencies ahead of time. you end up spending more money and time on fires you could have taken out earlier (or prevented from breaking out entirely) if you had only written down your goals. small wins there’s no such thing as an impossible goal. let me repeat that again just in case it didn’t sink in with you: there’s no such thing as an impossible goal. the only thing that would make a goal impossible to achieve is its timeline or schedule. these are two totally different factors: timeline/deadline and goal. if you don’t believe me, just think back to the late 1950s space race between the soviet union and the united states. when kennedy boldly said that the us would put a man on the moon, a lot of people the world over thought he was crazy. in their minds, a manned lunar mission was the stuff of fantasies. fast forward only a few years later and the world went crazy over live television footage of neil armstrong on the moon’s surface. the moral of the story? there are no impossible goals. when you write down your goals, you can break them down into smaller, easier-to-schedule modules. the more you can break a goal down into modules that fit a realistic timeline, the more realistic and achievable your goals become. it’s hard to turn your goals into modules if you don’t write them down. you might end up missing an important detail. better systems successful people are able to achieve success (and maintain it) by building systems. they automate. they outsource. they do things in a certain sequence that improves the value of their results or speeds up their processes. in other words, they use systems instead of simply relying on getting lucky. advertising if you don’t write down your goals, you make it incredibly hard on yourself to come up with a system. you may end up chasing your tail because you missed an important detail or you failed to pay attention to a crucial process. the bottom line if you want to turn more of your great ideas, hopes, and dreams into a form you can see, hear, touch, taste, and smell, you need to write down your goals. they may seem awesome in your mind but you might end up simply running on the fumes of wishful thinking if you don’t bother to write them down. achieve success faster and more efficiently with less stress by simply writing down your goals. do it today and start experiencing better results! featured photo credit: pixabay via pixabay.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated advertising advertising more by this author nabin paudyal co-founder, siplikan media group 20 healthy spaghetti squash recipes for delicious comfort food benefits of sauna: 8 ways it makes you healthier and happier 25 websites other than social media to upgrade your life think that positive mantras help a lot? try value affirmation instead 6 successful entrepreneurs who struggle through dyslexia advertising trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques more by this author nabin paudyal co-founder, siplikan media group 20 healthy spaghetti squash recipes for delicious comfort food benefits of sauna: 8 ways it makes you healthier and happier 25 websites other than social media to upgrade your life think that positive mantras help a lot? try value affirmation instead 6 successful entrepreneurs who struggle through dyslexia trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques read next how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.