hidden driver hidden driver is the creative home of laura hanna and astra taylor, who use every medium at their disposal—documentary, animation, the written word, activist campaigning, and ethical spectacle making—to better understand the world, connect with others, and challenge the status quo. democracy ideas urbanism art investigation action projects latest about info@hiddendriver.com laura hanna laura hanna is a filmmaker, media activist and organizer. she helped launch strike debt's rolling jubilee initiative, produced the people's bailout telethon at le poisson rouge, and co-founded the debt collective, an economic justice organization that advocates for the rights of debtors. she is director of gattis, james, hammer, and williams, four long form clemency films about death row inmates in indiana, delaware, virginia and pennsylvania. hanna co-directed the perpetual peace project film series installed in the new museum, ica, goldsmiths, utrecht university, and the international peace institute. she was commissioned to produce short films for the venice biennale of architecture with kyong park and ted smith. hanna has directed and produced shorts for the nation, or books, the new press, moma, creative time, seiu, art review, the new school and slought foundation. astra taylor astra taylor is a writer, documentarian, and organizer. her films include zizek!, a feature documentary about the world’s most outrageous philosopher, and examined life, a series of excursions with contemporary thinkers including slavoj zizek, judith butler, cornel west, peter singer and others. both movies premiered at the toronto international film festival. taylor’s writing has appeared in the nation, the london review of books, n+1, the baffler, the new york times, and elsewhere. she is the editor of examined life, a companion volume to the film, and coeditor of occupy!: scenes from occupied america. she helped launch the rolling jubilee and co-founded the debt collective. most recently she is the author of the book the people’s platform: taking back power and culture in the digital age, winner of a 2015 american book award. she is a shuttleworth foundation fellow. ↓ home hidden driver projects democracy ideas urbanism art investigation action rolling jubilee democracy action laura hanna and astra taylor helped spearhead the rolling jubilee, a strike debt campaign that buys debt for pennies on the dollar, but instead of collecting it, abolishes it, liberating debtors at random through a campaign of mutual support, good will, and collective refusal.… view project › strike debt democracy action strike debt is an offshoot of occupy wall street that laura hanna and astra taylor have been active in. with stagnant wages, systemic unemployment, and public service cuts, we are forced to go into debt for the basic things in life while wall street profits. using direct action,… view project › zizek! ideas art a documentary about the world's most famous philosopher, directed by astra taylor and edited by laura hanna. this captivating, erudite documentary explores the eccentric personality and esoteric work of this incomparable academic and writer who has been called everything from… view project › examined life ideas urbanism art a series of contemplative walks with leading theorists including judith butler, peter singer, cornel west, michael hardt, and others directed by astra taylor. examined life boldly takes philosophy out of the dark corners of the academy and into the streets, reminding us that… view project › examined life: excursions with contemporary thinkers ideas urbanism the companion book to the film features interviews with a variety of iconoclastic and influential philosophers, conducted while on the move through places that hold special resonance for them and their ideas. published by the new press, it is available at bookstores and online. view project › unschooling democracy investigation this single originally published in n+1 (issue 13) asks, "are schools social levelers or do they reinforce the class pyramid by tracking and sorting children from a young age?" a broad-reaching examination of unusual alternatives to mainstream education in the united… view project › occupy! an ows-inspired gazette democracy investigation five issues of this broadsheet, co-edited by astra taylor, were published and distributed in print and online over the course of the first year of the occupy wall street movement. view project › occupy!: scenes from occupied america democracy an unofficial record of this movement, occupy! combines adrenalin-fueled first-hand accounts of the early days and weeks of occupy wall street with contentious debates and thoughtful reflections, featuring the editors and writers of the celebrated n+1, as well as some of the… view project › the people's platform: taking back power and culture in the digital age democracy ideas investigation the internet has been hailed as an unprecedented democratizing force, a place where everyone can be heard and all can participate equally. but how true is this claim? in a seminal dismantling of techno-utopian visions, the people’s platform argues that for all that we “tweet” and “… view project › a housing urbanism made of waste ideas urbanism art filmmaker laura hanna collaborated with architect teddy cruz to create a housing urbanism made of waste in 2008 for the exhibition home delivery: fabricating the modern dwelling at the museum of modern art in new york. here, the short is accompanied by brent arnold’s wonderful m… view project › life or debt democracy a psa (public service analysis) about our for-profit healthcare industry. view project › code democracy art code is a short film with musician matana roberts. the short is a companion to this transcribed interview, where we discuss racial profiling, art, code switching and family archives. http://iammatana.tumblr.com/code … view project › the commons democracy ideas urbanism the commons is an animated short produced for the new press by laura hanna. the short examines the concept of the commons as a means to achieve a society of justice and equality. view project › the perpetual peace project democracy ideas art kant's perpetual peace essay is used as an anchor to explore diplomacy and the current geo-political landscape. the film has been installed in the new museum, ica, utrecht, and screened in philosophy courses at goldsmiths, utrecht university, and the international peace… view project › watch your foodometer! urbanism laura hanna and astra taylor trace how far food travels from field to fork with brilliant art and animation by molly schwartz & excellent music by frosted ambassador view project › the new american dream democracy art action a new jersey family discusses poverty, student debt, medical debt and democracy. read accompanying dispatch → view project › what is the rolling jubilee? democracy action a psa explaining the rolling jubilee. view project › home hidden driver latest welcome to our blog! shuttleworth fellowship announcement sep 1 2015 astra here. i am very pleased to announce that i have been granted a shuttleworth foundation fellowship to continue my work around indebtedness and inequality through my involvement with the debt collective. this is an amazing opportunity, and one i'm beyond grateful for. as our ongoing work with defrauded former students of corinthian colleges has shown, the debt collective has a tremendous amount of potential. the core team is committed to manifesting that potential to the best of our ability over the coming fellowship year. you can keep up with our activities on twitter: twitter.com/0debtzone and as a debt-themed bonus, here's a link to a short piece i recently did for vice looking at how debt and austerity impact all of us and our cities, even if we are not individually in the red. home