toggle navigation created with sketch. stories that stay with you. about us who we are contact us february 10, 2020 the golden age of white collar crime elite lawbreaking is out of control. this is the grotesque story of an existential threat to american society. story by michael hobbes illustrations by rebecca yanovskaya the golden age of white collar crime elite lawbreaking is out of control. this is the grotesque story of an existential threat to american society. michael hobbes stories that stay with you. subscribe to our newsletter. you can always unsubscribe. sign up trump got his wall, after all a small but dedicated crew of hardliners has created bureaucratic barriers that are far harder to overcome than any hunk of concrete on the southern border. rachel morris what if the world treated the u.s. like a rogue state under trump, the united states is capsizing the climate, emboldening dictators and trashing diplomatic norms. in the corridors of power in brussels, paris and berlin, the idea of sanctions sounds less outlandish by the day. samanth subramanian behold, the millennial nuns more young women are being called to the religious life than at any point in the past 50 years. eve fairbanks explains what millennial nuns are searching for. eve fairbanks f. lee bailey o.j. simpson's former attorney may be barred from practicing law in several states, but absolutely no one can stop him from roasting his enemies. by wil s. hylton parkland is tearing itself apart and the fight within the still-grieving community has nothing to do with gun control. by kathryn joyce the exceptional life of paul coates a conversation with the longtime publisher and former black panther whose son ta-nehisi just so happens to be america's most influential writer. by wil s. hylton the creeping capitalist takeover of higher education just a few years ago, universities had a chance to make a quality education affordable for everyone. here's the little-known and absolutely infuriating history of what they did instead. a report by kevin carey the secret baby catchers of alabama they set up shop in hotel rooms, sterile airbnbs and secondhand rvs just over the state line, so that women can give birth on their own terms. by rebecca grant “i looked around at our whole family, and the kids running around, and i thought, ‘i’m never going to have this,’ and i started to cry.” together alone the epidemic of gay loneliness. by michael hobbes i’m still here clancy martin's moving behind-the-scenes look at life inside a psych ward after another one of his suicide attempts. by clancy martin the best way to save people from suicide a deep exploration of the motto method, the one intervention that has dramatically reduced suicide deaths. by jason cherkis is tom perez up for the fight? the democratic national committee chair on whether trump is a racist, why the dnc is open to donations from fossil fuel companies and why he thinks his party still has a shot at the senate. by wil s. hylton everything you know about obesity is wrong for decades, the medical community has ignored mountains of evidence to wage a cruel and futile war on fat people, poisoning public perception and ruining millions of lives. it’s time for a new paradigm. by michael hobbes “do you have any idea how much we earn off migrants? drugs are less profitable.” the 21st century gold rush how the refugee crisis is changing the world economy. by malia politzer and emily kassie the slow, highly provisional evolution of glenn greenwald he believes the democrats are on the verge of collapse, the media is a joke and the security state is turning us all into mini-imperialists. but he finally admits that there might be something to this russia business. by wil s. hylton inhuman resources mike picarella wanted to protect a co-worker from humiliating sexual harassment. he didn't expect his own life to be destroyed in the process by david dayen understanding harvey power alone does not explain the abuses of famous men. by emily yoffe when the punishment feels like a crime brock turner's twisted legacy and michele dauber's relentless pursuit of justice. by julia ioffe “if you wear a trump hat in many places, you might as well be wearing a swastika.” my journey to the center of the alt-right i went to a white nationalist ethnostate in indiana. i got bounced from a secret meeting in d.c. i spent weeks figuring out how hate gurgles up from the nastiest recesses of the internet. and i’m sorry to report that unconscionable racists will be a force in american politics well beyond november 8. by luke o’brien the unlikely upside of cape town's drought what are human beings capable of when it feels as if the world is about to end? by eve fairbanks mike pence’s man in the swamp the vice president’s trusted chief of staff is young, handsome, talented and rich. he’s also got some skeletons. by vicky ward jerry and marge go large gaming the lottery seemed as good a retirement plan as any. by jason fagone the disaster tourist for just $2,500, you too could be responsible for a geopolitical calamity. by kent russell “i did flash a camera below her skirt as she stood next to me. it was intended for shock value only.” out here, no one can hear you scream why some women in national parks and forests have a tougher time than women in the military. by kathryn joyce millennials are screwed why millennials are facing the scariest financial future of any generation since the great depression. by michael hobbes four quitters walk into a bar... to swap war stories from an administration they couldn’t serve for one more minute. by lydia polgreen photographs by stephen voss and so jedidiah brown gave all of himself to the city he loved a new generation of black leaders confronts the anguish of activism. by ben austen reunited for families divided by the border, there is one place where they are allowed to come together—almost. documentary by laura gabbert text by daniel hernandez “doctors would be offered paid speaking fees based on the number of risperdal prescriptions they wrote.“ america’s most admired lawbreaker over the course of 20 years, johnson & johnson created a powerful drug, promoted it illegally to children and the elderly, covered up the side effects and made billions of dollars. this is the inside story. by steven brill why america needs ebonics now when white people want to do something experimental in education, it’s called charter schools or experiential learning. when black people do it, it’s called identity politics. by michael hobbes the super predators when the man who abuses you is also a cop. by melissa jeltsen and dana liebelson what bullets do to bodies the gun debate would change in an instant if americans witnessed the horrors that trauma surgeons confront everyday. by jason fagone this is how the next world war starts with one miscalculation, by one startled pilot, at 400 miles an hour. and now that russia is determined to destabilize the west, this scenario is keeping the military establishment up at night. by david wood the blow-it-all-up billionaires when politicians take money from megadonors, there are strings attached. but with the reclusive duo who propelled trump into the white house, there’s a fuse. by vicky ward the untold pre-history of the clarence thomas hearings “sexual harassment” wasn’t even a term until 1975. by michael hobbes revenge of the lunch lady how an unassuming bureaucrat outsmarted jamie oliver and pulled off an honest-to-god miracle in one of america’s unhealthiest cities. by jane black hooked for life inside the nfl's relentless, existential, big tobacco-style pursuit of your children. by george dohrmann is ivanka for real? one of the greatest enigmas of 2016, explained. by hannah seligson sandra bland died one year ago and since then, at least 810 people have lost their lives in jail. by dana liebelson & ryan j. reilly sad! these three campaign gurus for jeb bush, ted cruz and marco rubio have had some time to reflect on this nightmare of a campaign. and do they ever have stories to tell. by sam stein meet the ungers several decades ago, 229 men and one woman were convicted of terrible crimes. they thought they were going to die in prison. but then, many years later, in a nerve-wracking experiment, they received an unimagined second chance. by jason fagone trump at war how the military is preparing for the possibility of a wild card in the situation room. by andy kroll drugs you don’t need for disorders you don’t have inside the pharmaceutical industry’s campaign to put us all to sleep. by jonathan cohn the myth of the ethical shopper we’re still trying to eliminate sweatshops and child labor by buying right. but that’s not how the world works in 2015. by michael hobbes how mark zuckerberg should give away $45 billion it’s complicated. by michael hobbes american electoral seven crucial days on the campaign trail. by jack hitt & kevin baker ‘i woke up in a parallel universe’ six months ago, the worst thing that ever happened to me was the biggest news on the internet. now… by jackie fuchs the shooting gallery when correctional officers carry shotguns, the result is death and mayhem. by dana liebelson love in the age of big data scientists believe they’ve discovered a simple formula for happy relationships. reader, i tried it. by eve fairbanks cruel and all-too-usual a terrifying glimpse into life in prison—as a kid. by dana liebelson they burn witches here and then they upload the photos to social media. a journey to an island caught between the ancient world and 2015. by kent russell instruments of oppression thousands of rape victims around the world undergo grisly and unsafe abortions because of u.s. policy. obama could change this with a single executive action. why hasn’t he? by laura bassett scenes from a marriage the worst relationship between a u.s. president and an israeli prime minister ever ... as autopsied by the people closest to them. by tal shalev & amir tibon lagarde-ian of the galaxy the first female chief of the imf on the greek meltdown, a historic refugee crisis and one thing hillary clinton has in common with an “old crocodile.” by isaac chotiner his town yousef al-otaiba is the most charming man in washington: he’s slick, he’s savvy and he throws one hell of a party. and if he has his way, our middle east policy is going to get a lot more aggressive. by ryan grim and akbar shahid ahmed mothers of isis their children abandoned them to join the worst terror organization on earth. now all they have is each other. by julia ioffe stop the madness there’s a miraculous new treatment for schizophrenia that could transform the way we treat mental illness. and then there are the terrible reasons why most medical professionals have never heard of it. by jonathan cohn welcome to beautiful parkersburg, west virginia home to one of the most brazen, deadly corporate gambits in u.s. history. by mariah blake the lost girls one famous band. one huge secret. many lives destroyed. by jason cherkis let’s go full crocodile, ladies a documentary that disappeared more than 40 years ago—available to everyone for the first time here—is a gift to modern-day feminists. it’s belligerent, it’s hilarious, and it reveals exactly what the clinton campaign is missing. by rebecca traister the life and death of an amazon warehouse temp what the future of low-wage work really looks like. by dave jamieson what is highline? let us explain. by greg veis and rachel morris huffpost highline about us who we are contact us privacy policy terms of service