about shop blog book radical self love events about shop blog book radical self love events radical self love advice style beauty carousel travel high vibe honey: week of 23rd february 2020 + what to do if you feel lonely! high vibe honey do you struggle with feeling lonely or alone? hilariously, you’re not alone! loneliness is an epidemic, and in fact, it’s the number one public health crisis. we are increasingly disconnected from one another, while at the same time we have more opportunities to connect than ever. so if you find it hard to make friends, this video is made especially for you! i promise you, it’s way more simple — and way more fun! — than you think. plus, we do eft tapping at the end to relax you and help attract in some badass babes to be your new besties! « high vibe honey: week of 16th february 2020 + how to find your passion! high vibe honey: week of 16th february 2020 + how to find your passion! 02.16.2020 · high vibe honey if you’ve ever struggled with knowing how to find your passion, this video is about to tell you everything you’ve ever needed to know. the good news is that discovering your passion is even easier than you think! plus, we do some eft tapping at the end to really bring it all into focus. you’ll […] read more high vibe honey: week of 9th february 2020 + how to feel good every single day! 02.09.2020 · high vibe honey so many of us give away our power, thinking that our happiness is conditional upon other people’s behavior. this is the quickest way to feel resentful and exhausted. in this video, i talk about what it takes to feel good every day. i promise, this is a superpower that is available to you right now! […] read more high vibe honey: week of 2nd february 2020 + how to access your inner bad bitch! 02.02.2020 · high vibe honey there’s a bad bitch lingering inside you, just crying for permission to come out and play! in this video, i teach you how to access your inner bad bitch once and for all. plus, we do some tapping to unlock the most magical parts of you that you’ve been hiding away! read more high vibe honey: week of 22nd april 2019 + tapping that i am powerful! 04.21.2019 · high vibe honey hi beautiful, welcome to another high vibe honey! i’m writing this from disneyland — yay! — where i am celebrating natalia benson’s birthday. i can’t wait to buy myself yet another pair of ears and ride the haunted mansion until ghosts are coming out of my ears! this week’s high vibe honey is about knowing […] read more voted most popular voted most popular wonderland sessions #1: feeling good! read more voted most popular sacred mornings: experience your full radiance while the sun comes up read more voted most popular how to change your mindset (and save your relationship) read more high vibe honey: week of 15th april 2019 + tapping that i am so abundant and grateful! 04.15.2019 · high vibe honey good morning baby! i was up until 5.30 this morning with some of my friends from new york. the evening started as a poetry reading, and when we went next door to get a drink afterwards, it turned out that we were in the most fun karaoke bar ever! (my jay-z flow is available to […] read more high vibe honey: week of 8th april 2019 + tapping that i can have anything! 04.07.2019 · high vibe honey hello from beautiful palm springs! i decided to get out of los angeles this weekend, and it turned out to be the best decision ever! i’m typing this as i lie beside a turquoise swimming pool in my bikini and drink a huge bottle of sparkling water. blissful! before i drove out here, though, i […] read more high vibe honey: week of 1st april 2019 + tapping to be ready for a new adventure! 04.01.2019 · high vibe honey hands up if you’ve had a weird and wild week! oh my goodness. me too! the tail end of mercury retrograde is always a doozy. holy shit. but we have survived! so, onward and upward… of course, the cards i pulled this week absolutely verify everything we’ve experienced. in fact, they tell us that, even […] read more high vibe honey: week of 25th march 2019 + tapping that it is safe to let go! 03.25.2019 · high vibe honey hooray! baby, it’s a new astrological year, and we have new audio equipment to celebrate! what did we ever do to get so damn lucky?! i hope that you can hear the difference and that it gives you a thrill! yay! in this week’s high vibe honey, the cards tell us that glorious things are […] read more high vibe honey: week of 18th march 2019 + tapping that i am unstoppable! 03.18.2019 · high vibe honey happy monday you gorgeous creature! this week’s high vibe honey isn’t just about cards. we talk about whether feeling good is a privilege of the lucky few, and what to do if you feel like your life might never improve. plus i mention the recent events in new zealand (my homeland) and talk about what […] read more @galadarling on instagram load more... about shop blog book radical self love events instagram twitter facebook youtube pinterest contact love@galadarling.com subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content! © darling industries. all rights reserved. design and development by we are branch. | disclaimer subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content!