call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact high net worth mortgage advice – leeds it is often the case that individuals with a high net worth will struggle to find lenders that have the right kind of expertise that will cater to their needs. at freedom advice, we know that getting a mortgage as a high net worth individual can be a frustrating and complex process. our mortgage advisors have provided expert advice to individuals with a high net worth for over 20 years, which is why we are one of the go-to mortgage brokers in the leeds and yorkshire region. getting the best mortgage for you with a large and trusted financial network at hand, we work and liaise with select high street and private banks to get the best possible mortgage deal for you. with advisors that are specially trained to deal with specialist mortgages, we provide a flexible service that can offer advice on a variety of options, including: mortgages for residential and investment properties. large mortgage loans. bespoke lending solutions. interest only options. options for short term financing. solutions for residents earning in a foreign currency and foreign nationals. mortgage solutions for individuals with complex income arrangements. how freedom advice can help we know that there is a varied and wide range of mortgage choices and solutions for high net worth individuals, which is why we are dedicated to finding our clients the very best rates and mortgages for their personal situation. having helped high net worth individuals throughout leeds and yorkshire for over 20 years, we have strong and trusted relationships throughout the area, which means we are better placed to help you succeed in acquiring the best possible rates. if you’d like to know more about freedom advice, call us on 0113 829 3465, or check out our contact page. call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.