skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged high-contrast it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 3 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. article march 12, 2020 programming sass to create accessible color combinations author jason hogue 7 comments join conversation we are always looking to make the web more accessible. color contrast is just math, so sass can help cover edge cases that designers might have missed. accessibility accessibility color high-contrast article february 19, 2020 understanding web accessibility color contrast guidelines and ratios author stacie arellano 6 comments join conversation what should you do when you get a complaint about the color contrast in your web design? it might seem perfectly fine to you because you’re able to read content throughout the site, but to someone else, it might be a totally different experience. how can put yourself in that person’s shoes to improve their experience? there are some relatively easy ways to test contrast. for example, you can check the site on your phone or tablet in bright sunlight … read article “understanding web accessibility color contrast guidelines and ratios” accessibility accessibility color high-contrast article september 22, 2016 accessible svgs in high contrast mode author eric bailey 3 comments go to comments making your svg accessible includes adding extra steps to your workflow, but is well-worth it. by embracing clean, semantic markup and taking advantage of some of the less well-known features of css, you can create easily maintainable solutions that include considerations for low vision, a condition that affects a not-insignificant amount of the population. rather than writing and maintaining complicated and brittle state-managing javascript, work with existing browser capabilities such as media queries to easily make the experience accommodate … read article “accessible svgs in high contrast mode” accessibility high-contrast svg how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers