home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog project bikini body workout may 4, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment bikini body workout it's almost time to slip on that bikini and head to the beach. how exciting, right?!?! if you're anything like me, you've been planning your trips to the beach or thinking about finally booking that catamaran boat you've been eyeing all winter long. gosh wasn't this past winter just terrible by the way?! if you're looking for a good cardio workout, … [read more...] puma punisher workout september 3, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i hope everyone had a fabulous labor day weekend! it was nice to have a long weekend where we weren't traveling the whole time. it was a nice change. on saturday morning, i got to try out my new puma shoes that they sent me to try. they are called puma formlite which are reasonably priced at about $60! the coolest part of these shoes is their weight. they are by far the … [read more...] the kick your button leg workout july 23, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i've got a killer leg workout for you guys today. it's a tough one!!! hover over the image and pin it to pinterest so you don't forget to try this workout later! note: be careful with the bench jumps. at that point in the workout, your legs should already be fatigued, so if you don't feel comfortable doing them, you can skip that part (or move them to the … [read more...] new clutch sneakers june 25, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment there's nothing better than coming home from work to a big box waiting for you outside your house, right?! especially when you see it's from puma and they want you to try out their latest kicks! they are the bioweb elite high-rise shoes. i got them in the curacao/jasmine color. super cute! gosh i'm such a workout shoe fanatic. i love new "sneakers" as i call … [read more...] clutch cut – day 2 – cardio june 22, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment well today was day 2 of ashley conrad's 21 day clutch cut from bodybuilding.com. it was an only cardio day today...no weight training. here's a look at how the cardio was designed for today. hiit training: repeat the circuit 10x walk (1 minute) jog (30 seconds) sprint (1 minute) i personally think the best way to do sprints is outdoors because your body can change … [read more...] clean pizza saved the day august 2, 2012 by erin weiss 2 comments i took a much needed rest day yesterday. my entire body was sore so it felt like a good day to let my body recover. here's a look at my recent training i've done lately. weekly workouts: (7/27 – 8/3) friday – shoulders/abs & 25 min steady state cardio saturday – color run 5k (walk/jogged steady state cardio) sunday – back/biceps monday - booty lift leg … [read more...] my long weekend june 25, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment today is my first day back to work since last wednesday. i sooo enjoyed having a few days off from work. i liked it so much, i think i'm ready to retire. wouldn't that be nice! my weekend started wednesday after work. we headed to my boyfriend's hometown to meet his nephew for the first time. he was so stinkin' adorable!! thursday night i was able to just lay low and … [read more...] i ran fast! june 14, 2012 by erin weiss 3 comments last night, i went to the gym rockin' my new savage girl shirt for the first time. i don't know what it is about wearing something new to the gym, but it makes me work extra hard. it's kind of like wearing a new outfit when you go out with your friends. you get a new confidence or something...at least i do. this picture was taken pre-workout. you would not have … [read more...] summer sprints workout may 31, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments i figured it was about time to post another one of my hiit workouts. i needed a new treadmill sprint workout that would get me beach body ready for the summer! this is a tough workout that puts your legs to work! do this workout on a treadmill. set your treadmill to an incline of 1%. begin by warming up at a 3.8 speed for 2 minutes. after the 2 minute warm-up, … [read more...] crossing my fingers! march 29, 2012 by erin weiss 7 comments so i'm just too excited, nervous & anxious about something that i can't hold it in anymore. i've gotta tell ya! about a month ago, one of my best girlfriends entered a contest for us to win a girls vacation to the bahamas. we obviously didn't think anything would come out of it...until we made it to the semi-finals!!! we submitted a huge questionnaire and what do ya know?? … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in