programs back to menu programming and development back to menu programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence back to menu programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing back to menu programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science back to menu programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business back to menu programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems back to menu programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career back to menu career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise back to menu overview our approach solution about us sign in get started programs programming and development programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise overview our approach solution about us sign in get started find your next great hire with us bridge the growing tech talent gap by tapping into udacity’s global talent program. use our online tool to browse, filter by skills and location, and find your ideal hire today. access udacity talent why hire udacity talent? looking for highly-skilled, non-traditional talent sources? udacity candidates are lifelong learners. they’ve built practical skills in our industry-vetted programs in fields like data science, artificial intelligence, autonomous systems, and machine learning. we make it easy for you to source candidates matched to your specific requirements. udacity’s ai-powered, easy to use platform stack ranks qualified candidates with the skills your company needs. hire with confidence udacity’s project-based nanodegree programs provide practical, job-ready talent with proven technical skills and ability to solve real-world problems. streamline your search browse our global pool of thousands of job-ready candidates. filter for select skills and locations, and track application status. automated communications offer personalized introductions to in-demand talent. stay ahead of the competition our talent pool is constantly evolving to ensure you have access to the most in-demand skills when you need them. how it works we make it easy to source skilled candidates. simply tell us your hiring needs to become a preferred employer. once approved, you receive access to the glider.ai platform to source udacity talent. 01. become a preferred employer apply for access to our curated database of in-demand talent. 02. select the skills you need upload a job description and select desired skills. 03. choose candidates to interview scroll through stack ranked candidates and invite selected candidates to apply with a single click. “we’ve been blown away by the calibre of students we’ve seen from udacity’s existing nanodegree programs, and we’re looking forward to meeting this new generation of robotics engineers.” drew gray, former director of engineering at uber atg, current cto at voyage “hiring today demands a global talent solution we have full confidence in. the udacity graduates we hire always excel.” peeyush ranjan, former cto at flipkart “we’re proud to partner with udacity on the robotics nanodegree program to hire the brightest minds who will help us create the brightest future.” travis coomer, vp engineering & technology at lockheed martin “we are excited to partner with udacity to get access to a global pipeline of talented individuals prepared to kick off a career in digital marketing.” clara jacobasch, employer branding at zalando get started fill out this simple application to access in-demand talent today. access udacity talent featured programs product manager ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow data streaming ux designer java developer ai product manager sensor fusion engineer data visualization cloud developer cloud dev ops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms marketing analytics data engineer android basics android developer ios developer business analytics data analyst front end web developer full stack web developer intro to programming intro to machine learning with pytorch machine learning engineer predictive analytics for business programming for data science with python react only at udacity artificial intelligence deep learning digital marketing flying car and autonomous flight engineer intro to self-driving cars machine learning engineer robotics software engineer self-driving car engineer udacity schools school of artificial intelligence school of autonomous systems school of business school of data science school of programming school of cloud computing resources catalog career resource center career services hire talent get hired student success udacity talks scholarships what is ai? talk to an advisor programs veterans georgia tech company about blog in the news jobs become an instructor udacity intersect enterprise udacity for enterprise hire talent support contact us help and faq service status tech requirements © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. legal & privacy site map united states china "nanodegree" is a registered trademark of udacity. © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. udacity is not an accredited university and we don't confer traditional degrees. udacity nanodegree programs represent collaborations with our industry partners who help us develop our content and who hire many of our program graduates. we use cookies to optimize site functionality, personalize content and ads, and give you the best possible experience. learn more accept cookie preferences