home nanodegree catalog my classroom category: hiring and recruiting career guidance, hiring and recruiting how to get employable skills without “on-the-job” experience start learning it’s a common conundrum. you’ve worked hard, learned a lot, and are ready to take on your next professional challenge. but…no one will hire or promote you because you don’t have the right work experience. but you can’t get the right experience because no one will give you a shot. the cycle never ends. regardless of whether you’re switching fields, just starting your career, or gunning for your next promotion, if you find yourself stuck in the “work experience” gridlock, you must create your own experiences to make up for it. continue reading hiring and recruiting, instructors, learning and motivation learning through storytelling—michael dedrick, udacity instructor learn more jean luc godard said, “sometimes reality is too complex. stories give it form.” and while a quote from the french new wave film director might be an unusual place to start a blog about one of udacity’s instructors, michael dedrick would, no doubt, agree with the sentiment. “storytelling is key to all aspects of teaching and working in tech,” says michael. “from the portfolios, you create while searching for a job, to the curricula you create while teaching a class, everything is a story. your portfolio tells your story to employers. it shows how you created the work. and, ultimately, you hope your story is more engaging and more pleasing to the employer than the stories told by others who are competing for the same job!” continue reading career guidance, hiring and recruiting, instructors, learning and motivation designing a new path – melissa hui, udacity instructor learn more some people have such an innate understanding of a subject that being in their very presence makes you feel like you’re learning something, almost through osmosis. udacity instructor, melissa hui, is one of those people. talking to her is a revelation. melissa is the founder and principal of context leap, an agency specializing in employing human-centered design to help organizations manage culture transformation, empower leadership, and discover how to work in more productive, creative, and innovative ways. continue reading hiring and recruiting, tech trends and your company, udacity for enterprise the future of work is all about your skills the future of work won’t be about college degrees. it’ll be about skills. that’s the new global reality shaping the job market. highest performing organizations are reinvesting in their talent to fuel profits and business growth. by investing in training and development efforts, companies can enable their well-rounded employees to perfect their set of skills to succeed in their jobs. the reality is that employers are looking for more than knowledge — they want skills, top-tier tech companies such as google, apple, and ibm have gone public “offering well-paying jobs to those with nontraditional education.” for these and many other companies, a solid, skills-centered non-formal education is all that separates ambitious students from top-paying jobs. a formal education is no longer the best path to launching a successful career. the skills gap is widening and companies are struggling to find the right talent. a recent gartner research supports this premise by highlighting that companies need to shift from external hiring strategies towards their current workforces and apply risk mitigation strategies for critical talent shortages. according to gartner, most organizations are undergoing a digital transformation that directly impacts how they do business, yet 70 percent of employees have not mastered the skills they need for their jobs today, and 80 percent of employees do not have the skills needed for their current and future roles. re-skilling was also hot topic in this year’s davos event. according to a world economic forum report released just ahead of the event, a total of 1.4 million us workers might lose their jobs over the next decade as a result of new technological changes and inadequate skills compete effectively. however, the report found, it will be possible to transition 95 percent of at-risk workers into positions that have similar skills and higher wages through re-skilling. the report further indicates that the rapid evolution of machines and algorithms in the workplace could create 133 million new roles in place of 75 million that will be displaced between now and 2022. too often, college degrees have been thought of as lifelong stamps of professional competency, perpetuating the notion that work — and the knowledge it requires — is static. the shift to a skills-based economy enables individuals to compete for employment based on what they can do for a company. at the same time it gives companies a tremendous opportunity to more efficiently integrate continual learning into work routines and implement reskilling and upskilling initiatives. here at udacity we are working with global companies to help them: launch an upskilling initiative across their company (communicate the mission, how employees can get involved, what is expected of them, duration and how success is measured) develop flexible learning journeys to help employees reach the next level and prepare for tomorrow encourage our stakeholder(s) to invest in frequent, regular communications about the employee experience work collectively to employ incentives, learning models, leadership communications, and other motivational campaigns to drive completion rate of upskilling programs. udacity for enterprise provides tailored, end-to-end learning paths for your company and entire workforce. we’ll help companies choose the right learning path for their workforce and help their high-performing employees continue to gain the right skills to excel and innovate. let’s get started. artificial intelligence, digital transformation, hiring and recruiting, tech trends and your company, udacity for enterprise, workforce transformation the talent right in front of you when you invest in the education of your employees, you give your company the gift of a long-term solution to your talent needs (originally posted on blog.udacity.com. written by christopher watkins) the following quote has been variously attributed to everyone from lao tzu to maimonides to anne isabella thackeray ritchie: “give someone a fish, and you feed them for a day. teach someone to fish, and you feed them for a lifetime.” given its ubiquity throughout modern history, it’s clearly a resonant message, and part of its appeal has to do with its broad applicability—it’s germane to so many different use cases. the quote is generally interpreted as a lesson about self-sufficiency, but it’s also sage advice when thinking about short-term “band-aids” vs. long-term solutions. why solve something for a day, only to have the same problem again tomorrow? why not embrace a long-term solution that eliminates the problem once and for all? hiring managers and recruiters confront this issue every day. after all, hiring is essentially an act of problem-solving—a company has a need, and the right hiring decision will solve for it. but what is the right hiring decision? if you’re a company in need of talent, the solution is often right in front of you! let’s take the example of a company website. company x is a small company. they have a website, but it’s not very good, and it’s becoming a problem. they need a new site, but no one internally has the skills to do the work. what should company x do? one solution is to hire someone from outside their organization to do the work. in theory, this makes sense, because professionals will know what to do, and how to do it. the challenges with this approach, however, are multi-fold. one obvious issue, is that there’s no real way to know whether the outside entity will do a good job. but the bigger question is, how can you know whether they’ll “get” you? a website isn’t just functional. it’s a symbol of brand identity. it communicates values as much as it provides services. so you want to work with someone who understands who you are as a company. finding an outside entity that is both reliable, and that understands your brand, is difficult, and even if you do find someone, they’re not yours for keeps. they do the work, then they’re off to the next client. hiring an outside entity often results in a “fed for a day” solution. if all goes well, you’ll get your new site, but as your company expands and evolves, you’ll be hungry again soon. so what’s the alternative? if you’re in a company x kind of a situation, take a moment to look around you. what do you see? chances are, what you see are dedicated, reliable, hardworking individuals who are committed to your company, and who most definitely “get” you. but at first glance, you might not be seeing the people who can build your new site. or are you? here at udacity, we think you are! we think there are people at your company right now, who are just a nanodegree program away from giving you exactly what you need. don’t believe us? poll your employees today. find out whether someone at your company harbors an interest in web development. chances are, there’s someone who’d jump at this kind of opportunity. so, here’s a suggestion for companies in need of talent. instead of investing in a one-time, short-term approach, invest in a nanodegree program on behalf of one or more of your employees instead, and give your company the gift of a long-term solution to your talent needs. employees, this is an action item for you as well. if you’ve got a passion for something, and you think pursuing your passion can help your company, speak up! that’s what kat halo did. her company hired someone else to do their marketing, but kat knew she could do a better job. she took it upon herself to learn digital marketing with udacity, and now, she’s doing marketing for her company! there are a great many tangible benefits to hiring from within. a recent careerbuilder article affirms that you’ll save money and see better performance, and adam foroughi, writing for entrepreneur, notes the following: motivated employees work harder. opportunity, happy people = higher retention. internal hires adapt better to new roles. and finally, as noted in a recent article from inc., “wharton research shows that external hires cost18 to 20 percent more than those promoted from within.” in a world marked by rapid technological advancement, more and more companies all across the hiring landscape are embracing digital transformation initiatives, and this is leading them to look anew at the talent within their own ranks. at udacity, our enterprise team works directly with hundreds of different companies who are investing in their employees by proactively offering opportunities to reskill and upskill through our nanodegree programs. if you’re not yet investing in the talent you already have, now’s a really good time to consider doing so! let’s now return to our quote: “give someone a fish, and you feed them for a day. teach someone to fish, and you feed them for a lifetime.” the key lesson here lies in the distinction between “a day” and “a lifetime.” as a company, when it comes to making hiring decisions, you want to invest in a long-term solution that works for the long term, and that’s what investing in the development of existing employees is all about. when you need talent, you often need look no further than the people right in front of you. hiring and recruiting, udacity for enterprise your next great tech hire may not have a computer science degree. and that’s a good thing qualifications, credentials, and experience remain vital considerations when assessing candidate suitability for a key role. we’re not here to debate that. what we are here to do is to propose a rethink about what constitutes applicable (read: relevant!) qualifications, credentials, and experience. because what you really need in your candidates today, can’t necessarily be measured by traditional means. what you need are people with lifelong commitments to learning, the ability to easily and quickly adapt, growth mindsets, and a fluent command of modern tools and technological advances. continue reading hiring and recruiting, udacity for enterprise, workforce planning and management rethinking how you hire? some companies are changing the game altogether there was a time when a college degree was virtually the sole measure of job-readiness. that time is gone. there are simply too many other, more effective ways to find and vet crucial talent. that’s not to say a college degree can’t be a key factor; it can. but in today’s hiring environment, the need for specific skillsets is too intense, the pace of change too rapid, the competition too fierce. companies often need truly rarefied talent, and they’re realizing a college degree is no longer the best determinant of suitability. agility and flexibility are vital, real-world experience, critical. there is a genuine need to reevaluate hiring practices, and the most innovative companies are already doing so. continue reading posts navigation older posts click below to download your preferred career guide web developer career guide cloud career guide data career guide robotics career guide advance your career enter your email below to download one of our free career guides country codeunited states - 1canada - 1india - 91albania - 355algeria - 213american samoa - 1-684anguilla - 1-264antarctica - 672antigua and barbuda - 1-268argentina - 54armenia - 374aruba - 297australia - 61austria - 43azerbaijan - 994bahamas - 1-242bahrain - 973bangladesh - 880barbados - 1-246belarus - 375belgium - 32belize - 501bermuda - 1-441bhutan - 975bolivia - 591bosnia and herzegovina - 387botswana - 267brazil - 55british indian ocean territory - 246british virgin islands - 1-284brunei - 673bulgaria - 359burundi - 257cambodia - 855cameroon - 237canada - 1cape verde - 238cayman islands - 1-345central african republic - 236chile - 56china - 86colombia - 57costa rica - 506croatia - 385curacao - 599cyprus - 357czech republic - 420democratic republic of the congo - 243denmark - 45dominica - 1-767dominican republic - 1-809, 1-829, 1-849ecuador - 593egypt - 20el salvador - 503equatorial guinea - 240estonia - 372ethiopia - 251falkland islands - 500faroe islands - 298fiji - 679finland - 358france - 33french polynesia - 689georgia - 995germany - 49ghana - 233gibraltar - 350greece - 30greenland - 299grenada - 1-473guam - 1-671guatemala - 502guinea - 224haiti - 509honduras - 504hong kong - 852hungary - 36iceland - 354india - 91indonesia - 62iraq - 964ireland - 353isle of man - 44-1624israel - 972italy - 39ivory coast - 225jamaica - 1-876japan - 81jordan - 962kazakhstan - 7kenya - 254kosovo - 383kuwait - 965kyrgyzstan - 996latvia - 371lebanon - 961lesotho - 266liberia - 231libya - 218liechtenstein - 423lithuania - 370luxembourg - 352macau - 853macedonia - 389madagascar - 261malawi - 265malaysia - 60maldives - 960mali - 223malta - 356marshall islands - 692mayotte - 262mexico - 52moldova - 373monaco - 377mongolia - 976montenegro - 382morocco - 212mozambique - 258myanmar - 95namibia - 264nauru - 674nepal - 977netherlands - 31netherlands antilles - 599new caledonia - 687new zealand - 64nicaragua - 505niger - 227nigeria - 234northern mariana islands - 1-670norway - 47pakistan - 92palestine - 970panama - 507papua new guinea - 675paraguay - 595peru - 51philippines - 63poland - 48portugal - 351puerto rico - 1-787, 1-939qatar - 974romania - 40russia - 7rwanda - 250saint lucia - 1-758saint martin - 590saint vincent and the grenadines - 1-784san marino - 378saudi arabia - 966serbia - 381sierra leone - 232singapore - 65slovakia - 421slovenia - 386solomon islands - 677south africa - 27south korea - 82spain - 34sri lanka - 94sudan - 249swaziland - 268sweden - 46switzerland - 41taiwan - 886tanzania - 255thailand - 66trinidad and tobago - 1-868tunisia - 216turkey - 90turkmenistan - 993turks and caicos islands - 1-649u.s. virgin islands - 1-340uganda - 256ukraine - 380united arab emirites - 971united kingdom - 44united states - 1uruguay - 598uzbekistan - 998vatican - 379venezuela - 58vietnam - 84zimbabwe - 263other i agree i consent and agree to receive email marketing communications from udacity. choose your guide you have successfully subscribed! by entering your information above and clicking “choose your guide”, you consent to receive marketing communications from udacity, which may include email messages, autodialed texts and phone calls about udacity products or services at the email and mobile number provided above. udacity or its providers typically send a max of [5] messages per month. message and data rates may apply. you understand that consent is not a condition of purchase. you may reply stop at any time to cancel, and help for help. read the full terms of use and our privacy policy, or learn more about udacity sms on our faq. categories announcements artificial intelligence career guidance digital transformation featured blogs free courses hiring and recruiting instructors learning and motivation mentor stories product management scholarships school of ai school of autonomous systems school of business school of cloud computing school of data science school of programming self driving car student success tech tips tech trends and your company udacity for enterprise uncategorized workforce planning and management workforce transformation popular nanodegree programs c++ data engineer ai product manager full stack web developer ux designer programming for data science with python latest posts product management methodologies: agile vs waterfall vs scrum vs kanban udacity leads effort to upskill laid-off workers with new scholarship udacity’s contribution to the covid-19 crisis: one free month access to nanodegree programs 10 nanodegree programs later… a dream job | student story c++ maps explained popular nanodegree programs vr developer self-driving car engineer data analyst ios developer front-end web developer machine learning engineer android developer student resources blog career resource center help & faq catalog veteran programs mobile scholarships hiring partners udacity about in the news jobs @ udacity georgia tech udacity for business hire graduates student success inquiries contact us legal service status site map nanodegree is a trademark of udacity. © 2011-2020 udacity, inc. × subscribe to our newsletter learning = growing sign up for udacity blog updates to get the latest in guidance and inspiration as you discover programming, web development, data science, and more. submit