welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog 3 spooky courses for the halloween season published on: oct 31, 2017 by justine goulart 3415 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post whether you celebrate halloween, all hallows’ eve, día de los muertos (day of the dead) or just like to get dressed up and go trick or treating for candy, these spooky courses will give you a bit of a scare as you learn about the origins of human fossils, our skeletons, unravel the mysteries and the meanings of life and death and explore the history and... read more about 3 spooky courses for the halloween season edx welcomes the university of newcastle published on: sep 27, 2016 by johannes heinlein 5761 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are honored to announce that the university of newcastle, a research-intensive institution with an exceptional record of achievement in research and education, has joined edx. as an institution with a strong commitment to equity of access to higher education, the university of newcastle (uon) shares edx’s mission to bring high-quality education to all learners, everywhere. the first course offered by uon is a first-of-its-kind mooc... read more about edx welcomes the university of newcastle online courses starting in april – start learning to set yourself up for success published on: apr 03, 2016 by monil shah 6326 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post online courses are growing in popularity and changing lives. a recent survey from the pewresearch centre found that nearly 73% of adults consider themselves lifelong learners. outside of just life-long learning, nearly 63% of working adults have taken a class or received extra training to improve job skills, to get a raise or promotion or to find a new job or career. for this group of “professional... read more about online courses starting in april – start learning to set yourself up for success opening up rome’s architecture published on: mar 15, 2016 by the meaning of rome course team 4439 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post today marks the ides of march. this day not only signifies a particular day on the roman calendar, but it is also the day julius caesar was assassinated, igniting a turning point in roman history with the transition of the roman republic to the roman empire. shakespeare’s play julius caesar infamously warns us to “beware the ides of march.” this ides of march learn more about the remarkable city of rome, its history, culture and architecture in the meaning of rome:... read more about opening up rome’s architecture music, finance and history. courses starting soon on edx! published on: jan 15, 2016 by justine goulart 4480 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post explore our courses and enroll today! learn how to better prepare for a natural coastal disaster, identify important aspects of music just by listening to it or build a movie recommendation search engine using python. edx has exciting new courses starting soon in a variety of subjects to help enhance your skills and knowledge. chemistry, history and career development. courses starting soon on edx! published on: nov 06, 2015 by justine goulart 5436 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn the chemistry behind wine making, the best path for your career, how the stars and galaxies were formed,i’ or how data is stored and managed on the internet. with over 700 courses in a wide variety of subjects, check out edx courses that are right for you and enroll today! learn about genetics, medicine, history and more with new edx courses published on: oct 23, 2015 by justine goulart 5855 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post discover the thrill of learning how to code, understand the science behind election issues and voting, or become a more informed consumer about medicine. edx has exciting new courses starting soon in a range in topics, from business to physics. explore our courses and enroll today! learn about ancient greek warfare, international law and huck finn on edx this week! published on: apr 24, 2015 by mukta g 4364 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this week on edx, learn the basics of computer science, explore how international law is created and enforced, see warfare through the eyes of literary greatness, or dive into your linear differential equations course. check out the courses starting this week! pamela: edx sheds light on justice, history published on: apr 21, 2015 by becky pineo 3690 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post my brother, who is a teacher, told me about edx. he recommended several other online education sites, but the edx.org courses appeal to me the most. i completed justice from harvardx, which was very different from what i thought i was getting into – it was very rewarding and gave me such a great perspective on people and how they think and make decisions. i try to choose courses... read more about pamela: edx sheds light on justice, history search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close