home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library christmas latest articles recipes travel prevnext ho, ho, ho! jolly christmas pancake ideas leyla preston mon 28th nov 2016 1081shares share tweet pin autumn is the time when we start warming up our ovens to prepare for the busiest period of baking/cooking over christmas. i usually opt for the simplest baking recipes, especially when i host the christmas holiday feasts, as the guests i need to prepare for normally run into the double digits. this year is no different, with at least 13 guests gracing their presence at ours this christmas. easy recipes ensure that i can plan, prepare and cook everything according to a well-thought out schedule, with the added bonus of allowing me to spend more time with my kids, instead of staying in the kitchen all day long. this year, pancake recipes are on the christmas menu. pancakes are not only one of the simplest sweet treats on the planet, but they are also very flexible: they allow you to experiment with as many different ingredients that you can think of and they can easily be turned into a decadent cake too. not only that, the pancake batter can be used to make other sweet treats like muffins and other (christmas) wonders. for inspiration check out the best american pancake recipe collection on mygreatrecipes. here are some classic pancake recipes that have a christmas twist, so they can easily be worked into your christmas schedule this year: table of contents classic christmas pancakes green christmas pancakes red velvet pancakes christmas pancake muffins and parfaits classic christmas pancakes prepare your favourite standard pancake recipe (i like bbc good food’s fluffy american pancakes) and then cut and shape in the form of a snowman or reindeer. my favourite pancake “art” is the santa claus face made with whipped cream for the beard and hair, chocolate chips for the eyes, and halved strawberries for the nose and hat. simple and effective. green christmas pancakes add green food colouring to the batter and cook the pancakes in different sizes, from smallest to largest (use spoons and different sizes of cups to achieve this). then stack them on top of each other to form a christmas tree, cover in sprinkles and add a star cut from an apple on top (stick it on a toothpick to position it easily). red velvet pancakes nothing says “christmas” better than these red velvet pancakes, made by adding red food colouring to the batter, with cream cheese glaze and sprinkles on top. i love using my christmas moulds with this batter because the final product is simply amazing. in this case, use a food-storage plastic bag to draw with the cream cheese over the pancakes. sprinkle with powdered sugar and candy sprinkles. christmas pancake muffins and parfaits place the pancake batter into muffin tins for baking. i love muffins because they allow me to get creative with amazing, yet simple decorations that complement the christmas festive table beautifully. for example, you can create christmas ornaments by decorating the top of the muffins with icing, m&m’s and a rolo candy as toppings. another option is to cover them with chocolate icing and decorate with reindeer “faces”, made with candy eyes and red m&m’s for the noses, and cut pretzels for the antlers. parfaits and trifles are the best and easiest way to “save” your pancake leftovers. in fact, they are so quick and simple you can hand them out to your guests before they leave. simply place them in jars, cover with lids and tie a bow! mix red and white to capture the christmas spirit, of course. pour a layer of plain or vanilla-flavoured greek yogurt, then drizzle with honey and a pinch of cinnamon. the second layer is made with cranberry sauce and the third with cubed pancakes and granola. repeat with a second layer of yogurt, honey and granola. decorate with fresh cranberries and mint leaves. merry christmas! what’s your favourite christmas pancake recipe? share in the comments below! *collaborative featured post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:bakingchristmaspancakesrecipes related posts half term fun at ora’s cookery event october 2014 – degustabox product review... sarson’s healthy twist on traditio... how to make the most of the blackberry s... how you can use matched betting to save ... march 2016 – degustabox product re... monkfish masala with red lentils, pickle... maggi piri piri chicken, served with ric... fish & chips recipe with a twist! side salad recipe baking cocoa, almond and raisin cookies ... how to save money on gifts this christma... 5 super healthy and cold busting smoothi... maggi chicken & leek potato bake superfood christmas tree salad – the big... nursery rhymes finger food creations wit... personalised gifts for the family this c... 5-ingredient sweet and zesty roast chick... whoopi s’mores recipe simple honey & bbq glazed chicken d... maggi oriental soy & garlic chicken... quorn mince vegetarian sausage rolls rec... party sausage rolls – recipe as pa... have you visited the winter wonderland y... call santa directly via bt’s new inlinku... quorn meatballs and ‘getti (spaghetti) r... quorn cookery class at underground cooke... fruity couscous salad – as part of... maggi beef & ale casserole fruity flapjacks about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1081shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok