australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video entertainment 03/27/2020 09:44 edt hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it she got emotional after a segment about quarterback drew brees donating $5 million to feed new orleans' hungry during the coronavirus pandemic. by ron dicker, huffpost us many of us have been there during this crisis. hoda kotb just happened to do it in front of a national television audience on friday. the “today” anchor, a former new orleans resident, began to sob after interviewing saints quarterback drew brees about his $5 million donation to feed the city’s hungry during the coronavirus pandemic. kotb and brees said “love you” to each other before kotb attempted to start a new segment. then emotions overwhelmed her. co-anchor savannah guthrie tried to console her, and kotb said she was sorry. but no apology necessary. we love you, hoda. ❤️ pic.twitter.com/roczr8j4ee — today (@todayshow) march 27, 2020 viewers on twitter applauded her humanity. i think we are all hoda right now. pic.twitter.com/k8fb7ies7m — amee vanderpool (@girlsreallyrule) march 27, 2020 watching @hodakotb show emotion after a piece on her home is the most human thing i’ve seen. we love you hoda! @todayshow — michelle petrovic (@michelle_petrov) march 27, 2020 covid-19 is taking a toll on everyone. @saints quarterback @drewbrees just gave $5 million to new orleans for covid effort. @hodakotb was overwhelmed at end of interview. we are all on the verge and i’m grateful for a real show of emotion right now. ❤️❤️❤️ to hoda. pic.twitter.com/l3mvb0o0ku — jayewatson (@jayewatson) march 27, 2020 may sound weird, but hoda kotb crying on the @todayshow after interviewing drew brees was what i needed this morning. she kept apologizing. she didn’t need to. we’re all in this, and it’s hurting us all. — ed bottomley (@edbottomley) march 27, 2020 sending love your way hoda. don’t be sorry your emotion shows you are human and the love you have for others. thanks for your genuineness and letting the world see your heart. — sharon stratton (@stcstratton) march 27, 2020 moments like this help us all recognize the weight of this crisis. we are in this together. we all carry a bit of the weight. thank you hoda for showing us how. — tim milburn (@timage) march 27, 2020 hoda this hug is just for you! we love you!❤️❤️ pic.twitter.com/j65upvrmhy — stephanie roberson (@stephan3013749) march 27, 2020 @hodakotb you are everything!!! this is so tough and i can’t imagine being in the front of everyone keeping it together. you got this. and @savannahguthrie what a class act. you two are women supporting women personified. — debb (@debbharris05) march 27, 2020 a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic why trump is wrong to compare coronavirus to the flu how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off got anxiety? here are 6 cheap mental health resources. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 12 zoom hacks for work meetings and virtual happy hours how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction ron dicker general assignment reporter, huffpost more: coronavirus new orleans today show hoda kotb drew brees trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.