got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos tv news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... hoda kotb breaks down in tears during today segment about coronavirus’ toll on new orleans home › coronavirus › hoda kotb breaks down in tears during today segment about coronavirus’ toll on new orleans today host hoda kotb is trending worldwide on friday after having a raw, emotional reaction to an interview she did earlier this morning. the longtime tv host was speaking to new orleans saints quarterback drew brees about how the coronavirus pandemic has affected the crescent city. during the segment, brees explained his decision to donate $5 million to help feed louisiana residents in need affected by the pandemic — an amazing gesture by the nfl superstar. related: evangeline lilly finally apologizes for coronavirus comments… hoda, who herself has deep roots in new orleans, finished the interview with brees just fine — but when it came time to transition to the next story, she suddenly couldn’t speak, and her emotions overcame her as she started to break down in tears live on national tv. the daytime talker, clearly overwhelmed by the news of late and saddened to see what the coronavirus has done to her beloved new orleans, apologized to viewers as she took a moment to gather herself. co-host savannah guthrie jumped in and said what pretty much the entire viewing audience was thinking during that moment: “hoda, i know it’s a lot. i’m so sorry, hon. take a moment. it’s a lot. i know where your heart is, my dear, i do.” you can see the entire moment unfold (below): we love you, hoda. ❤️ pic.twitter.com/roczr8j4ee — today (@todayshow) march 27, 2020 wow. the emotional moment didn’t last longer than all of about 30 seconds, but it summed up the way so many people are feeling right now: anxious, emotional, uncertain about the future, and sad about the changes that are coming about because of this pandemic. and did it ever resonate with viewers… one person wrote in response on social media (below): “it’s comforting to see others feeling just how i’m feeling. random tears at random moments. thank you for being real, @hodakotb! i know @savannahguthrie just wanted to give you a hug and so did i!” awww! another added more, noting how we’re all in this together: “moments like this help us all recognize the weight of this crisis. we are in this together. we all carry a bit of the weight. thank you hoda for showing us how.” and a third person shared their love for the popular tv host, too: “we love you, hoda! you are truly an inspiration. thank you for being with us every morning, and helping us get through these difficult times. we are here for you, too!” clearly, the breakdown on air touched a nerve, and we can certainly understand feeling such a way during these difficult times. just imagine what it’s like to report on things like this every day, and the burden that carries… ugh. related: madonna issues warning after co-star dies of coronavirus for what it’s worth, here’s the full interview with kotb and brees discussing the quarterback’s donation: lost in the viral story about kotb’s reaction here is brees’ wonderful decision to come forward and make a difference, too — love that!! what do u think about all this, perezcious readers? do you relate to hoda’s show of emotion? hearts are heavy right now worldwide, and it appears we’re quite far from seeing the end of this whole pandemic. [image via today showyoutube] related posts nicole richie talks at-home schooling during coronavirus: ‘i spent 10 years preaching no screens’ priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their marriage work! amazon delivery driver caught on camera spitting on package! kylie jenner recalls ‘bleeding from the mouth’ during 2019 hospitalization: ‘sickest i’ve ever been’ click click click next article next article mar 27, 2020 7:45am pdt share this categories charity coronavirus daytime tv news sad sad scary! social issues tv news viral: news view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy