instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "holidays" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: holidays rebecca 5 min read november 24, 2017 no reply holiday gift guide for kids: babies to school aged parenting fun gifts they’ll love here it is! this year’s gift guide for kids. these are items that we have in our home and love, that may show up under our tree, or that i think would be fun for kids other kids of varying ages. each year, i include hand-picked items that i’ve seen over the past few months (or have owned for some time) and want to share with you! this guide isn’t sponsored (although a few advertisers appear because i shop there too) and doesn’t include the current trends. i suspect most of us know to look for shopkins, pokemon or minecraft gifts already. i tried to find gifts that you might not usually think of or see yourself! also, i always think that craft kits and puzzles make for excellent gifts, when in doubt. i didn’t include too many specific ones this year, but keep that in mind. i highly encourage you to browse the other gift guides from previous years because looking back, we are still using so many of those gifts. you can find all of them here. see something from a previous guide and want to know how it’s held up if we own it? send me a message! the 2017 bit of momsense gif guide for kids is here! your shopping just got easier via @bitofmomsense click to tweet here it is, your shopping guide for some fun, unique and special gifts this holiday season for the kiddos in your life. 2017 gift guide for kids monopoly empire every year, we get a family board game under our christmas tree. last year, santa brought monopoly empire and we didn’t realize how much we would all love it. the premise is that you are a company that is trying to out buy the other brands and get richer. it’s cutthroat at times, and strategic, and a lot of fun. highly recommend! buy it: toys r us (often on sale!) a camera originally, i thought about getting the fuji camera that goes underwater, has wifi etc. but in the end, i decided this year to try out the v-tech video/camera for kids (shhhh it’s a secret). it will be a good introduction for my two to play around with it, and for me to see how serious they are about using it. as they get older a ‘real’ digital camera can be on the list, but for now, i’m excited to see the vacation photos and action photos they take with this one. buy it: chapters skip hop owl push toy my mom bought this for my niece who just turned one and as soon as i saw it in action i said ‘this is going on my gift guide!’. it’s basically a little push toy like the old poppers, but it’s an owl and the wings move as it goes. and i don’t find it as loud. it’s beyond cute. buy it: chapters make your own nail polish i love finding gifts for older kids as well as younger ones, and i love that this suncoat set is the right combination of fun, youthful craft time and creative pre-teen time. the set comes with clear polish and different colours that you can mix and match to create your own. naming them will be fun too! buy it: terra20, tag along toys flower press years ago, my daughter was given a flower press as a gift. she still uses it now. i love hands-on activities like this, and the introduction to preserving flowers is a wonderful activity to do. buy it: tag along toys, amazon.ca over the door basketball net every year it seems, there’s something active under our tree. we’ve had hockey nets, sticks, basketballs, tennis balls, and more. i love the idea of having an over the door basketball net. with space being limited in many homes, this is a fun way for kids to spend some quiet time, or for the family to play together. i love the price points on these too. buy it: star wars themed net – canadian tire (other nba ones or plain ones are available at various locations) magic kit my son got a couple magic and illusionist style kits years ago and is still using them. card tricks in particular have been really popular. this will keep the kids busy! buy it: tag along toys in-store, chapters weird but true books perhaps one of the most popular books that are in our house right now are the national geographic weird but true series. these books are pages and pages of fact snippets that will make you say, wait for it, “weird! but true!” most of the books are small in size which make them perfect travel companions. we even take them to restaurants to do quizzing/guessing games! both my kids have been hugely interested in these books. buy it: chapters, scholastic fisher price cash register this reminds me of my childhood. that’s it, it’s pure nostalgia, but i suspect little ones will still have fun putting the coins in and watching them roll down. buy it: chapters, toys r us that is my list for this year and i hope you found it helpful! have questions or want to know more about certain products that appear on my list? ask below! rebecca 1 min read december 19, 2016 no reply festive traditions home there are about 80 traditions that we have this time of year in my family (or so it seems) and most of them are around because we truly love them. our christmas countdown advent calendar. our family visits. all the baking i do. seeing the local lights. #25daysofchristmas activity for day 15: go to taffy lane! those of you in #ottawa know about this street. so bright and fun! we picked popcorn and went after the school concert #taffylane a photo posted by rebecca s (@bitofmomsense) on dec 15, 2016 at 6:27pm pst andy and i even have a gift wrapping tradition. bubbly and christmas vacation. this is how andy and i wrap gifts 🎁 🍾 a photo posted by rebecca s (@bitofmomsense) on dec 17, 2016 at 5:33pm pst it’s a busy time of year, and it likely seems ridiculous to fill it with more requirements, but i don’t seem most of these traditions as a burden, they are a fun way to really enjoy the season and almost all of them are about spending time together. when work is super busy, when school is busy, these are the moments that we can treasure. (except christmas cards. they cause me stress every year!) i recently wrote an article on ottawa family living about family traditions and how i may hold them a little too tightly at times, ways that we can introduce or review our traditions each year, and why they are so special to me. hop over to read it on their site. what are some of your favourite holiday traditions? which ones would you like to ditch? comment below! rebecca 0 min read december 3, 2016 no reply holiday hot chocolate bar drink, food and drink do you know what’s delicious? hot chocolate. do you know what’s delicious and fun? a hot chocolate bar! it’s easy! make your hot chocolate and have it ready in cups. pre-prepare all the topping options in bowls. a few ideas? -marshmallows -whip cream -chocolate chips -sprinkles then, let the kids create! maybe they want to add a teaspoon of peanut butter? or maybe they need some candy cane bits for a peppermint flavour? the creativity is endless! have fun and enjoy! rebecca 4 min read november 26, 2016 2 replies food gifts to give for christmas food, parenting there is no secret that i love food. and getting food as a gift is something many of us love. i mean, chocolate is always a great idea, right? this holiday season, if you are looking for an edible gift to give someone you love, here’s a list of a few items i would love to see under the tree. instead of filling our homes with more stuff, i love the idea of giving something that can be consumed, shared and enjoyed by many. take a bite out of your holiday shopping list with these food gift giving ideas! cardamom and cloves based in ottawa, this is a subscription service that will mail the lucky gift recipient a selection of three spices each month that can be used in your their own kitchen creations or to experiment with the recipes provided. for $9 or less a month, this is a spectacular gift. top shelf preserves i bought a selection of top shelf preserves for my hard-to-buy for dad last year and they were a hit. i love the variety of pickled options (i will eat anything if it’s pickled i think!) and their chutneys will be a welcome addition to any holiday spread. prince edward island preserve company every year when we are on the island we eat here and shop at the preserve company. it’s amazing and delicious. their jams are heavenly, the lemon curd almost sinful and the tea is a staple in this house. purdys chocolate i want the salted caramel chocolates, let’s just put that out there. i got a couple boxes last year and i can never have too much. there is a huge selection online and a flat rate for shipping. you can get a lot of shopping done with just a few clicks. but i recommend wrapping everything right away so you don’t tempt yourself! wine club subscriptions i’m counting wine as food. we are currently in a wine club with ravine winery and it’s amazing. it’s absolutely an indulgence for us but each month, two bottles of amazing wine shows up to our door along with an item from their pantry. every so often their smoky almonds are in the box and we have to fight over who eats the last one. there are two subscriptions with ravine (one has limited membership) but both offer discounts at the winery and delivery of wine to your door. another local niagara winery to check out for their club is chateau des charmes. their adventurer level wine club delivers two bottles of wine each month as well, one from the lcbo and one that you can only get at the winery. we love the grounds at chateau des charmes and this is a great way to introduce the wine lover on your list to more delicious ontario wine. chocolat favoris fondues since writing about chocolat favoris this summer, our love for it has not waned. i recently bought the advent calendar to enjoy! they have a lot of gift giving options online or in the store, but gifting their fondues would be a fun, unique gift. they have some packaged up in festive boxes, or paired with their chocolates in gift baskets to make your gift giving even easier! festive coffee i will never turn away coffee as a gift, especially this time of year when we are entertaining so often. i love the festive winter harvest blend from ten thousand villages each year. it’s available ground or as beans. no matter what gifts you decide to get, it’s always the thought that counts (as long as you don’t think about eating the gift ahead of time, you’ll be fine! 😉 rebecca 5 min read november 23, 2015 2 replies holiday gift guide: great gifts for kids 2015 parenting, shopping it’s time for my holiday gift guide! what items will be under my tree, have been under the tree and we love, that just look really fun etc. i try to find items that aren’t maybe as common as you’d find by browsing through the flyers that are delivered to your door. and yes, shopkins are making an appearance in our house but i didn’t add them to the list. also not on the list but is always found under the tree are books! hopefully this will help you find a few new, fun, useful items for your kids or the kids in your life! click here for last year’s list (because many of those items are still being played with around here) and the lists of previous years. you’ll notice my list tends to grow with my kids, but i try to include a variety of ages! need help finding something? let me know on facebook. i’m happy to help give more ideas! here we go! 2015 holiday gift guide 1- waldorf curvy board from a local craftsman, this curvy board would have been perfect for my kids when they were younger. i love toys that have open-ended play. is it a bridge? a ramp? a surfboard? the kids can decide! image: tom of all trades where to find it: tom of all trades, facebook 2- goldieblox image: toys r us i love this toy. mostly, because since receiving it, i’ve seen my daughter tinker and create and it’s wonderful to see. this year, she’s receiving the big pack of items where she can make her own creations, but if you aren’t sure where to start, grab the zipline. it’s been so much fun. where to find it: tag along toys, chapters, toys r us 3- minecraft stop motion image: chapters combining my son’s love of minecraft, with his love of stop motion (using an app on the phone or ipad), my mom found this minecraft stop motion kit. i have no doubt some mini-movies will be made! where to find it: chapters 4- star wars perplexus image: chapters for harder to buy for kids, and older kids, how cool is the new star wars death star perplexus? challenge your kiddo with this very cool maze. plus star wars! where to find it: various toy retails that carry perplexus, chapters. 5- craft supplies i feel it’s impossible to narrow this down, but craft supplies and kits are some of my favourite gifts to give and for the kids to get. i love encouraging their creative side, but also non-toy gifts are always appreciated. plus, we never have enough crafts for craft time! not sure where to start? last year i bought this kit for the kids and it’s been such a fantastic find. it’s filled with everything we need to get creative, with instructions to follow, or we can just create anything we want! image: toys r us where to find it: toys r us 6- scratch book image: mrs. tiggy winkles my daughter received this for a gift last year and it was very popular. it’s a really neat way to be creative! where to find them: various locations, mrs. tiggy winkles 7- charades image: tag along toys every year, santa brings a family game to play. last year was charades and i really recommend it. this pack has cards for everyone in the family, including picture-only cards for the non-readers, and kid-friendly actions for the younger crowd. there are plenty of cards to challenge adults as well, making it a game all of us can play. where to find it: tag along toys 8- super mario maker image: eb games okay, i don’t usually add video games to these lists, but come on. you know my obsession with mario games right? super mario maker is so much fun, i think because we can create our own levels which means i create something cool for the kids to try, and they then try to create a level to stump me, which hasn’t happened yet. ha! if you aren’t sure about this game, it’s a huge thumbs up in this house. where to find it: most game retailers should have it in stock. eb games have fun! rebecca 2 min read december 9, 2014 18 replies recipe: skor toffee bars – delicious recipes this is the recipe that my family insists i make each year. it’s impossible to say no, because they are a favourite of mine too. they combine my love of chocolate with the sweet crunch of toffee and a cookie crust. yes, they are as decadent as they sound. i originally found the recipe on a website years and years ago. they make a large 9×13 pan, which sounds like they should last a while, but honestly, you may be making these more than once. do you have recipe cards that look like this? chocolate toffee skor bars ingredients: (crust) 3/4 cup butter 3/4 cup brown sugar, packed 1 1/2 cups flour (middle/topping) 1 can sweetened condensed milk 2 tbsp butter 1 package milk chocolate chips 1 package skor bits directions: mix together butter, sugar and flour. this will make a cookie crumble mixture. press firmly into buttered (or parchment lined) 9×13 pan. the parchment will make it easier to remove from the pan and to cut. bake at 350 degrees f for 20-25 minutes. meanwhile, warm the condensed milk and butter in a sauce pan until blended. when the crust comes out of the oven, use a paper towel and tea towel and gently press the crust down (don’t burn yourself!). this extra firmness while it cools will make it less likely to fall apart later. pour the condensed milk/butter evenly over cookie base after it comes out of the oven. bake for about 12 – 15 minutes longer. sprinkle the chocolate chips over the fresh-from-the-oven pan. bake for 2-3 minutes. evenly spread the chocolate over the top. add skor bits on top. gently press so they stick to the chocolate. let cool fully before serving. enjoy! and yes, they freeze well! other holiday recipes to try: the best ginger molasses cookies melt in your mouth shortbread homemade peanut butter cups unbaked cookies (mud pies) 50% off our favourite coffee brands (ends oct 13) facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.