home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » gift ideas » holiday gift idea: hot cocoa on a stick holiday gift idea: hot cocoa on a stick november 11, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments 56shares facebook twitter pinterest every year i try to come up with a simple and inexpensive gift idea for teachers and service providers in my life. but, i don’t want the gifts to look cheap. this year i put together these simple hot cocoa on a stick gift mugs. they look festive and provide a nice warm treat for anyone on your “i really should get them a little something” list. read on to learn how to make these simple gift mugs. holiday gift idea: hot cocoa on a stick there are a variety of hot cocoa on a stick recipes. but, the recipe i used for the hot cocoa on a stick can be found on the king arthur flour website. the mug and coaster gift idea can be put together quickly and efficiently to make several for a last minute gift idea. materials: mug (bought at the dollar tree) wood slice coaster (follow this diy tutorial) pine bough washi tape hot cocoa on a stick printed directions for making the hot cocoa: “place in a heatproof mug and add 1 cup hot milk. stir gently to melt the chocolate.” instructions: are you ready for the quickest and easiest tutorial on the pretty handy girl website? set that stopwatch, because once you have all the materials this holiday gift idea aka hot cocoa on a stick is going to solve your small gift giving dilemma. ready. set. go! put the pine bough, hot cocoa on a stick, printed directions, and (if you’re feeling extra generous) add a gift card. insert all items neatly into the mug. center your mug on the wood slice coaster. use washi tape to secure the mug to the wood slice coaster. (overlap at least an inch or two of washi tape inside the mug rim. use one continuous piece of washi tape going from one side of the mug, under the coaster, and back up the opposite side of the mug.) use caution when handling the mugs as the washi tape can rip if jostled too much. add a gift tag if you like. or set them on a tray to deliver in person or put them out as holiday party favors. what do you think? easiest holiday gift idea every? i’d love to hear if you have ideas or variations on this holiday gift idea. in the meantime, i’ll be sipping on a fresh mug of hot cocoa on a stick! yum! p.s. looking for more last minute diy gift ideas? i have an entire pinterest board full of diy gift ideas here. 56shares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: gift ideas, recipe comments downraspberrylane says november 12, 2019 at 11:11 am wonderful idea, i have people who would love to receive one of these.! one thing i would add to the directions is just a reminder that, if using these mugs with metallic paint, to not put them in the microwave. some metallic paints will “arc” in the microwave, causing damage to the appliance. might sound obvious, but i forgot once and ruined my microwave oven, so a reminder never hurts! reply barbara warner says november 12, 2019 at 11:31 pm i love this idea! what a cute hostess gift or one for friends – a mug full of cocoa on a stick! thanks so much for sharing this idea and recipe. reply leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok