home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » home tour tour of the 2020 hgtv dream home in hilton head – part 2 january 31, 2020 brittany bailey 1 comment welcome back to part 2 of the 2020 hgtv dream home tour. i hope you enjoyed seeing the kitchen, living room, foyer, and master suite on monday. today i have photos of the mudroom/laundry room, the upstairs bedrooms, lounge room, and the backyard. bryan patrick flynn is the … [read more...] home tour tour of the 2020 hgtv dream home in hilton head – part 1 january 27, 2020 brittany bailey leave a comment are you a big fan of the hgtv annual dream homes? my hand is raised with you! the houses are always built in a dreamy vacation location. but, the insides of the homes are often dreamier to me. last week i had the good fortune of being invited to tour the 2020 hgtv dream home in … [read more...] home tour screen porch makeover with invisible mosquito screens august 2, 2019 brittany bailey 19 comments i'm incredibly excited about our screen porch makeover with invisible mosquito screens. but, i also can't wait to share with you the almost invisible insect window screen material i found to replace our old screen porch screens. it's honestly a night and day difference! read on … [read more...] home tour, video saving etta: paint colors + home tour guide june 28, 2019 brittany bailey leave a comment saving etta: paint colors + home tour guide now that all the rooms have been revealed in the saving etta house, i thought you'd like one post to refer to all the paint colors used inside and outside the home. this will also be a great starting place to navigate all the saving … [read more...] home tour, painting, saving etta saving etta: living room reveal june 7, 2019 brittany bailey 8 comments saving etta: living room reveal i know it's been a while since you received a saving etta update. and, there's a good reason for the delay. not only did i renovate two bathrooms for our local habitat for humanity this past week, but i also bought a house! after six months of … [read more...] home tour, living room, saving etta diy chalkboard wall calendar august 1, 2018 brittany bailey 7 comments create this diy chalkboard calendar to get you and your family organized. it will only take you about half an hour to create but it will save you the headache of double booking yourself and get the kids on board with upcoming activities and trips. diy chalkboard wall … [read more...] chalk marker, chalkboard paint, home tour, organizational tips, painting & antiquing techniques holiday home tour 2017 december 20, 2017 brittany bailey 23 comments happy holidays! i can't believe the holidays are here once again. this will be my seventh holiday home tour shared with you. i honestly can not believe i've been running this little old blog of mine since 2010. (these are my holiday home tours … [read more...] decorating, holiday decorating, home tour fabulous fall home tours september 29, 2017 brittany bailey 16 comments fabulous fall home tours welcome to the fabulous fall home tours! the tour features 8 fabulously talented bloggers who have opened their homes up so you can get inspired by some beautiful fall decorating. if you are just coming in from sarah's house, it's nice to see you. wasn't … [read more...] decorating, home tour fall tablescape and coffee bar september 28, 2017 brittany bailey 7 comments fall tablescape and coffee bar welcome! i'm so glad you could join me today. i enjoyed taking a little time off from my investment house projects to decorate the house for autumn. it's always fun to twitter around and create a beautiful tablescape. last year's tablescape had … [read more...] decorating, home tour pantry progress update may 22, 2017 brittany bailey 9 comments i'm really anxious to show you a sneak peek of the pantry renovation project. i'm not 100% done, but the finish line is close. this is a good spot to give you a pantry progress update and show you the process of turning a bi-fold door pantry into something with more functional … [read more...] build it, home tour, organizational tips holiday home tour 2016 december 9, 2016 brittany bailey 11 comments i'm so happy to see you again this year! this is my annual holiday home tour and each year i can't wait to invite you in to see the decorations. (these are my home tours from 2010, 2011, 2013, 2014, 2015.) this year i tried to keep it simple, but i did take two days to make a … [read more...] christmas card display, decor, decorating, holiday decorating, home decor, home tour paint colors in my home january 18, 2016 brittany bailey 21 comments i owe you an apology. this post has been on my "to do" list for at least two years. but like many of my "to do" list items, it got pushed back many times. i get many questions about the paint colors i use in my home. each color has been chosen to evoke an emotion in the … [read more...] home tour, painting, painting & antiquing techniques, past projects, popular holiday home tour – mudroom and foyer december 21, 2015 brittany bailey 4 comments last up on my holiday home tour is my mudroom and foyer. this year, i re-used the same wreaths for the front door, but i jazzed them up with silver holly leaf floral picks. it's incredibly easy to change the look of your wreaths. try tucking in fresh clippings like … [read more...] decor, holiday decorating, home decor, home tour, mudroom holiday home tour – kitchen december 16, 2015 brittany bailey 16 comments one of my favorite rooms to decorate is our kitchen. there is something about the combination of aqua with green that makes me happy. welcome to the next room on my holiday home tour, the kitchen! updating the window seat with aqua and snowflake pillows is the first thing … [read more...] built-in window seat, christmas card display, decor, decorating, holiday decorating, home decor, home tour, kitchen, kitchen renovation holiday home tour – dining room december 14, 2015 brittany bailey 6 comments welcome back for another holiday room tour! today i'd love to have you join us in the dining room. can i tell you a secret? i don't usually make a big christmas meal. instead, i like to make a huge batch of pancakes and bacon or sausage. i'm definitely a breakfast for lunch or … [read more...] decorating, dining room, holiday decorating, home decor, home tour, tablescape holiday home tour – the living room december 11, 2015 brittany bailey 7 comments it's the most wonderful time of year when i can invite you into my home. the house is picked up (for the moment) and i've hung the stockings with care. but, most of all, i enjoy having you over for a cup of hot cocoa and good conversation. if you are just coming over from … [read more...] decorating, holiday decorating, home decor, home tour 1 2 3 … 6 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok