× farnoosh play so money on so money now × you're listening to... ?light=true about books podcast blog work with me contact get your free book america’s leading personal finance expert, hooked on helping you live your richest, most fulfilling life. get private access now let's connect.. partnerships & brand collaborations book to brand & workshops speaking & hosting television & media i work with the best. you might like.... smart tips for starting a business from the co-founder of a cupcake empire in the january 2018 issue of o, the oprah magazine i ask baked by melissa cofounder melissa ben-ishay how she started her cupcake empire—and how you can cook up a business plan of your own. continue reading all articles mint money audit: managing money when you make enough anna’s email requesting help with her finances began with a unique confession: farnoosh, my money problem garners little sympathy,” the 32-year-old wrote. “my issue is that i make too much of it. now, this is interesting, i thought. i immediately followed up with many questions. continue reading all articles that’s so annoying i recently sat down with today’s kathie lee gifford and hoda kotb to share tips on how to deal with life’s little annoyances. continue reading all articles join thousands of ambitious people like you. take part in farnoosh’s thriving personal finance community and receive her ebook, so money secrets, for free. thanks for joining! i need to confirm your email address, so please click the link in the email i just sent you. from there, you’ll receive so money secrets, my free insider guide to financial wellness. close terms & conditions privacy policy site made in collaboration with cmyk × join thousands of ambitious people like you. take part in farnoosh’s thriving personal finance community and receive her ebook, so money secrets, for free. thanks for joining! i need to confirm your email address, so please click the link in the email i just sent you. from there, you’ll receive so money secrets, my free insider guide to financial wellness. close