skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home building how much equity is in your home? ittigallery/shutterstock understanding home equity when you take the current market value of your home that you receive after an appraisal and subtract it from the amount you currently owe on your mortgage, that’s your … by the freshome.com team on march 22, 2020 in home building what is home equity and how does it work? ittigallery/shutterstock what is equity? you’ll often hear the term equity when it comes to homeownership, but you may not even… by the freshome.com team on march 19, 2020 in home building 6 reasons to build or buy in up-and-coming areas when searching for a new home, buyers often look for houses or land in the best neighborhoods — or, at least, the best neighborhoods that they can afford. and that’s certainly understandable. however, homeowners may be missing out on several advantages by not considering less prestigious or less des… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in home building relocating? watch for these neighborhood red flags in a perfect world, every neighborhood would resemble mayberry. everyone would know each other by name and your next-door neighbor’s yard would always look as manicured as your own. unfortunately, there’s no such thing as a perfect neighborhood and every zip code has its own pros and con… by jae curtis on march 4, 2020 in home building pocket neighborhoods: why small developments are the next big thing it was writer howard e. koch who mused, “you can be a good neighbor only if you have good neighbors.” of course, you don’t get to choose the people who live around you. still, a new type of development can help limit the chances of living next to a dud. by jae curtis on march 4, 2020 in home building open layout? why broken plans are your best bet if you asked architects about the biggest change to design trends over the last decade, chances are they’d tell you “open floorplans.” while architecture used to lean towards “the more the merrier” when it came to the number of rooms, today’s families live differently. instead of lots of small space… by jae curtis on march 11, 2020 in home building breaking ground: 6 things to do before you dig your foundation your plans are complete and you’ve purchased your lot. you’re probably chomping at the bit to get construction underway on your new home. after all, breaking ground is the first step to the process and your excitement is understandable. but before you grab your trusty shovel (or schedule… by jae curtis on march 4, 2020 in home building 8 new construction money mistakes that could cost you building your own home is an exercise in careful budgeting. each and every dollar needs to be accounted for, or your build could get away from you. still, even if you’re careful with your budget, you might be making mistakes that cost you in the end. maxing out your money… by jae curtis on march 4, 2020 in home building 10 things i wish i’d known before building a house freshome has partnered with creditcards.com to find the best credit cards to fund home improvement. freshome and creditcards.com may receive a commission from card issuers. what started as a lazy saturday afternoon looking at model homes soon turned into a full-scale homebuilding project. that’… by jae curtis on march 11, 2020 in home building 7 ways to stick to your new build budget making the decision to build instead of buying a home is the easy part. after that, the real work starts. working with your builder to choose plans, finishes and overall budget can test your limits, but it’ll ultimately get you exactly what you want. of course, what makes sense on… by jae curtis on march 4, 2020 in home building 1 2 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss