your evernote api key has been generated your evernote api key api access details for your records: consumer key: ::consumer key goes here:: consumer secret: ::consumer secret goes here:: note: this info will also be emailed to you shortly your evernote api key is now active on our development server, sandbox.evernote.com, for testing and building your application. remember that you key is not active on the 'live' evernote service evernote.com for general use. once your project is ready for public use, you'll need to have your key activated for production use. tip: from beginner to advanced, explore our getting started guides » close error: your evernote api key could not be activated there was an error generating your evernote api key. please try your request again. if that doesn't work, get in touch with developer support. close request an evernote api key. evernote username developer name developer email organization app name describe app note: review the api permissions documentation » api permissions select the access level that your app will need: basic access full access this integration will sync all user data. (?) subscribe to evernote developer updates via email i agree to the terms of the evernote api license agreement. cancel docs evernote api quick start guides topics api reference glossary the app center submit your app app best practices resources community hackathons & events why evernote? talks & videos developer support connect tech blog evernote on stack overflow evernote on github developer forum developer tools activate an api key get an api key evernote.com make apps memorable join the community of developers building with evernote get started with the api » documentation technical chapters covering the api and how to use the platform read the docs why evernote? a robust and highly available service to store and remember everything. learn more dev support community forums & resources for building apps with the evernote api. get help latest updates the evernote app center build the next generation of apps for the evernote app center. learn more » we're hiring join our team as we build the future of the evernote platform. our team is growing and we need great talent! view all openings stay on top of what's happening in the evernote developer community. products pricing support blog about careers legal terms privacy security contact