donate menu news blog events shop media centre donate search close menu about us keyboard_arrow_down find out what we stand for and how our work around the uk is making a difference. about us who we are our people directors board of trustees contact us what we do projects research paths for everyone in scotland in wales in northern ireland campaigns national cycle network keyboard_arrow_down explore explore fantastic walking and cycling routes across the uk national cycle network information find a route about the network our future vision inspiration route collections great walks on the network traffic-free family rides get active for professionals keyboard_arrow_down for professionals work in partnership with us to tackle the challenges of congestion, air pollution, physical inactivity, and social inequality, by making it easier for people to walk and cycle. for professionals policy area policy policy positions policy scan policy consultation submissions bike life sector experience cycling infrastructure urban design and planning education workplaces research, monitoring and evaluation our work our approach projects research in northern ireland in scotland in wales get involved keyboard_arrow_down get involved help us to continue to care for the national cycle network and support our work to improve walking and cycling for everyone. get involved give money donate leave a gift in your will donate in memory corporate giving give your time volunteer work at sustrans login to volunteernet fundraise fundraising and challenge events donate news blog events shop media centre donate cancel close menu search input search donate we're the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle please support our work your donation enables us to continue caring for the national cycle network and working hard to improve walking and cycling for everyone. £ donate now sustrans and covid-19 it is our top priority to support staff, volunteers, supporters, partners and the communities we work with during the current coronavirus outbreak. we're following nhs and government guidance and have made some arrangements to protect people and help reduce the spread of covid-19. and one of these changes is that we have regrettably decided to cancel big pedal 2020 see what else we're doing to support people during this time donate today and help us remove and redesign barriers your support for our raise the bar fundraising appeal will help us create a more accessible national cycle network. you'll help us remove and redesign nearly 800 barriers on our own land. donate to the raise the bar appeal now in the last year, we've achieved some amazing things 203 miles of walking and cycling routes delivered in partnership 3.8 million journeys to school by foot or by wheel recorded in the 2019 big pedal explore the national cycle network as custodians of the national cycle network, we couldn't be happier to see the signed routes and paths across the uk used by millions of people every year. but we don't want to stop there. we want to keep making the network better, getting more people using it and creating paths for everyone. discover the national cycle network bike life bike life gives leaders of cities and towns the confidence, opportunity and evidence to talk about the benefits of cycling. it helps them make cycling an everyday way to travel. download the latest reports for 14 uk cities and urban areas news news our response to the uk government’s decarbonising transport report news bike life dundee - 4 out of 5 people in dundee want protected cycle lanes news 80% of inverness residents surveyed identified their desire for more protected cycle lanes news an open letter to make walking and cycling easier amid covid-19 opinion opinion the uk’s largest assessment of urban cycling by tim burns opinion cities that are designed for women are designed for everyone by daisy narayanan opinion how walking and cycling can help to increase healthy life expectancy by andy cope opinion transport investment: poor decisions are taking us in the wrong direction by andy cope donate your support is what keeps us moving volunteer do your bit and make new friends careers campaigns events media centre news blog shop privacy and terms contact us newsletter sign up now to hear more about our latest news, views, events, campaigns, policy, impact and other activities. follow us on social our fundraising sustrans is committed to fundraising in a way which is legal, open, honest and respectful. read our fundraising promise. sustrans is a registered charity in england and wales (number 326550) and scotland (sc039263) and a company limited by guarantee registered in england no 1797726 at 2 cathedral square, bristol, bs1 5dd.