sign in sign up sign out home mastermind events tools more share videos blog join the community want to be part of something exciting? join our mastermind community now. sign up! already a member? log in here. let us help you grow an amazing business we'll show you how to put the pieces in place to operate your small business successfully. you'll find free training, events, interactive tools, a mastermind community and much more. we cover sales, marketing, operations, finance and staffing - and we make it fun. join us! what you get from this community mastermind group this is a free group helping small business owners and entrepreneurs to learn from each other. no time commitments required. join in when you have a few moments. bring questions you can't get answered anywhere else. online events need to learn how to do something? or simply want informal coaching? perhaps you'd like to connect with peers and ask questions live. our events are tailor-made to connect you to the best and brightest no matter what the expertise. self-guided courses taking courses online is a great way to learn. ours are fun, fast and geared toward small business challenges and opportunities. you learn just what you need. since they're self-guided, you can take them when you have time, at your own pace. monthly challenges each month you'll be presented with a new challenge you can master and then apply to your business. learn how to set and track key performance indicators, how to interview and hire, how to drive profitability and more. our structure makes it easy to stay on track. free resources on the main bizsugar site goal setting setting goals for your business is crucial. after all, if you don't know where you're going, how will you know when you've arrived? but goal setting doesn't have to be hard or boring. our goal templates make it a breeze. use our free goal setting templates for your business. scorecards ever wonder how well you're doing? our templates, calculators and self-assessment scorecards make assessing your progress fun and interactive. see how much progress you've made, and where you stand to learn more. benchmarks need data to see how your business stacks up? how much do others spend on certain expenses? how much growth is realistic to expect? our community surveys yield valuable data to help you evaluate how well your business is doing compared to your peers. transparency we pledge to be open and transparent about everything we do -- from our traffic stats, to our growth, to our failures. this community is itself a business, and we want you to learn from our successes and mistakes. check out our stats and reports. awesome content tired of the same old shallow content of dubious value? we've been creating and curating content for 15 years. get content we develop and share your own quality content. good content is always welcome on our sharing site! attend the ama with zoho ceo sridhar vembu on facebook live you are cordially invited to attend a facebook live event this coming thursday, april 11, 2019 at 10 a.m. et. what would you like to know about the future of small business apps? are you interested in the latest news from zoho? ask your questions on the small business trends facebook page at [read more…] how to set up a lead magnet to collect leads on your website you’ve heard marketers talk about lead magnets. they sound valuable — like something you should be using. it took me a long time to figure out how to answer the question: how do you set up a lead magnet? don’t get me wrong — it’s not tremendously hard. rather, it’s just that no one [read more…] ama with eric goldschein on small business financing and loans eric goldschein, staff writer at fundera, answered all of our members’ questions during his ama. eric is an expert on small business financing and lending – and so much more (read on)! even though you’ve missed the live event, you can see all of his answers in our mastermind community. see the great advice he shared [read more…] what is upselling? and how can it benefit your business? upselling is when you offer an additional product, service, or feature to a customer who has already decided to purchase from you. upselling benefits your business because it can increase the size — and profitability — of each sale. what is upselling — in context? the idea behind upselling is that the customer has signaled intent to [read more…] why i founded this community as a business owner myself, my mission is to help other small business owners and entrepreneurs like you succeed by sharing collective experience and knowledge. i believe that with the right tools and decisions, any business can reap the benefits for years to come. success doesn't happen overnight. but it doesn't have to take forever, either. join me on this journey. i'll be your guide. tell us your experiences and lessons learned. share your hopes and dreams, and your fears and concerns. together we'll support each other. my goal is to make this community the best place to get the answers you need to operate your business. read more. anita campbell ceo of bizsugar what it takes to run a mastermind having started a mastermind group using skype years ago, i have a pretty good idea of what draws people. an inviting environment. the best minds. people willing to share. i think you'll like it here. gail gardner mastermind chief moderator join the community want to be part of something exciting? join our mastermind community now. sign up! already a member? log in here. this site was built with the zoho sites drag-and-drop website builder. features in this site use the zoho one suite of software, including zoho survey, connect, forms, pagesense, social, salesiq, creator and more. © 2007-2019 bizsugar.com resources mastermind group articles tools & scorecards videos about us our story advisory board contact us privacy terms of service blog topics sales marketing operations staffing