home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources business development / customer success / featured #122: vaibhav sahgal – head of growth at reddit – how to be a growth product leader read more engineering / featured #121: kesha lake – how a mom from atlanta became a remote software engineer at stitch fix read more featured / founders #120: jerrick warren – how career karma’s first member became a software engineer at gemini read more featured / founders #118: darrell silver – ceo of thinkful read more read more business development / customer success / featured #122: vaibhav sahgal – head of growth at reddit – how to be a growth product leader by julio rodriguez on march 5, 2020 vaibhav sahgal is the head of growth at reddit, inc. which has 500 million unique users around the world. prior to this, he worked at zynga for 8 years as a product manager. he led… read more engineering / featured #121: kesha lake – how a mom from atlanta became a remote software engineer at stitch fix by julio rodriguez on january 6, 2020 born and raised in los angeles, kesha lake is a member of the career karma community from atlanta. she joined career karma in the beginning of 2019. less than a year later, she got a… read more featured / founders #120: jerrick warren – how career karma’s first member became a software engineer at gemini by julio rodriguez on december 6, 2019 jerrick warren has an inspiring story of breaking into the blockchain tech startup gemini coming from a background in medicine. he went from joining the career karma community, to getting accepted into lambda school to… read more featured / founders #118: darrell silver – ceo of thinkful by julio rodriguez on september 30, 2019 darrell silver is the ceo and co-founder of thinkful. their mission? to build the world’s next workforce. since its inception in 2012, thinkful has graduated thousands of students. founded based on two elements – transparency… read more featured / founders #117: chok ooi – ceo of kenzie academy by julio rodriguez on september 24, 2019 coming to the states with two suitcases and a pocketful of dreams, chock ooi is currently the ceo of kenzie academy. chok is a startup veteran working at places like loopt and agilityio, and is… read more community organizer / featured #116: fftsquad – a career karma squad of highly motivated people breaking into tech together by julio rodriguez on july 15, 2019 today, we have a special group of people joining us who go by the #fftsquad. #fftsquad is a group of people on career karma who are working together to help each other grow, learn how… read more featured / founders #115: angela ceresnie – ceo of climb credit on helping to finance people’s career transitions by julio rodriguez on july 1, 2019 angela ceresnie is the ceo of climb credit. she has experience working in and starting multiple startups. she has led teams at citibank and american express. interestingly, she studied computer engineering at the university of… read more featured / founders #114: phaedra ellis – ceo of promise on how to build power and take control of your career by julio rodriguez on may 27, 2019 phaedra ellis is the ceo of promise, a startup that uses technology for good in the process to change the criminal justice system. prior to this, she was the leader of the south bay labor… read more featured #113: tonio desorrento – income sharing agreements explained by ceo of vemo by julio rodriguez on april 17, 2019 tonio desorrento is a new york-native who spent time in the marines as a captain. he has also worked at several institutions including sofi. currently, he serves as the ceo of vemo education, a leading… 1 2 3 … 14 featured featured / sales richard purcell – sales director who worked his way up from an entry level role by timur meyster featured / founders #108: dan sommer, ceo and founder of trilogy education, workforce accelerator for leading universities and companies by timur meyster featured / founders / growth #47: wayne neale – founder of growthx academy by timur meyster featured / founders #76: gary vaynerchuk – ceo of vaynermedia by timur meyster featured / founders / venture capital #92: marlon nichols – deep dive on venture capital with the co-founder of cross culture vc by timur meyster engineering / featured #85: michael ellison – ceo of codepath.org, helping engineers advance their careers by timur meyster subscribe be the first to get the latest breaking into startups podcast updates, right to your inbox. we’ll never spam you. our guests came from: about us the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds.our mission is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. facebook twitter instagram © 2020 breaking into startups. privacy policy top join 1,055 other subscribers! email subscribe now we respect your privacy. join our newsletter today! stay updated with all the latest episodes, upcoming events & much more. hack reactor prep prepare for any coding bootcam (free) learn more no thanks!