newsletter sign up photography about press work with me faq contact portfolio about press work with me faq contact my name is kirsten i’m a travel photographer based in los angeles! i’ve worked in more than 50 countries on 6 continents but i’m not done traveling yet. the biggest passion that drives me is using my skills to tell visual stories that are socially conscious and environmentally responsible. learn more… whether he is an artist or not, the photographer is a joyous sensualist, for the simple reason that the eye traffics in feelings, not in thoughts. – walker evans follow my daily posts to see where i am and what i’m currently working on! i also provide travel tips and historical details in my captions so you can use my feed like your own personal guide book. so this staying at home thing isn’t easy is it. right before covid-19 began in earnest to spread t how are you all doing? are you staying healthy? sa “what’s the greatest lesson a woman should lea on march 1 a new @thefrancophiles newsletter went because of personal and professional events, i’v i had a very german day here at home in la yesterd the disney concert hall is a popular place to take load more... follow on instagram so this staying at home thing isn’t easy is it. right before covid-19 began in earnest to spread t how are you all doing? are you staying healthy? sa “what’s the greatest lesson a woman should lea load more... follow on instagram get social by following me on these platforms but make sure to engage so i can get to know you back! january 30, 2020 7 reasons to visit san francisco in 2020 november 30, 2019 small business saturday: what and where to buy november 6, 2019 dia de muertos: what it is and how to experience it in los angeles november 2, 2019 a guide to visiting franconia october 7, 2019 yosemite and sequoia: tips for visiting these national parks see where i’ve been, where i am and where i’m going next… subscribe stay up to date by receiving my monthly newsletter (i promise no spam!) contact me giving faq resources search for: can't find what you're looking for? simply search here with some keywords like a destination name or subject matter. where i’ve been buy photos bloglovin shop my favs featured by disclaimer | privacy | website by further bound | portraits of kirsten by danté vincent | copyright © kirsten alana 2008-2020