home about lauren blog destinations my travel anxiety course how to start a travel blog never ending footsteps home blog about lauren about lauren lauren in the media long-term travel faq where i’ve been the incidents contact hi, i’m lauren. i’ve been stumbling my way around the world for eight years and counting. it was back in 2011 when i quit my job, sold everything i owned, and left home with a one-way ticket in hand. everyone told me i was making a huge mistake. at the time, i had never traveled alone before, and never for more than two weeks at a time. i suffered from an anxiety disorder, was concerned about everything, and had just had my heart broken. like a lot of people, i hoped travel would solve everything. i set off convinced my trip would be all about incredible, life-changing moments; ones full of sunsets and rainbows and meaningful experiences. instead, i stumbled headfirst into disaster. over the past eight years of travel, i’ve been scammed in china and robbed in tanzania. i’ve face-planted into a sand dune in namibia and fallen into a leech-infested rice paddy in indonesia, accidentally eaten a cockroach in laos, and in vietnam, a ferry started to sink with me on board. i’ve been caught up in a tsunami in thailand, was stranded in the congo, and accidentally flashed my tour group in the cook islands. it’s hard to believe, but my bad luck was the best thing to ever happen to me. on never ending footsteps, i show that transformation through travel is possible, even when you feel as though you’re the unluckiest traveler in the world. i’m a different person to the one who stepped on that plane eight years ago. i’ve kicked my anxiety disorder to the curb, built up my confidence, and learned a ton about how to travel safely, wisely, and adventurously in the process. travel transformed my life. let me show you how it can change yours, too. learn from my mistakes, find the courage to follow your dreams, and laugh at my misfortune. let me show you how not to travel the world. continue reading the bloglatest posts australiamonthly summaries february 2020: travel summary and statistics lauren, march 2, 2020 what a wonderful month february was! i spent the entirety of the past four weeks in australia, and i loved getting to discover explore even more beautiful spots in this delightful country. from melbourne to the grampians to an adventure travel film festival to the great ocean road — i … read more 15 comments india pushkar travel guide: 11 things to do in pushkar lauren, february 20, 2020 pushkar felt different. from the moment i arrived, it felt unlike anywhere else i had visited in rajasthan. this is one of the oldest cities in india, and one of the holiest on the planet. and yet, it felt so laid-back — laid-back for india, anyway. pushkar is a beautiful … read more 7 comments india the ultimate guide to india’s golden triangle lauren, february 8, 2020 the golden triangle is a popular tourist circuit in northern india. in fact, it’s the most popular part of the country for visitors. it encompasses the triangular region between new delhi, agra, and jaipur, with every city located around 125 miles from the others. these days, the golden triangle receives … read more 5 comments monthly summariesnew zealand january 2020: travel summary and statistics lauren, february 2, 2020 i don’t even know how to begin writing about january. it was… a month. i kicked off 2020 with a panicked phone call to new zealand’s healthline service at 3 a.m. on new year’s day. i had spontaneously developed nerve pain across my body — tingling and prickling all over, … read more 19 comments indiatravel expenses the cost of travel in india: a detailed budget breakdown lauren, january 25, 2020 india is one of the cheapest countries i’ve ever travelled to. but not only that, it’s one of the best value places i’ve visited. value is important when it comes to travel. there’s no joy in spending $5 on a dorm bed if it’s frequented by cockroaches and dengue-carrying mosquitoes … read more 6 comments india 12 reasons why i absolutely loved rajasthan lauren, january 21, 2020 how to begin writing about my life-changing trip to rajasthan? i’ve spent the past week wrestling with just that, trying to figure out which blog post to write first. i can’t remember taking a trip that blew my mind so much as my three weeks in rajasthan did, and i’m … read more 17 comments where i've beentravel statistics number of continents: 5 number of countries: 86 days on the road: 3176 distance travelled: 285,998 miles number of flights: 198 number of trains: 99 number of buses: 123 number of boats: 60 beds slept in: 370 about about lauren frequently asked questions travel map privacy policy resources how to start a travel blog my monthly travel summaries how i fund my travels how you can travel if you have anxiety copyright lauren juliff © 2010-2019. all rights reserved. ↑ back to top