newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close home financing i used a heloc for my fixer-upper and it was great—for a little whilereal estate here's home equity lines of credit work. dana mcmahan 2 days ago can’t pay your mortgage or rent during the coronavirus outbreak?real estate here's what to do. brittany anas 3 days ago this is the expense i never saw coming as a first-time homeownerreal estate here's how to budget for it. brittany anas mar 23, 2020 why you should—and shouldn’t—refinance right now, according to expertsreal estate here's the lowdown on interest rates. terri williams mar 20, 2020 3 ways to recession-proof your home, according to expertsreal estate here’s what you should be doing right now to protect your house. lauren wellbank mar 12, 2020 4 home improvement projects that'll double your tax refundreal estate get the most bang for your buck by focusing on these updates. lauren wellbank mar 8, 2020 the 5 worst pieces of mortgage advice one real estate agent has ever heardreal estate mortgages are already confusing without all the conflicting advice. chelsea greenwood lassman feb 26, 2020 the 5 best pieces of mortgage advice one real estate agent has ever heardreal estate hold your horses on a career change, for one. chelsea greenwood lassman feb 20, 2020 6 debt-free strategies that financial advisors won’t tell you for freeliving there are experts out there advising paying clients every day, sharing only the best, most proven options for saving money and tackling debt. olivia muenter feb 8, 2020 thinking of using your tax return for a down payment? read this firstreal estate two finance pros share the questions you should be asking yourself before you decide. lauren wellbank feb 2, 2020 31 money-saving tips to conquer your financial goals this monthreal estate budget better, one day at a time. brittany anas jan 14, 2020 why experts say 43 is the magic number potential homeowners should knowreal estate ever hear of debt-to-income ratio? brittany anas jan 6, 2020 living near a trader joe's can up your home's value—but it could also suckreal estate because, of course, nothing is perfect! lambeth hochwald nov 8, 2019 psa: you don't need a perfect credit to buy a housereal estate don't let a good market pass you by! brittany anas oct 30, 2019 you may never feel "ready" to buy a home—here’s why that shouldn’t stop youreal estate “millennials may perceive home buying as more risky than previous generations because we were raised on infinite choice, frequent change, and came to age with a lot of financial volatility.” brittany anas oct 30, 2019 fyi: you don't actually need 20 percent down to buy a homereal estate plus, how to know if this myth is keeping you from buying a home. brittany anas oct 30, 2019 i've reached the limit of renovations making financial sense—but i can't stopreal estate i know perfectly well that there's a point when enough is enough and a home becomes functionally obsolete... but i just can't help myself. dana mcmahan oct 24, 2019 5 easy-to-overlook things that can increase the value of your homereal estate the more appealing a home is on the market to the majority of buyers, the higher price it may fetch. megan johnson oct 23, 2019 10 surprising ways working from home affects your budgetreal estate yes, you'll save on commuting—but probably not as much as you think you will. diana kelly oct 2, 2019 4 countries where homeownership is way different than americareal estate turns out, the 30-year mortgage is so not the norm. brittany anas sep 28, 2019 5 reasons your credit score may actually be lower than you thinkreal estate that three-digit number isn't always as stable as you'd like it to be. brittany anas sep 16, 2019 5 easy ways anyone can get closer to a perfect credit scorereal estate there are no “hacks”, per se, when it comes to reaching a perfect credit score, but there are habits you can start now that will pay off over time. brittany anas sep 4, 2019 why you should totally start designing your retirement home in your 30sreal estate what started as seemingly random talk has literally revolutionized the way i think about expenses. katherine j. igoe aug 15, 2019 the trader joe's effect: why it pays to live near tj'sreal estate while you may think your proximity to cauliflower gnocchi and candy cane joe joe’s is draining your bank account, a new analysis says it may actually be making you money if you own a house. megan johnson aug 8, 2019 this week on liz$plaining: the unexpected costs of buying a homereal estate if there's one thing i feel passionately about (besides existential theater, cheesecake, and hot dads), it's that many people could probably buy a home if they realized it's possible. liz steelman jul 30, 2019 what most people get wrong about adjustable-rate mortgagesreal estate though adjustable-rate mortgages have gotten a bad rap post housing crisis, experts say they can actually make financial sense in certain situations. brittany anas jul 13, 2019 23 of the greatest (expert-approved!) credit score tips of all timereal estate we went through all the credit score-focused articles we've published in the past year and rounded up the best tips experts have shared with us. here, the best of the best credit score tips and tricks. liz steelman jul 12, 2019 3 ways to raise your credit score fastreal estate if you understand what's keeping your score down, you might be able to bounce it back up quickly. liz steelman jul 2, 2019 our newest series “liz$plaining” is personal finance for real peoplereal estate finance is boring, but our real estate editor, liz, sure isn't! in our new series called liz$plaining, liz will guide you through all your toughest financial questions. liz steelman jul 2, 2019 the 6 budget choices that actually helped me buy a housereal estate to keep on track with my savings goals, here are six budgeting strategies i enacted (with insight from a personal finance expert) brittany anas jun 23, 2019 the best investment advice i got from my grandfather, a landlord of 25+ yearsreal estate though i know my grandparents came up in a different time, i've learned a lot about real estate investing from them. lauren ramirez jun 22, 2019 3 things the savviest homebuyers all know about mortgage fraudreal estate real talk: the chances that you could commit mortgage fraud unknowingly are minimal. the industry has become much more highly regulated in recent years to prevent issues like this. “if you’re working with a reputable lender or a bank and you’re a fairly savvy consumer, it’s probably not something you’ll come across,” say ed deveau, a realtor with century 21 mario real estate in boston. megan johnson apr 25, 2019 4 reasons why you should still go to open houses, even if you’re not looking to movereal estate you know the drill. a “for sale” sign pops up in your neighborhood and as soon as you see the open house you’re there. we just can’t stand the curiosity, right? what’s the space look like, how much is it selling for? what does it mean for our home and what it might sell for one day? i’m right there with you. my husband and i haunt the open house circuit in our neighborhood of victorian homes. dana mcmahan apr 24, 2019 the 1 thing most people get wrong about their credit scorereal estate "you only have one credit score." true or false? brittany anas apr 24, 2019 how do you keep from going too far with your fixer upper?real estate while stuck in the middle may not sound too appealing, it's exactly where you want to be when it comes to real estate. dana mcmahan apr 23, 2019 the frustration-free guide to getting (and understanding) your free annual credit reportreal estate every year, you’re entitled to a free credit report. you can consider it a financial wellness exam of sorts as the comprehensive report details your credit activity, getting into the nitty-gritty details of on-time payments and credit limits. but, this all-encompassing report won’t just automatically arrive in your mailbox. you’ve got to ask for it. here’s what you need to know about requesting your annual credit report, and what it all includes. brittany anas apr 16, 2019 5 money lessons you can learn from people who bought their own homes in their 20sreal estate if you’re under 30, buying a home might sound like a far-fetched dream: fewer people between ages 25 to 34 are buying homes now compared to older generations at that age, according to a july 2018 report from the urban institute. andrea sielicki apr 15, 2019 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc