contact about us open what we do open history zero carbon britain become a member people media latest open news & blog what’s on volunteer vacancies petition come to cat open visit cat open visit plan your visit getting to cat visitor centre tickets facilities and accessibility groups & learning open school visits university visits corporate groups other groups venue hire open event spaces catering & hospitality accommodation weddings stay open wise building group accommodation info & resources open zero carbon britain free information service clean slate courses and training open graduate school open courses studying distance learning fees & funding open days and events people prospectus faqs apply short courses shop join & donate open join us open join renew membership other ways to support cat donate leave a gift contact open menu close menu about us open what we do people media latest open news & blog what’s on volunteer vacancies petition come to cat open visit cat groups & learning venue hire stay info & resources open zero carbon britain free information service clean slate courses and training open graduate school short courses shop join & donate open join us donate leave a gift search for: cancel join the change centre for alternative technology radical action is needed if we are to avoid dangerous climate breakdown. cat offers practical solutions and hands-on learning to help create a zero carbon world. enews sign up join follow us twitter facebook instagram coronavirus update: we have temporarily closed the cat visitor centre to support the safety and wellbeing of our staff, volunteers, guests and the wider community. click here for more information help change the future support cat today donate now latest zero carbon britain report our latest report shows that we already have the tools and technology needed to get to zero carbon. learn more graduate school - applications now open explore sustainability and how you can help create change on one of our postgraduate courses. learn more zero carbon britain: rising to the climate emergency our latest report, zero carbon britain: rising to the climate emergency, is out now. incorporating work from the last 12 years of zero carbon britain research and the latest scientific and technological developments, the report presents a technically feasible scenario showcasing a future zero carbon britain using only proven technology. click here to read the report visit cat there’s so much to see and do at cat, with hands-on learning for all ages. visit us to explore all aspects of green living. learn more what's on build a tiny garden (cancelled) 28th march 2020 short course how to create biodiverse and productive gardens in small spaces. gardens come in all shapes and sizes, and if you thought yours was too small to cultivate veggies and be… read more traditional timber frame joints (cancelled) 28th march 2020 short course a hands-on workshop giving you the skills to start working with timber frames learn how to measure, mark out and cut perfect joints used in traditional timber framing. this one… read more social forestry ocn (cancelled) 31st march 2020 short course woodlands for wellbeing. learn the theory and practice of social forestry, looking at how sustainable woodland management and crafts can help promote human wellbeing. covering working with groups and individuals… read more graduate school of the environment gain the knowledge and skills to help address environmental change. cat’s postgraduate courses are respected across the world, providing a big-picture, integrated approach to sustainability. learn more zero carbon britain to tackle climate change, all emissions that can go to zero must go to zero – as rapidly as possible. cat’s zero carbon britain research shows how this can be done using technology available today. learn more educational trips bring your school, college or educational group to cat and start exploring positive solutions to environmental challenges. learn more short courses gain practical skills and hands-on experience with one of our day, weekend or week-long sustainability courses. learn more latest from the cat blog coronavirus update 18th march 2020 temporary closure – 18 march 2020. with the global outbreak of coronavirus (covid-19), cat is following uk and welsh government, environmental health and industry advice very closely. this page will… read more adaptation: from coping to transformation 12th march 2020 wildfires, drought, hurricanes, flooding – the impacts of our emissions are impossible to ignore. tanya hawkes looks at how plans can be made for an uncertain future. read more global perspective: who is already adapting? 12th march 2020 across the world, many areas are already developing the tools to adapt to climate change, some with informal settlement change and some with more formal strategies. cat msc student tanya… read more free information service wondering what you can do in your own home to help combat climate change? cat’s free information service offers independent and impartial advice on a wide range of areas to help you live more sustainably. photovoltaic (pv) solar panels generate electricity from the sun. photovoltaic (pv) solar panels convert sunlight into electricity. you can use the electricity to power domestic appliances, and export excess energy to the grid. this… read more natural and low impact building materials at cat we’ve been using natural building materials for many years, and you can see examples all around our visitor centre. we also run hands-on courses and workshops and sell… read more energy saving at home from the very earliest days of cat we have focused on building and renovating to high levels of insulation, so that we consume less energy. reducing our energy demand makes… read more see all cat skyline contact cat want to get involved or need more information? we’d love to hear from you. contact us e-news sign up follow us twitter facebook instagram home contact us donate jobs blog getting to cat twitter facebook instagram privacy notice cookie policy sitemap copyright © 2020 centre for alternative technology charity limited. charity no. 265239. company no. 1090006. registered in wales; registered office: llwyngwern quarry, machynlleth, powys, sy20 9az; vat number: 377 8917 83