skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home artist ashley longshore is on a mission to create meaningful, joyful art artist ashley longshore is an artist with a mission: to create meaningful, joyful art and, in doing so, to create a more beautiful world. it’s a tall order, but she is up for the task. some media have called longshore a genius. others have used the term “fashion darling.” many… by meaghan clark on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 12 fresh new front door colors to welcome you home getty images we love the look of a colorful front door to welcome guests into our home. perhaps our front door is like our home’s jewelry — adding a little sparkle to the curb appeal. painting your front door is one of the quickest (and prettiest) ways to… by diana hathaway on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 6 essentials every home should have furnishing a home can be an overwhelming process. in today’s world, there are a million home products to crowd our spaces with. from specialized kitchen gadgets to endless designs of throw pillows, it’s hard to know which home essentials we truly need in our dwellings. we’ve put to… by danica rog on march 4, 2020 in inspiration stunningly scandinavian interior designs it’s straightforward while remaining ultra-functional. it celebrates natural light in a place that can go many months with very little sun. it there anything as stunningly simple as a scandinavian interior? known for its simplicity, function, and connection to the outdoors, the appeal and poss… by danica rog on march 19, 2020 in inspiration modern light fixtures you can diy this weekend when the days are getting darker, how can we make our style shine a bit brighter? enter these diy light ideas. they’re sleek and simple enough to add a modern touch to your home, and easy enough for even beginner diy-ers to tackle as a weekend project. some are made… by danica rog on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 20 dramatic home exteriors proving black is the new black when it comes to home design, black may be the new black. traditionally, the superstition of black exteriors has kept it from being a popular choice for homeowners. but with the influence of prominent designers (think johnathon alder and simon doonan), 21st-century home trends are changing. as archi… by danica rog on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 12 daybed ideas we’re daydreaming about a few weeks ago, i saw a picture on instagram of a simple white daybed on a glass-enclosed porch. it was raining outside, but bright inside, and i decided immediately that my someday-home with its own bright porch will need to have a daybed just like this. as someone who thinks… by danica rog on march 17, 2020 in bedroom 5 modern and chic ideas for your home office everyone has a different set of needs for their workspace, so many design ideas are by no means one-size-fits-all. however, that doesn’t mean that creating the perfect office space is impossible, far from it. so, if you’re feeling overwhelmed by the idea of creating a space that will allow you… by tara mastroeni on march 11, 2020 in other rooms why millennials are moving home design trends millennials (who are the up-and-coming home buyers) are beginning to drastically shape home design. image source: gunlock homes home design trends are like fashion— constantly in flux. what’s hot one minute is not so hot the next, leaving you with an outdated home. let’s try… by shelley little on march 4, 2020 in moving why home automation is essential for energy efficiency home automation is no longer reserved for the extremely wealthy or the tech lover. image source: unique stone it once seemed like something from science fiction, but home automation technology is here—and it may be the key to maximizing your home’s energy… by shelley little on march 4, 2020 in energy 1 2 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss