skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me i’m drew binsky & i make daily travel videos. 1 billion video views & 5 million social media followers. come join me! where to find me facebook 2,700,000+ youtube 1,300,000+ snapchat 105,300+ instagram 420,000+ twitter 65,600+ watch my travel reel popular videos popular posts why you should visit baku, azerbaijan ultimate travel guide to hanoi, vietnam north korea is not what i expected, and here’s why… recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visited iran is not what you think!! join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18) work with me “drew engages his audience with informative and insightful travel tips with great personality! germany was and is eager to work with him in order to reach an audience that simply put-travels differently. drew understands what his followers want to see and he is a pleasure to work with: from the planning stages of a trip to the on-the-ground moments. he’s always willing to try new ideas, receive feedback, but also provide it. brands aspiring to reach the snapchat traveler shouldn’t miss the opportunity to work with drew as he grows his fan-base.” – john v., marketing manager of germany national tourism office “drew had the opportunity to dream big in california on a 6-day, 1,000-mile road trip spanning los angeles, north lake tahoe, mammoth lakes and yosemite national park. throughout the experience, drew went above-and-beyond in his content creation, providing his – and our – audience with imagery that was creative, beautiful and informative. we enjoyed working with drew very much and would recommend working with him.” – molly o., media relations coordinator of visit california send me a message and let's work together! close work with me most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.