request give make join us volunteer international about team contact us press successes sign the petition share your story donate #getusppe healthcare workers are the front line fighters against the covid-19 pandemic. however, they are now facing critical shortages of personal protective equipment (ppe) nationwide. ppe enhances the safety of our healthcare workers so they can can continue to care for our loved ones. please join us today in helping to find, make, and bring ppe to our healthcare heroes. i need ppe i have ppe support in multiple ways for those in need request donations for those seeking to give click here to get started for the maker community small distributed manufacturing of validated designs donate support us financially to purchase ppe as featured on see our press coverage high demand ppe items we have significant needs for the following items: n95 respirators these masks are critical in helping to protect healthcare workers from droplets and aerosols. surgical masks although not as secure as n95 masks, surgical masks do offer a significant degree of protection against droplets with sars-cov-2. protective goggles eyes/eyelashes are a known source of transmission of sars-cov-2, especially in aerosolizing procedures. gloves (nitrile, non powdered) we are running low on gloves, a critical item in the hospital in patient care. face shields to assist in preventing droplets and airborne sars-cov-2 from entering our eyes, a known source of transmission. wipes: disinfectant these wipes are critical to wiping down medical machinery, workspaces, computers and rooms after patients have been in them. sign the petition healthcare workers across the world are demanding ppe. join us in a call to action from the federal government to help now. #getmeppe sign the petition the views and opinions expressed on #getusppe are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of any hospital or employer institutions. any content provided by our bloggers or authors are of their opinion and are not intended to malign any religion, ethnic group, club, organization, company, individual or anyone or anything. under construction partners equity resources © 2020 get us ppe. request give make join us volunteer international about team contact us press successes sign the petition share your story donate