about tsp features editor’s desk roundtables changing lenses clippings office hours discoveries teaching tsp there’s research on that contexts council on contemporary families social studies mn sociological images a backstage sociologist center for holocaust & genocide studies cyborgology dispatches from a dean economic sociology engaging sports families as they really are feminist reflections girl w/ pen give methods a chance graphic sociology new books in sociology public criminology sociological eye sociology improv sociology source sociology toolbox the color line thickculture toggle navigation blog pinterest for instructors about socimages blog pinterest for instructors about socimages follow socimages twitter facebook pinterest tumblr youtube rss tsp political ads, no filter popular threads does blindness beat bias? by evan stewart because everything is currently terrible, i binge-watched love is blind. in case you are planning to do the same, this is a spoiler-free post. you probably know the premise: contestants in this romantic reality romp go on speed dates in little pods. they can’t see their conversation partners, and at the end of the dates […] social inequality, medical fears, and pandemics by joseph o. baker, ann gordon, l. edward day, and christopher d. bader who’s afraid of a global pandemic? we all are, at the moment. but like so many other forms of fear, concern about medical issues is much more acute for people in precarious and vulnerable social positions. the privileged—particularly those who are white and upper class—can more afford not to be preoccupied with health and medical […] what’s weird about where you’re from? by evan stewart sociologists spend a lot of time thinking about lives in social context: how the relationships and communities we live in shape the way we understand ourselves and move through the world. it can be tricky to start thinking about this, but one easy way to do it is to start collecting social facts. start by […] tweets by @socimages editor and principal writer evan stewart is an assistant professor of sociology at university of massachusetts boston. his research on political culture and public opinion, especially on the political impact of the growing nonreligious population in the united states, has appeared in journals such as social forces, social currents, and the sociological quarterly. evan holds a phd in sociology from the university of minnesota and a ba in political theory and social policy from michigan state university. founder lisa wade, phd, is the editor and principal writer for sociological images. born and raised in california, she earned a ba in philosophy from uc santa barbara, an ma in human sexuality from nyu, and a phd in sociology from the university of wisconsin, madison. she is now a tenured professor at occidental college in los angeles. her most recent book, american hookup, is an open-minded, compassionate, and unflinching account of the new culture of sex on campus. she is also the author of the bestselling textbook gender: ideas, interactions, institutions, with myra marx ferree, and the co-editor of assigned, a book about life with gender. she is currently working on what she hopes will be a rousing, tide-turning take on the introduction to sociology textbook. you can join lisa on twitter, facebook, and instagram. or, you can visit her website for her curriculum vitae, syllabi, information on public speaking, and more. tags leisure friendship sports sex height/heightism activism/social movements disaster media violence demography culture animals dance smoking/tobacco socialization crime/law abortion/reproduction academia knowledge/intelligence environment/nature food/agriculture immigration/citizenship bodies children/youth clothes/fashion commodification consumption cultural imperialism/(neo)colonialism death discourse/language health/medicine history humor marriage/family methods/use of data nationalism/patriotism prejudice/discrimination race/ethnicity class science/technology social construction social networks travel/tourism war/military emotion education rural/urban disability age/aging social structure economics social psychology deviance celebrity religion sexual orientation gender globalization biology psychology public opinion modern/primitive energy work intersectionality housing/residential segregation organizations/institutions politics cc attribution non-commercial share alike