skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources home business why i’ve changed my freelance business to an s corp election (finally) february 8, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment after years of listening to my accountant recommend this course of action, i've finally changed my freelance business to an s corp election. pretty much since i switched accountants, eric nisall … continue reading about why i’ve changed my freelance business to an s corp election (finally) 3 strategies to make life easier at tax time march 20, 2019 by miranda marquit 7 comments do you dread tax season? all the paperwork and scrambling can be stressful. here are three tips that can make life easier at tax time. i have a confession. it's almost april and i haven't got my … continue reading about 3 strategies to make life easier at tax time 3 things your home business should know about the paypal 1099-k february 14, 2019 by miranda marquit 65 comments are you getting a paypal 1099-k? you just might be. get ready for a little extra paperwork. i hope you keep detailed records as a home business owner because if you are issued a paypal 1099-k, … continue reading about 3 things your home business should know about the paypal 1099-k 3 tips for setting up your new office may 31, 2018 by miranda marquit leave a comment at some point, your home business may grow into an out-of-home business. when that day comes, consider these three tips for setting up your new office. i recently moved my home office to a new … continue reading about 3 tips for setting up your new office 5 tips for designing a business logo may 25, 2018 by miranda marquit 1 comment ready to launch your business? here are a few tips for designing a business logo. i've got a logo for this website. and i've got a logo ? sort of ? that i use for my freelancing website. but i … continue reading about 5 tips for designing a business logo should you buy a franchise or start your own business? march 1, 2018 by miranda marquit leave a comment one of the best ways to diversify your income is to start your own business. however, that can be time-intensive and have the possibility of failure. another way to be your own boss is to buy a … continue reading about should you buy a franchise or start your own business? go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 30 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com