find a course sign up coursera blog degrees for business for educators product news stories home page helping universities and colleges take learning online in response to the coronavirus welcoming dr. betty vandenbosch as our new chief content officer coursera together: free online learning during covid-19 latest posts all data science computer science business personal development arts & humanities building practical skills through hands-on projects march 27, 2020 meet paras, an aspiring data scientist learning from mumbai. see how he used hands-on projects and exercises from his courses to build in-demand skills and accelerate his data career. in his own words, here’s his story. i started taking courses on coursera because i wanted to gain practical skills and apply them to what i’ve… learner story novartis extends coursera to friends and family in response to covid-19 march 27, 2020 by leah belsky, chief enterprise officer, coursera the spread of coronavirus (covid-19) has profoundly affected the way companies operate. in a matter of days, organizations around the globe have transitioned millions of employees to remote working to keep their community safe. the well-being of employees remains the utmost priority, and ensuring employees stay engaged while… coursera for business building a career in data science march 23, 2020 meet data scientist, lifelong learner, and ai community leader mo who has completed more than 40 courses on coursera! recruiters contacted him and chose him out of 200 other candidates to be a co-founder and chief data scientist at an ai startup after seeing his certificates from the deep learning specialization and tensorflow in practice… data science 5 moving online: what you can implement now march 16, 2020 photo taken from the imba program from the university of illinois, hosted on coursera by linlin xia and alexandra urban, teaching & learning team, coursera online, live sessions provide effective synchronous learning opportunities and create a space to engage with your students while remote. in particular, live events are optimal for: mastering content that requires… education 31 product news ready for retention: presenting a unified note-taking experience september 9, 2019 ken sun, director of product management, coursera what did you learn in your last course on coursera? what were the important concepts presented each week? could you draw one graph the instructor used? if recalling ...read more by ken sun, sr. director of product management updates to your learning experience on coursera march 19, 2019 at coursera, we’re always working on making your learning experience more rewarding than ever. our latest updates are designed to provide you with tools that help you make progress on-the-go and stay on track with ...read more introducing the coursera global skills index march 14, 2019 by emily glassberg sands, head of data science, coursera today marks the release of the inaugural coursera global skills index (gsi), an in-depth look at skill trends and performance around the world, made possible by ...read more coursera provides universal access to the world’s best education, partnering with top universities and organizations to offer courses online. © 2020 coursera inc. all rights reserved. coursera about leadership careers catalog professional certificates mastertrack™ certificates degrees for enterprise for campus for government community learners partners developers beta testers translators tech blog connect blog facebook linkedin twitter instagram more terms privacy help accessibility press contact directory affiliates