home latest news social media tech sports travel business about us meet the team advertise with us connect with us basic thinking international tech inductive charging: electric cars with unlimited range? austrian electric car “enjoy” comes from 3d printer mellow boards surfer tested: the german challenger boosted board tested: fun, dangerous, expensive 4 unusual facts about lithium-ion batteries social media social media feed with juicer: perfect for your website storrito: create and schedule instagram stories conveniently from your desktop biggest revenue: instagram is the most important influencer platform 95 million bots: one in ten instagram accounts is fake facebook versus youtube: there can be only one winner business is your company gdpr ready? a checklist for start-ups! social media feed with juicer: perfect for your website ps: i love you – hotmail’s growth hack no more noisy surprises: chrome prevents autoplay online dating: how the tinder algorithm works sports are manchester city’s long-term plans finally coming together? mlbam, “the biggest media company you’ve never heard of” study: football fans in china love club sponsorship angry birds on the shirt sleeves of fc everton gunners start arsenal innovation lab travel price discrimination? how travel portals fool you without you noticing get ready to fly: the first flying train is on the way! expansion in the usa: flixbus challenges greyhound chinese “train” soon to run autonomously – on painted rails where are the electric pickup trucks? ad2 years ago social media feed with juicer: perfect for your website it is not always easy to keep a company's website up to date, to constantly add and update content. with... ad2 years ago storrito: create and schedule instagram stories conveniently from your desktop travel2 years ago price discrimination? how travel portals fool you without you noticing social media social media2 years ago biggest revenue: instagram is the most important influencer platform social media2 years ago 95 million bots: one in ten instagram accounts is fake social media2 years ago facebook versus youtube: there can be only one winner social media2 years ago why twitter doesn’t delete donald trump’s insults social media3 years ago since january 2017: massive collapse in facebook engagement social media3 years ago long awaited feature: soon you will be able to share instagram stories on facebook tech tech2 years ago inductive charging: electric cars with unlimited range? tech2 years ago austrian electric car “enjoy” comes from 3d printer tech3 years ago mellow boards surfer tested: the german challenger tech3 years ago boosted board tested: fun, dangerous, expensive tech3 years ago 4 unusual facts about lithium-ion batteries tech3 years ago big brother with a phrase book: testing out google home sports sports2 years ago are manchester city’s long-term plans finally coming together? sports2 years ago mlbam, “the biggest media company you’ve never heard of” sports3 years ago study: football fans in china love club sponsorship sports3 years ago angry birds on the shirt sleeves of fc everton sports3 years ago gunners start arsenal innovation lab sports3 years ago nfl season 2017/18: the 7 most important innovations travel travel2 years ago get ready to fly: the first flying train is on the way! travel2 years ago expansion in the usa: flixbus challenges greyhound travel2 years ago chinese “train” soon to run autonomously – on painted rails travel3 years ago where are the electric pickup trucks? travel3 years ago why should an autonomous car look like a car? travel3 years ago luxury problem? this start-up wants to dispose of the garbage of rich yacht owners business ad8 months ago is your company gdpr ready? a checklist for start-ups! business2 years ago ps: i love you – hotmail’s growth hack business3 years ago no more noisy surprises: chrome prevents autoplay business3 years ago online dating: how the tinder algorithm works business3 years ago why reddit is also exciting for advertisers business3 years ago $3 billion a year: google pays off apple more news ad2 years ago deploybot can help you with your deployment process great software and web applications don't just appear out of nowhere. ad2 years ago onair teaching platform introduces 4 contests for online live courses the online learning market is thirsty for new content and innovative lecturers. get your idea developed into an onair course at teach.xplorify and start your teaching... sports3 years ago all 32 teams participating in the madden nfl club championship in august electronic arts (ea) and the nfl announced the launch of the madden nfl club championship. sports3 years ago dazn: everything about the “netflix of sports” no tv rights discussion anymore without dazn. sports3 years ago dfb: change management by jürgen klinsmann (2/2) "klinsmann was above all a motivator and press clerk, while loew has pulled the threads." this is the tenor in the german media and fan scene. social media3 years ago why whatsapp is so unpopular in the usa only in the home country of whatsapp, the usa, no one seems to use the app. why? sports3 years ago dfb: change management by jürgen klinsmann (1/2) it is extremely difficult to change a previously successful organization that is in crisis. jürgen klinsmann and his team faced this problem in 2004. with the... social media3 years ago big update for whatsapp status: this is new whatsapp status has already 250 million users per day. now there is a big update for these users. we sum up what changes. sports3 years ago nfl & tencent promote social media streaming in china tencent sports will be the new entry point to stream the nfl live in china. sports3 years ago mayweather vs. mcgregor: “the fight of the century” the mega fight between mayweather and mcgregor on august 26 is considered the most lucrative boxing match ever. both athletes expect revenues of $ 100 million... more posts page 1 of 71234567 like us on facebook latest popular ad8 months ago is your company gdpr ready? a checklist for start-ups! ad2 years ago social media feed with juicer: perfect for your website ad2 years ago storrito: create and schedule instagram stories conveniently from your desktop travel2 years ago price discrimination? how travel portals fool you without you noticing travel2 years ago get ready to fly: the first flying train is on the way! social media2 years ago biggest revenue: instagram is the most important influencer platform social media2 years ago 95 million bots: one in ten instagram accounts is fake social media2 years ago facebook versus youtube: there can be only one winner sports2 years ago are manchester city’s long-term plans finally coming together? ad2 years ago deploybot can help you with your deployment process about us meet the team news ticker get in touch advertise with us legal disclosure privacy policy © 2017 basic thinking gmbh we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more