home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » home & auto maintenance millie’s remodel: hvac update + how to extend the life of your hvac system december 13, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments this is the next update in the millie's remodel series. recently i had to decide whether i needed to replace the hvac unit for millie. although it was an expensive proposition, the decision on brand was an easy one for me. millie's remodel: hvac update + how to extend the life … [read more...] home & auto maintenance, home maintenance, millie's remodel anatomy of the perfect contractor’s truck november 15, 2019 brittany bailey 4 comments after over two years of general contracting, i've finally transformed my truck into the perfect contractor's truck. whether you're a woodworker, a contractor, a remodeler, or a serial diyer, you'll find this article about the anatomy of the perfect contractor's truck beneficial … [read more...] automotive, home & auto maintenance what you need in your disaster preparedness emergency kit september 3, 2019 brittany bailey 4 comments let's take a few minutes to learn what you need in your disaster preparedness emergency kit. it might save your life! what you need in your disaster preparedness emergency kit intense weather patterns are becoming much more common. sadly it's becoming a new normal. are you … [read more...] emergency preparedness, home & auto maintenance how to stretch tight shoes may 20, 2019 brittany bailey 4 comments how to stretch tight shoes have you ever bought a pair of shoes because they were super cute, but they were a tad too tight. if you're like me, you probably bought them and thought, "they'll stretch out if i wear them enough." then a year or two later you put them on and … [read more...] diy, home & auto maintenance, thrifting, trash to treasure, upcycling, video how to remove scratches from a cast iron sink or tub march 26, 2019 brittany bailey 20 comments while i was helping my client get her house ready to sell she said they were committed to replacing the cast iron bathtub in their boys' bathroom because it was scratched and stained. i told her to hold off because i knew how to clean cast iron sinks and bathtubs to look new … [read more...] cleaning, home & auto maintenance, video how and why you should install a smart lock on your door march 22, 2019 brittany bailey 6 comments how and why you should install a smart lock on your door smart locks have been around for a while, but i've been slow to jump on the bandwagon and install a smart lock. i worried they might be tricky to install and had heard stories of the technology being glitchy (although i … [read more...] home & auto maintenance, home decor, renovation how to drill new door knob holes march 4, 2019 brittany bailey leave a comment how to drill new holes for door knobs every once in a while, you might find yourself with a new (or old) door that needs a hole drilled into it for a door knob (or a deadbolt). today i have the perfect tutorial to ease your mind and help you learn how to drill a new hole for … [read more...] home & auto maintenance, home decor, saving etta, video how to fix cracks in door panels without taking the door apart march 1, 2019 brittany bailey 5 comments how to fix cracks in door panels without taking the door apart wooden doors will develop cracks over time, especially if the panels aren't free to expand and contract. most of the time, years of paint or caulking the seams around the panels will cause the wood to stick and not … [read more...] before and after, door, fix it, hole filling, hole repair, home & auto maintenance, home maintenance, saving etta how i kept my high efficiency washer mold free for 10+ years august 29, 2018 brittany bailey 125 comments it's been a decade since we bought our front-loading he washer and i've managed to keep it smelling clean for 10 years! with just three simple steps, you too can banish the funky, mildew, and moldy smelling clothes washer. here's how to keep your he clothes washer and laundry … [read more...] cleaning, home & auto maintenance, laundry room, popular how to install a new window august 27, 2018 brittany bailey 5 comments installing new windows on your home isn’t rocket science, but it is recommended that you have some construction experience before tackling this project. if you have the skills, the install should only take an hour or less. today i'll show you how to install a new construction … [read more...] build it, home & auto maintenance, renovation, saving etta do you need new windows? things to consider before you buy august 24, 2018 brittany bailey 3 comments you've decided it's time to replace your windows (or you are building a house and need to order new windows.) deciding which windows to purchase can be an overwhelming process. i'm here to help. do you need new windows? things to consider before you buy recently, i found … [read more...] home & auto maintenance, saving etta how is drywall made and what is purple drywall? july 3, 2018 brittany bailey 69 comments how is drywall made and what is purple drywall? watching how drywall is made may sound akin to watching paint dry, but let me tell you that couldn't be further from the truth! it is a very cool process to observe! plus, i'm about to rock your world by sharing how purple … [read more...] home & auto maintenance exterior paint color scheme at saving etta june 23, 2018 brittany bailey 30 comments exterior paint color scheme at saving etta things are moving along on the house. i know i owe you another saving etta chapter. please know it's on my to do list. the past two weeks have been absolutely insane. my electrician, plumber, and hvac contractors have been putting in … [read more...] home & auto maintenance, home maintenance how to hire great contractors and the questions you need to ask february 12, 2018 brittany bailey 5 comments how to hire great contractors and questions you need to ask hiring a great contractor can be a tough task. the actual experience can be so paralyzing that some people ultimately give up on their dreams of a renovated space. i have a good friend who felt completely overwhelmed by … [read more...] home & auto maintenance, home maintenance, renovation how to repair a dishwasher november 24, 2017 brittany bailey 5 comments how to repair a dishwasher: control panel the holidays are here and your kitchen will surely be getting a work out! now is not the time for your dishwasher to break. recently we found ourselves with a non-functional dishwasher. the control panel buttons stopped working and … [read more...] electrical, fix it, home & auto maintenance, home maintenance, repair top tips for improving your indoor air quality october 30, 2017 brittany bailey 1 comment top tips for improving your indoor air quality have you ever asked yourself if those persistent cold and allergy symptoms could be caused by your house? sick houses and the horror stories of chronic health symptoms are all over the news. if you've ever wondered if your house is … [read more...] home & auto maintenance 1 2 3 … 11 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok