u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost home & living. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition home & living zone 1 how to prepare for your pets in case of a coronavirus emergency zone 2 new movies and shows on netflix, and what’s leaving is it safe to reuse a face mask? how to disinfect food and your kitchen for coronavirus grocery delivery is overbooked. here’s what companies are doing about it. what are essential services and jobs during the coronavirus crisis? this usps program is just what you need to help manage coronavirus risk huffpost finds where to stock up on wine, beer and alcohol while social distancing without going broke 30 desks for small spaces that aren’t a nightmare to build the best online grocery delivery services to have on hand brought to you by huffpost finds zone 3 looking for an at-home activity? take an online class for fun. need to fill your time while social distancing? online courses will keep you from reaching for the roku remote. candles are the only thing that makes sense anymore by the look of it, we're all lighting up to relieve stress and anxiety these days. try out these 12 zoom hacks to improve your next virtual meetup conduct smoother video conferences with these tips from work-from-home veterans. how to improve your work-from-home space when you don't have a desk no desk? no problem. these finds will help you stay organized even if you're working from your bed. bring the outdoors in with these helpful plant delivery services grab cheap indoor plants online with the help of these plant and flower delivery services 🌿 here's how to make your next bath relaxing af these relaxing bath products will be there for your next soak. how to make kids' birthdays special in spite of coronavirus big birthday parties are canceled, but parents are sharing their ideas for at-home celebrations while we practice social distancing. why cleaning and organizing is so therapeutic when we're stressed the coronavirus news isn’t the only thing that makes anxiety-induced cleaning such a soothing ritual. how to make coronavirus face masks, and how effective they are diy tutorials to sew homemade masks that protect against covid-19, whether you're wearing a mask yourself or donating to hospitals. we'd power walk to this adidas sale where almost everything is 30% off working from home? working out at home? now's your chance to get loungewear and sneakers for 30% off at adidas. the apocalyptic movie '2012' is popular on netflix right now the coronavirus appears to be affecting what netflix subscribers watch. the coronavirus is shaping netflix viewing habits netflix subscribers apparently want pandemic shows. bored? take a stab at these beginner embroidery kits. perhaps it’s time to incorporate a more hands-on activity into your stay-home routine. the view from seattle, which is a week ahead of the rest of us on coronavirus here’s how working families are coping with having to do it all. the best shows to watch on netflix in march 2020 a new "feel good" netflix comedy and a ridiculous docu-series debut. the best movies to watch on netflix in march 2020 spend your self-isolation time by watching the two academy award-winning movies that joined netflix this week. 27 comfort shows to watch during the coronavirus pass your coronavirus-induced alone time by streaming shows on netflix, amazon prime, hulu and elsewhere. you can experience these free events and attractions from home while social distancing during the coronavirus pandemic, enjoy virtual concerts, workout classes, broadway shows and more. the best finds for a night in now that anthropologie’s offering 25% off everything put on your pajamas, slide into your slippers and bundle up in a blanket: anthropologie's offering 25% off everything. 20 low-effort closet organization finds for all your small-space problems you won't have to sacrifice space in your closet anymore — these finds will have you organized in no time. see more follow us! icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. newsletter sign up an essential daily guide to achieving the good life subscribe to our lifestyle email. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. huffpost offers save online with coupons and promo codes from these featured retailers. barnes and noble target walmart ashley furniture home depot petsmart nordstrom lowes bed bath & beyond overstock newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost home & living. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.