template docs commerce apis tools get started template docs commerce apis tools get started build anything the squarespace developer platform enables developers to create fully custom sites and integrate with 3rd party tools. start with a template, or build your site from scratch. get started sign up for our full-featured products api beta → web platform access the template files behind your squarespace website. edit markup, styles, and scripts using the tools you prefer to create a custom squarespace-hosted template or website. get started tools & modules we've developed a suite of tools and components to make your life as a squarespace developer easier. offerings include a local development server, toolbelt, core javascript api, and more. view list used by world-renowned brands. some of the top brands, artists, and creative agencies in the world trust the squarespace developer platform to run their websites. squarespace customer - instrument squarespace customer - sia squarespace customer - lyft focus on building your site. we'll take care of the rest. build your site using the tools we use to create squarespace templates. with the squarespace developer platform, your site will be backed by the same infrastructure that powers millions of squarespace websites. full code control change anything from the doctype to the footer. with developer mode enabled, you have access to all the template files that make up your squarespace website. local development use the squarespace development server to develop your site locally while working with your preferred native build tools. git built-in all squarespace template repositories are exposed via git automatically, so you can work with a team and easily roll back. json data store query any page as json to access your site's data in a structured way. your website content is an api. json-template our familiar template language has very few language constructs to learn, yet offers the power and expressiveness needed to implement any design. infrastructure whether you have 10 or 10,000 visitors a day, your site will remain online. we host squarespace.com on the same servers, so we're in this together. content delivery network our built-in cdn reduces load times using geographically distributed servers. your assets will be delivered quickly to any place on earth. site manager manage your client's content using the same robust backend that powers millions of sites on our consumer platform. squarespace main site careers developers home tools & modules developer terms of use documentation get started template docs commerce apis community circle specialists answers follow engineering blog github npm