amnesty international uk amnesty international uk amnesty international uk login search menu home who we are what we do get involved home who we are what we do get involved donate log in donate accessibility this site uses cookies to help improve your online experience. find out more coronavirus: the effect on human rights coronavirus: the effect on human rights coronavirus: the effect on human rights the covid-19 pandemic is a human rights crisis in the most immediate sense – a reminder of our common humanity, and that we are all equal in dignity and human rights. the uk government has a duty to protect our health and wellbeing. it can only fulfil its obligations if it puts human rights at the centre of its response. in the next days and weeks, we will analyse developments from a human rights perspective and publish updates. and as we do this, we will continue to scrutinise actions of governments here and elsewhere in the world. read more amnesty international uk the covid-19 pandemic is a human rights crisis in the most immediate sense – a reminder of our common humanity, and that we are all equal in dignity and human rights. the uk government has a duty to protect our health and wellbeing. it can only fulfil its obligations if it puts human rights at the centre of its response. in the next days and weeks, we will analyse developments from a human rights perspective and publish updates. and as we do this, we will continue to scrutinise actions of governments here and elsewhere in the world. read more we are ordinary people from across the world standing up for humanity and human rights. learn about what we do support us i would like to help today and donate every month just once £ donate please enter an amount (£1.00 to £100,000.00) £ donate please enter an amount (£1.00 to £100,000.00) join our email list sign up donate now / unite and fight for humanity. free nasrin sotoudeh / sentenced to 38 years and 148 lashes for her work defending women’s rights. 6 things you can do / while staying home during the coronavirus pandemic urgent actions / small actions with a big difference. sign up to the network amnesty shop / you can say so much more with a gift from amnesty local groups / find a local group near you death by coronavirus / the latest fate awaiting syrians make a will month / leaving a legacy to help change the future for the better northern ireland / abortion regulations fail to protect women during covid-19 crisis join our email list sign up follow us facebook twitter instagram youtube google+ follow us facebook twitter instagram youtube google+ amnesty international amnesty international about this site terms and conditions cookies statement privacy notice community rules get in touch contact us work for amnesty quick links urgent actions governance media centre education and training safeguarding other resources amnesty international © amnesty international uk 2019. amnesty international uk section charitable trust. a company limited by guarantee registered in england and wales (03139939) and a charity registered in england and wales (1051681) and scotland (sc039534). amnesty international united kingdom section. a company limited by guarantee registered in england and wales (01735872). registered office 17-25 new inn yard london ec2a 3ea. © amnesty international uk 2017