about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ honey butter cornbread 24 comments jump to recipe got some cornmeal in the back of your pantry? great, let’s make cornbread! this cornbread recipe is my favorite. it’s made with browned butter, for maximum butter flavor, and it’s naturally sweetened with honey (maple syrup works, too). this cornbread is not exactly traditional. it’s sweetened, like northern cornbread, but it’s made in a skillet, like southern cornbread. i grew up near the border of the two regions, in oklahoma, and all i knew was my mom’s cornbread from the jiffy box. dinner was always more exciting with cornbread on the table. on the cornbread sweetness scale, this one falls somewhere around the middle, near jiffy levels. it’s not dessert-level sweet, nor is it dry. if you prefer sweeter cornbread, be sure to serve yours with honey or jam. this cornbread is golden and fluffy on the inside. i love to make it in my large cast iron skillet—it yields lightly crisp edges and keeps the cornbread warm for a long time. what’s better than warm, freshly made, homemade cornbread? preheat the oven to 375 and let’s get going! if you don’t have a skillet, i’ve got you covered. cornbread serving suggestions since this cornbread is somewhat sweet, i love to serve it with spicy stews or chilis for contrast. homemade vegetarian chili spicy black bean soup pinto posole mexican quinoa stew another option? serve cornbread with crisp, tangy salads. arugula and wild rice salad with zippy lemon dressing fresh black bean salad favorite broccoli salad what are your favorite cornbread accompaniments? cornbread variations i’ll never tire of “basic” skillet cornbread, but here are some fun ways to change it up. add blueberries, chopped cherries or strawberries, or even cranberries. add up to 1 1/2 cups fresh fruit to the batter with the melted butter. you can see how that turns out in my cranberry maple skillet cornbread recipe. or, make it cheesy. stir in 1 cup shredded cheddar cheese or other aged cheese. i added cheese, corn and peppers to my brown butter, honey and jalapeño skillet cornbread recipe. make it extra-savory with fresh corn or peppers. add any of the following to the hot butter and stir it around before proceeding: 1 large corn on the cob, shucked (or ¾ cup defrosted frozen corn kernels), and/or 1 finely chopped red or orange bell pepper, and/or 2 medium jalapeños, ribs removed and finely chopped. make cornbread muffins. i haven’t tried this one, but i’m confident it will work. once the butter is mixed into the batter, fill each of 12 muffin cups no more than two-thirds full (you may have enough for more than 12 muffins). bake at 350 until the bread is brown around the edge, springy to the touch, and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean with just a few crumbs. i’d start checking them around 15 minutes. cornbread skillet notes this section contains affiliate links, which means that i’ll earn a small commission if you purchase through these links (at no cost to you). i baked my cornbread in my 12″ lodge cast iron skillet, which is a workhorse in my kitchen. i love cast iron because it’s non-toxic, retains heat like no other, and with proper care, will last a lifetime or more. fair warning, it’s also very heavy at this size! i like the idea of this 12″ two-handled skillet better than my own (it’s also $10 less, at time of writing). if you don’t have a suitable skillet, try any of the following: 8-inch square baking dish with tall sides 10-inch square baking dish 9 by 13-inch baking dish ideally, follow the instructions and melt the butter in your baking vessel in the oven. the browned butter flavor is really nice, and the hot sides of the baker will help yield crisp edges. if you don’t want to bother with the browned butter step, your cornbread will still turn out really well. just melt the butter in the microwave or in a pot on the stove, and proceed as written. baking times will vary slightly depending on your selection. bake at the temperature specified in the recipe, until the cornbread is brown around the edge, springy to the touch, and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean with just a few crumbs. this could take more or less time depending on the size difference (the 9 by 13-inch option would likely be done sooner than a 12-inch skillet). please let me know how your cornbread turns out in the comments! i love hearing from you. if you’re looking for more simple baking projects, check out these recipes. most are stirred together by hand (no mixer required) and made with basic, wholesome ingredients. print honey butter cornbread author: cookie and kate prep time: 10 minutes cook time: 35 minutes total time: 45 minutes yield: 16 slices 1x category: baked goods method: baked cuisine: american diet: vegetarian ★★★★★ 4.8 from 6 reviews make the best homemade cornbread with this easy recipe! it’s fluffy on the inside, crisp around the edges, and full of delicious honey-butter flavor. recipe yields one large skillet of cornbread (see recipe notes for alternate baking vessel options). scale 1x2x3x ingredients ½ cup (1 stick) unsalted butter 1 ½ cups cornmeal, medium-grind or finer* 1 ½ cups white whole wheat flour, regular whole wheat flour or all-purpose flour 1 ½ teaspoons fine sea salt 2 teaspoons baking powder ½ teaspoon baking soda 3 large eggs, at room temperature** ⅔ cup honey or maple syrup 1 ½ cups milk of choice (regular cow’s milk, almond or oat milk, etc.), at room temperature optional serving suggestions: additional butter, honey or jam instructions preheat the oven to 375 degrees fahrenheit. place the butter in a large (12-inch) cast iron skillet and place the skillet in the oven to melt the butter, about 5 to 13 minutes (keep an extra eye on it as time goes on—we want it to get bubbly and lightly browned, but not burnt). meanwhile, in a large bowl, combine the cornmeal, flour, salt, baking powder and baking soda. stir to combine, and set aside. in a medium bowl, whisk together the eggs and honey until fully blended. add the milk and whisk until evenly combined. pour the liquid into the dry mixture, and stir just until moistened through (we’ll stir it more soon). when the butter is melted and golden, use oven mitts (the skillet is crazy hot!) to remove the skillet from the oven, and give it a gentle swirl to lightly coat about an inch up the sides. pour the melted butter into the batter and stir just until incorporated. return the skillet to the oven and bake until the bread is brown around the edge, springy to the touch, and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean with just a few crumbs, 25 to 30 minutes. carefully (with oven mitts), place the skillet on a cooling rack. let it cool for at least 5 minutes before slicing and serving—perhaps with extra butter, honey or jam on the side. this cornbread will keep at room temperature in a sealed container for up to 3 days, or up to a week in the refrigerator. you can also freeze it for up to 3 months. gently reheat before serving. notes recipe adapted from keys to the kitchen by aida mollenkamp, one of my favorite cookbooks. *cornmeal suggestions: i used braggadocio “popcorn cornmeal” for the batch shown here and loved it (bought it at whole foods in kansas city). i’ve also successfully used bob’s red mill’s medium-grind cornmeal with success—since it is not ground as finely as the other, you’ll notice a bit more texture in the end product (“rustic” and very good). stone-ground varieties, like the two mentioned here, will offer a bit more nutritive value than more refined options. **temperature note: if you, like me, always forget to pull ingredients out of the fridge in advance, just place the eggs in a bowl of warm water while you melt the butter. you can very briefly warm the milk in the microwave to raise its temperature. baking vessel options: instead of a cast iron skillet, you can bake this cornbread in an 8-inch square baking dish with tall sides, or a 10-inch square baking dish, or a 9 by 13-inch baking dish. i believe you could also turn this bread into muffins by dividing the batter between a 12-cup muffin tin (i have not tried to be sure). for any of these variations, bake at the temperature specified above, until the cornbread achieves the visual cues provided, which could take more or less time depending on the size difference (muffins would be done much faster; the 9 by 13-inch option would likely be done a little sooner). make it gluten free: i believe that a one-for-one gluten-free baking blend should work pretty well. please report back in the comments if you give it a try. change it up: lots of options here. for cheesy cornbread, stir in ½ to 1 cup shredded jack or cheddar cheese. for more fresh/savory cornbread, add any of the following to the hot butter and stir it around before proceeding: 1 large corn on the cob, shucked (or ¾ cup defrosted frozen corn kernels), and/or 1 finely chopped red or orange bell pepper, and/or 2 medium jalapeños, ribs removed and finely chopped. or, add up to 1 ½ cups fresh blueberries, roughly chopped cherries, or whole fresh cranberries. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes quick molasses bread // notes on baking with natural sweeteners cranberry-maple skillet cornbread brown butter, honey and jalapeño skillet cornbread share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories baked goods, budget friendly, christmas, fall, naturally sweetened, nut free, recipes, side dishes, snacks, soy free, spring, super bowl, thanksgiving, tomato free, winter ▸ ingredients cornmeal, honey ↢ newer food storage tips (make your food last longer) older ↣ 20 diy pantry recipes (make your own marinara sauce & more) by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) hayley march 24, 2020 i have a great cornbread recipe already, but it’s made with white sugar, and i’m trying to cut back on my refined sugar intake as i find it makes me tired. i can’t wait to try this one, kate! i clicked on the recipe as soon as i saw it in my email :) reply kate march 26, 2020 i can’t wait for you to try it! let me know what you think, hayley. reply lyn march 24, 2020 step 4: after butter is incorporated is batter added to skillet, as is ,with just coating of fat from swirling? then skillet is placedbach in oven? ty. reply kate march 26, 2020 step 4: pour the melted butter into the batter and stir just until incorporated. return the skillet to the oven and bake, etc. i’m not sure what you are asking? in step one, you melt butter into the skillet and then when you take it out, you have it coat the sides (last part step 3). let me know if this helps! :) reply tiffany stone march 24, 2020 what kind of skillet is this. wher can i order it? reply kate march 25, 2020 hey tiffany! it’s a 12-inch lodge cast iron skillet. i’ve just added an equipment section to the post with links. hope it’s helpful! reply jess march 24, 2020 i just put this in the oven! i didn’t have enough butter, so i used two tablespoons of coconut oil. do you think the two will mix okay?? (i mean i guess i’ll find out). the recipe was easy to follow. however, because i don’t have a cast-iron pan, it didn’t really make sense to heat the butter/oil in the oven. next time, i’d just melt in the microwave and skip that step. i’m wondering if this will be too sweet… excited to taste it! i love cornbread!! ★★★★ reply kate march 25, 2020 hey jess! how did your cornbread turn out? coconut oil to make up the difference sounds like a good idea to me! reply alexis march 24, 2020 i literally just made this along with some vegan spaghetti. i happened to be looking for a recipe when i got the notification. i didn’t have unsalted butter, so i substituted with extra virgin olive oil. it was delicious, but i’m sure it would be even tastier with butter. ★★★★★ reply kate march 25, 2020 awesome! thank you, alexis. happy to hear it worked well with olive oil. reply laura march 24, 2020 hi kate, this looks delicious! i’m wondering if you think this would work in loaf pans. can’t wait! reply kate march 25, 2020 hey laura! great idea—i hadn’t thought of loaf pans, but yes, i think they would work! you will likely want to split the batter between two loaf pans. please report back if you try it. reply jill dumaresq march 24, 2020 i was making mexican quinoa stew for supper when the cornbread recipe arrived in my inbox. i made it with whole wheat flour, salted butter and local honey. it was excellent! definitely a repeater. thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate march 26, 2020 that sounds like a delicious combination, jill! thanks for your comment and review. reply michelle march 25, 2020 i made this recipe as muffins and it turned out fantastic! so delicious! thank you! :) reply kate march 26, 2020 that’s great to hear! thank you for your comment, michelle. reply tammy march 25, 2020 this was delicious! i was making north african bean soup for dinner and thought cornbread would go well with it. i used my lodge skillet and it came out beautifully. i really like that the cornbread wasn’t super sweet and didn’t use sugar. since we had only a small amount of local honey on hand, i used local maple syrup and it was perfect. thank you for this recipe — it’s a keeper. ★★★★★ reply kate march 26, 2020 hooray! i’m excited you loved it, tammy. reply michelle march 25, 2020 made this recipe today with my kids. i added frozen corn as suggested and it was delicious! my picky 4 year old who never eats corn loved it. we also shared it with our preschool teachers who were doing drive-by visits. i had mine with your vegetable soup recipe which i make often. thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate march 26, 2020 you’re welcome, michelle! i love when picky eaters find something they like. i was one as a kid too, believe it or not! i appreciate your review. reply carolyn march 26, 2020 kate, love your recipes! can i use almond flour? reply kate march 26, 2020 hi carolyn, i don’t think almond flour would work as almond flour doesn’t typically work as a 1:1 replacement. reply sherrie march 26, 2020 great recipe! i used bob’s red mill gf 1:1 apf as substitute for regular flour. i used buttermilk as my liquid. i also added 1cup of sharp cheddar, per your recommendation. i baked in oven using a small cast iron dutch oven (didn’t have a cast iron skillet). my bake time was about 35-40 minutes until my toothpick came out clean, maybe because of my gf flour. either way, this turned out fantastic. perfect amount of sweetness. the crispy outer edge really adds to this as well. ★★★★★ reply jess march 26, 2020 hi kate, it worked just fine, thanks! i will say that this cornbread isn’t what i think of in terms of texture. (it could be the coconut oil or my medium-textured cornmeal). still good and not too sweet at all! i was worried about that. i appreciate how easy this was. i would, however, appreciate an extra step of directions for melting the butter separately if you aren’t using a cast iron pan. just my two cents! the part about mixing the butter back in was confusing at first, but then i got it. not hard at all. :) reply hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}