live chat 24/7/365 support toll free: customer login | support | affiliates toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. web hosting website builder wordpress hosting vps dedicated domains pricing support affiliates need help? call us! customer login toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. menu sign into hostgator portal sign into website builder give us a ring at (866) 96-gator hosting shared hosting easy, affordable and awesome. website builder all you gotta do is drag and drop. wordpress hosting their flexibility + our amazing hosting. compare all features pro hosting dedicated hosting the best in both power and performance. vps hosting complete control without the expense. reseller hosting work for a boss you trust: you. compare all features domains register domains claim your perfect name. transfer domains bring your name over to our game. what's a domain name? support live chat have a question? we're here 24/7/365 call us give us a ring at (866) 96-gator knowledge base know what the pros know. commonly asked questions how do i purchase an ssl and what type is it? how do i point my domain to hostgator? hostgator website transfers? affiliates become an affiliate call 24/7/365 at (866) 96-gator sign in → portal head to the customer dashboard. website builder go right into the builder live chat → gator website builder— the first step to starting your business hostgator's drag and drop website builder is designed to be easy, ecommerce-friendly, and perfect for your new business. starter perfect plan for getting started now 50% off! starting at $3.84/mo* buy now! free hosting domain name included drag and drop builder customizable templates website analytics free ssl certificate 24/7/365 support premium increase your site traffic now 50% off! starting at $5.99/mo* buy now! everything in starter, plus: priority support ecommerce do more, and sell products now 50% off! starting at $9.22/mo* buy now! everything in premium, plus: ecommerce functionality editor templates features compare plans faqs find out why gator website builder is right for you drag, drop, and publish. it really is that simple. seasoned pros and novice users alike will be amazed at how quickly and easily a new website can be built and launched with this powerful, yet simple website builder. drag and drop your way into online success. start your site for $3.84/month* get started mobile-friendly templates for every kind of website. fully-customizable and guaranteed to look beautiful on any device, we've got the right website template to bring your idea to life. ecommerce blog business portfolio technology start your site for $3.84/mo* get started more tools to help you do more. analytics, social, and productivity. easy-to-understand analytics ensure you're able to see at a glance exactly how well your website is performing with all gator website builder accounts. simple social media tools allow you to add live feeds from instagram, twitter, and facebook in order to stay engaged. you can add g suite productivity tools to your domain, enabling gmail, docs, slides, and more. get the best tools for $3.84/mo* buy now! we're here for you 24/7/365. (366 on leap years.) our support staff is available to assist via telephone, livechat, or email with anything related to your gator website builder account. additionally, priority support is included with both the premium and ecommerce plans, allowing even faster access to support by jumping the line. it's like a fast pass for your website! get priority support for $5.99/mo* buy now! want to sell online? setting up shop is easy. with the ecommerce plan, you can simply select an ecommerce template to be able to manage inventory, create coupons, and much more. start your store for $9.22/mo* buy now! compare to find the perfect plan for you! starter starting at $3.84/mo* buy now! premium starting at $5.99/mo* buy now! ecommerce starting at $9.22/mo* buy now! pages unlimited unlimited unlimited storage unmetered unmetered unmetered bandwidth unmetered unmetered unmetered free domain name registration 12 month term 12 month term 12 month term ad vouchers $200 $200 $200 analytics ssl certificate connect existing domains password protection hd video & audio save, view, or restore site history remove ads chat, email, & phone support priority support store/ecommerce inventory management shipping & tax calculator coupons gator website builder faqs what is a website builder? a website builder is a software or tool that allows you to create personal, business, and ecommerce websites without needing to code. the most popular types of website builders are drag and drop website builders that allow you to select a feature and drag it to your webpage. you can have a new website in less than an hour! how does the gator website builder work? gator website builder is one of the best drag-and-drop website builders available on the market. not only does it offer an array of essential features like professional templates, image libraries, and ecommerce tools, but it also includes free hosting and a free domain name during your first term - everything you need to get online! to get your website up and running with gator website builder, simply select one of our pre-built templates and drag and drop the elements you want to live on your website. if you want to have an ecommerce site or online store, gator features built-in shopping cart functionality; simply add the shopping cart and products, and your site is ready to go! why should i use a website builder? a website builder might be the right choice for you or your business if you have limited coding knowledge or limited time. with a website builder, you don't need any special software or prior experience designing a website. it's the perfect solution for anyone looking to affordably and quickly get a website live and get new customers to your business. i already purchased a domain. can i transfer it? yes! if you already have a domain, it's easy to transfer. when you sign up, look for the button that says "already own a domain? connect it here." follow the instructions and your domain will be ready to go quickly. if you don't have a domain yet, don't worry! gator website builder comes with one free domain address during your first term. does gator website builder support mobile website design? gator website builder has more than 200 templates that are professionally designed and available for free. and yes, all of them are mobile design compatible. you don't need to do anything to activate the mobile design. gator does allow you to edit the content in your mobile version without affecting the desktop version. editing content on the mobile version can be handy if you have special mobile-only sales or if you want to optimize the experience people have on their phone. can i add features like a photo gallery to my website? gator website builder comes with a library of high-quality stock photos already pre-loaded into the interface. all of these photos are free to use on your website. they are sorted by category so you can easily search and find what you need for your website. gator website builder also has drag-and-drop functionality to seamlessly add social media feeds such as facebook, instagram, and twitter to your website. to make it even easier, select the my social suite app, our marketing add-on product, to manage multiple social media profiles from your website dashboard. *prices reflect discount on first term, vat not included. start your new website today! get started! hostgator hosting web hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting reseller hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting application hosting windows hosting website builder domains register domains transfer domains manage domains services codeguard web design ppc seo affiliates become an affiliate affiliate portal support customer portal support portal video tutorials network status live chat company about hostgator awards & reviews press & media company blog contact us careers partners do not sell my info global directory sitemap terms of service privacy copyright 2016 hostgator.com llc. all rights reserved. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.