live chat 24/7/365 support toll free: customer login | support | affiliates toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. web hosting website builder wordpress hosting vps dedicated domains pricing support affiliates need help? call us! customer login toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. menu sign into hostgator portal sign into website builder give us a ring at (866) 96-gator hosting shared hosting easy, affordable and awesome. website builder all you gotta do is drag and drop. wordpress hosting their flexibility + our amazing hosting. compare all features pro hosting dedicated hosting the best in both power and performance. vps hosting complete control without the expense. reseller hosting work for a boss you trust: you. compare all features domains register domains claim your perfect name. transfer domains bring your name over to our game. what's a domain name? support live chat have a question? we're here 24/7/365 call us give us a ring at (866) 96-gator knowledge base know what the pros know. commonly asked questions how do i purchase an ssl and what type is it? how do i point my domain to hostgator? hostgator website transfers? affiliates become an affiliate call 24/7/365 at (866) 96-gator sign in → portal head to the customer dashboard. website builder go right into the builder live chat → you can launch a website today this special bundle has everything you need starting at $3/mo*get started now domain name web hosting your website! starting at $3/mo*get started now what's included? everything you need to easily build and launch a website is included. enjoy 24/7/365 live support, automatic weekly data backups, 100s of helpful articles and videos, along with these great account features: domain name your unique online address that visitors will use to view your site. domain theft protection easy dns management auto-renew convenience website hosting a secure, dependable, and powerful online home for your website. free website builder free one-click script installs unlimited email addresses unlimited storage & bandwidth unlimited subdomains free $100 credits for google adwords & yahoo/bing why do i need hosting? this bundle gives you everything you need to set up your website: a domain name and web hosting. you can think of your domain as your street address, and your web hosting as the space you rent to have your business in, and your site files as the items in your office. your web host provides the server where your site files (including blog posts, images, landing pages, and more) live so they can be accessed at yourdomain.com. starting at $3/mo*get started now hostgator global directory sitemap terms of service privacy copyright 2016 hostgator.com llc. all rights reserved. *introductory offer is for one year of web hosting and .com/ .net/ .org/ .info domain registration. after initial one year purchase term, products purchased through this offer will automatically renew at the full price for the same term. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.