wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » deals » hosting » hostgator coupon hostgator coupon hostgator hosts over 8 million domains and is one of the most popular web hosts in the industry. with 1-click wordpress installation, 99.9% up time guarantee, and 24/7 support, it’s a smart choice for every website owner. hostgator has agreed to offer wpbeginner users an exclusive 62% off discount + free domain + free ssl certificate! use our hostgator coupon code below to take advantage of the best hostgator discount and get your hosting for as little as $2.64/month. coupon code wpbeginner (click to copy & open site) last used 8 hours ago reviewed by: syed balkhi rating: how to use the hostgator promo code? wpbeginner’s exclusive hostgator coupon code lets you get 62% off their popular wordpress hosting along with a free domain name and free ssl certificate! this fantastic deal means that you can get hosting for just $2.64/month. all you have to do is follow the instructions below to properly redeem the hostgator coupon code, so you can get the maximum discount on hostgator. first, you’ll need to click our hostgator link to go to their website. this will automatically apply our hostgator discount code. you should see the wpbeginner logo on the left hand side of the screen. this confirms that the coupon code has been added for you. click the ‘start your site now’ button to get started. first, type in the domain name you want. remember, you get your domain name free with our hostgator deal. your domain name is your website’s address on the web (like wpbeginner.com). if you need help choosing one, see our list of the best domain name generators. below that, you can choose your hosting plan (hatchling, baby, or business) and your billing cycle (1, 3, 6, 12, 24, or 36 months). tip: whichever plan you choose, you can get the maximum 62% discount by opting to sign up for 36 months. if you want to pay monthly or annually, though, you’ll still get a great deal. you’ll also need to create a username for your hostgator account, and choose a 4-8 digit pin number for security. scroll down a bit to enter your contact and payment information. you can pay by credit card or through paypal. under ‘enter a discount code’ you should see that the hostgator discount code has already been entered for you. it’ll be automatically applied since you clicked the link from our site. that’s all. go ahead and click ‘checkout now’ at the bottom to complete your purchase. we hope you found our hostgator coupon code to be helpful. at wpbeginner, we work hard to negotiate exclusive discounts for our users. please check out other wordpress coupons and deals here. hostgator discount code faqs not ready to get started with hostgator yet? here are some answers to the most common questions we get about our hostgator coupon code. does hostgator offer a money-back guarantee? yes! hostgator has a generous 45-day money back guarantee, so you can try out their hosting at no risk. this applies to all plans, even the cheapest, and even those taken out using a promo code. what types of hosting plans does hostgator offer? for beginners just starting a blog, we recommend shared hosting, which you can get at just $2.64/month with our hostgator promo code. but hostgator also offers different hosting plans for higher-traffic sites, including cloud hosting, vps hosting, and dedicated servers. all hosting plans include unlimited disk space and bandwidth and unlimited email accounts too. with the hatchling plan, you can only have a single domain name, but if you go for the baby plan, you can have unlimited domains too. when you get use our discount code and go for the best deal by opting to pay for 3 years upfront, the hatching plan is $2.64/month and the baby plan is $3.78/month. does hostgator have good customer support? yes, hostgator is great for beginners because of their top-rated support. their expert support team is available 24/7/365, by phone or live chat, so you can get the answers you need right away. ready to get the best deal on hostgator? click here to get started with our hostgator coupon code today! other amazing deals sendinblue coupon get the best possible deal on sendinblue, a powerful marketing automation toolkit for small businesses. view this deal » wp coupons and deals coupon get 30% off on wp coupons and deals wordpress coupon plugin. view this deal » thirstyaffiliates coupon get 15% off on thirstyaffiliates wordpress affiliate link management plugin. view this deal » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.