youtube creators wanted become hostinger’s youtube ambassador – earn while promoting a service you can trust. join now why partner with hostinger? a high performance service your audience can trust.join now 01. every creator is welcome we welcome all youtube creators, who belive that internet is a basic human right and want to help their audience create a strong and sustainable online presence. 02. we value your partnership you can count on us – we work with each and every one of our partners personally. your success is our success! 03. never work alone once signed up, all partners receive a dedicated account manager that helps with all questions or issues. we have your back every step of the way. 04. a cutting-edge service we focus on high performance, and offer real speed, for any project. our service is powerful, yet super easy to use. users simply love it! how to become an ambassador for hostinger? join the program in three steps 01. sign up fill out the application form and help us get to know you. 02. access affiliate materials get everything you need to promote and learn about hostinger. 03. meet your manager iron out the details with your manager and get sponsored! join now make the choice to do more find out what content creators have to say about us. play_arrow "the best company there is for web hosting" the cherno play_arrow "easy setup, very quick and super affordable" dani play_arrow "fully supported wordpress blogs and sites" forrestknight application form become a partner fill out the application form and help us get to know you.loading... hosting web hosting vps hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting email hosting cms hosting ecommerce hosting free website hosting website builder cheap web hosting buy hosting windows vps minecraft server hosting web design services domains domain checker domain transfer free domain xyz domain cheap ssl certificate buy domain name whois checker domain name search 99 cent domains free ssl certificate information server status affiliate program payment methods wall of love reviews student discount pricing youtube creators our mission is to make life easier for website developers and their customers. we do it by offering easy to use, fast and reliable web hosting services. and more help report abuse knowledge base tutorials blog company about hostinger contact us our technology career legal privacy policy terms of service © 2004-2020 hostinger.com - premium web hosting, cloud, vps & domain registration services. prices are listed without vat close flash sale check 30-days money-back guarantee check free domain check 24/7 customer supportview offer up to 90 % off close flash sale web hosting plans + free domain when you complete your order in ... 02 days 11 hours 16 minutes 56 seconds get my 90 off! up to 90 % off close flash sale check 1-click installer check php 7.4 support check optimized for wordpressview offer up to 90 % off flash sale: web hostingfrom $0.99 /month!get started ×