career at hostinger join us now and let's create a better future togethersee our current openings want to grow with us? at hostinger we overcome challenges by working smartly! we succeed by taking risks, and learning quickly. 400+ people working globally 6 global offices 30,000,000+ users all over the world lithuania brasil united kingdom cyprus singapore indonesia open positions various customer success specialist kaunas learn morearrow_right_alt executive assistant new kaunas learn morearrow_right_alt it recruiter kaunas, vilnius learn morearrow_right_alt customer success specialist (spanish) remote learn morearrow_right_alt marketing ui/ux designer kaunas learn morearrow_right_alt digital marketing assistant kaunas learn morearrow_right_alt online reputation ninja kaunas learn morearrow_right_alt seo specialist kaunas, vilnius learn morearrow_right_alt content writer (remote) philippines learn morearrow_right_alt content writer indonesia learn morearrow_right_alt customer relations specialist new kaunas, vilnius learn morearrow_right_alt technical back-end php developer kaunas learn morearrow_right_alt front-end developer kaunas, vilnius learn morearrow_right_alt system administrator new kaunas learn morearrow_right_alt office facilities manager kaunas learn morearrow_right_alt front-end developer (core product) new kaunas learn morearrow_right_alt finance accountant new kaunas learn morearrow_right_alt finance & legal legal and compliance specialist kaunas learn morearrow_right_alt the way things go @ hostinger our work environment fosters smart working, independent thought, collaborative problem solving, open communication, and lifelong learning. public global experience emoji_people personal growth group ambition driven teams menu_book no corporate bs emoji_events tangible impact emoji_food_beverage good vibes climate let's be social want to check out all the latest news about hostinger? follow us on instagram and facebook the principles we follow these principles are behaviors and skills we value in our fellow colleagues. customer obsession you start with the customer and work backwards. you extensively research and strive to understand our customers better. you work with great effort to earn and keep customer trust. ownership you care deeply about our customers and hostinger‘s success. you are passionate: committed in heart and mind. you make decisions based on the long term. you act on behalf of the entire company, beyond just your own team. you never say “that’s not my job". learn and be curious you constantly learn and always seek to improve yourself. you are curious about new possibilities and act to explore them. it is in your nature to innovate. hire and develop the best you always hire better people than yourself. you keep only highly effective people. leaders develop leaders and take their role in coaching others seriously. you help people to scale within the organization. highest standards you strive for the highest standards, and many may think these standards are excessively high. you inspire others with your thirst for excellence. you are continually raising the bar and drive your team to deliver high quality services. freedom and responsibility you are self-motivated, self-aware, self-disciplined, and self-improving. you don’t wait or want to be told what to do. you love freedom and you definitely deserve it. focus you constantly ask yourself what is the best thing i can do today that will contribute to a long term success. you are good at using data to support your intuition and make decisions. you think strategically, and can articulate what you are, and are not, trying to do. bias toward action speed matters in business. many decisions and actions are reversible and do not need extensive study. you promote action-oriented behavior, rather than discussion based work. courage and candidness you say what you think even if it is uncomfortable. you give each other radically candid feedback and never wait to do so. you make tough decisions without agonizing. you question actions inconsistent with our principles. deliver results you deliver results with the highest quality and in a timely fashion. you recognize and celebrate achievements. our team membersmeet our team hosting web hosting vps hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting email hosting cms hosting ecommerce hosting free website hosting website builder cheap web hosting buy hosting windows vps minecraft server hosting web design services domains domain checker domain transfer free domain xyz domain cheap ssl certificate buy domain name whois checker domain name search 99 cent domains free ssl certificate information server status affiliate program payment methods wall of love reviews student discount pricing youtube creators our mission is to make life easier for website developers and their customers. we do it by offering easy to use, fast and reliable web hosting services. and more help report abuse knowledge base tutorials blog company about hostinger contact us our technology career legal privacy policy terms of service © 2004-2020 hostinger.com - premium web hosting, cloud, vps & domain registration services. prices are listed without vat