flash sale 30-days money-back guarantee free domain 24/7 customer supportview offer up to 90 % off flash sale web hosting plans + free domain when you complete your order in ... 02 days 11 hours 16 minutes 59 seconds get my 90 off! up to 90 % off flash sale 1-click installer php 7.4 support optimized for wordpressview offer up to 90 % off flash sale: web hostingfrom $0.99 /month!get started × wall of love check what our customers have to say georgi damyanov full-stack web developer great functionality for the great price. addon domains are great, but unlimited space makes this option insane - please don't remove it! support helped me solve problems really fast. petar mikulcic business owner first time building website and i'm satisfied that i managed to do it in a few days! first, i used zero builder, later i learned what seo is and started doing it on my wordpress site. belgrade sports timing race timekeepers you're simply good. no bad experience so far, keep it like that. renee koutsis business owner i chose hostinger as it is affordable and reliable. mark user i used shared hosting before, but i outgrew it and was able to set up a vps service which is the best value for money. i had no outages and support is always here to help. mark a. grooves freelance developer i originally selected hostinger for the pricing, but have been impressed by tech support and its answers. we are pleased with hostinger’s reliable servers and up time. "hostinger is rated excellent on trustpilot" oscar wordpress developer i chose hostinger for the price. but i was pleasantly surprised by good customer service. what i like most is how easy it was to activate my account and transfer my domain. andrisoa communications officer we mainly chose hostinger because company does the best for its users and the cost is affordable. amith mudugamuwa mechanical engineer hostinger works perfectly. they helped me purchase domain. i've been using hostinger since my first website and will keep using it. i suggest hostinger for everyone i know! kevin clark web, software & it freelancer i must say that your support is the best of all i have ever contacted. a company that responds to customers in the way you do will definitely get to number one position. cima now entertainment site i chose hostinger because of cheap prices, best speed and helpful support. hostinger is an excellent company. ilya kanatov ui/ux designer i choose hostinger because of the balance between price and authority. and you have a free ssl! i talk with support anytime to solve issue that i can't google. nick yasa graphic designer you offer a good bang for the buck! the support is also a+ and everything is simple and easy to work with for people with vague knowledge of web hosting! anime tech entertainment site i used 000webhost and hostinger was an obvious next step to upgrade to. you have great service and even a more awesome support team. dimitrios kosmidis graphic designer i am new in web design and i learned from a friend that you have a very good customer support. read more reviews thank you for the awesome words! we have so many awesome customers. use the offer and join them now: $ 0 99 /mo get started now hosting web hosting vps hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting email hosting cms hosting ecommerce hosting free website hosting website builder cheap web hosting buy hosting windows vps minecraft server hosting web design services domains domain checker domain transfer free domain xyz domain cheap ssl certificate buy domain name whois checker domain name search 99 cent domains free ssl certificate information server status affiliate program payment methods wall of love reviews student discount pricing youtube creators our mission is to make life easier for website developers and their customers. we do it by offering easy to use, fast and reliable web hosting services. and more help report abuse knowledge base tutorials blog company about hostinger contact us our technology career legal privacy policy terms of service © 2004-2020 hostinger.com - premium web hosting, cloud, vps & domain registration services. prices are listed without vat