flash sale 30-days money-back guarantee free domain 24/7 customer supportview offer up to 90 % off flash sale web hosting plans + free domain when you complete your order in ... 02 days 11 hours 16 minutes 58 seconds get my 90 off! up to 90 % off flash sale 1-click installer php 7.4 support optimized for wordpressview offer up to 90 % off flash sale: web hostingfrom $0.99 /month!get started × hostinger reviews we care about our service quality, speed and support. and so do our users! see reviews left by real hostinger clients. submit review see plans user reviewssubmit your review rating 5 / 5 big fan! <a> 03/02/2020 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review hostinger is cheap, reliable, and all-round excellent! <a> rating 4.8 / 5 kumail hemani 02/07/2020 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review i have been using hostinger since few months now and i am already impressed with their support and high speed servers! my websites with hostinger load faster than other hosting. i would highly recommend hostinger! rating 4.6 / 5 manish shrishti 01/15/2020 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review i loved the way hostinger have kept it's pricing low even with great support and features, hopefully you will continue!! rating 5 / 5 ronacse 12/04/2019 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review amazing bang for the buck. just got 4 years hosting for only $38 usd with free ssl, good speeds, and many more nice features. their hpanel also look amazing. would definitely recommend this. :) rating 5 / 5 kathrine 10/08/2019 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review this is the fifth hosting i tried to use, and i’m pretty sure i will never try another hosting. i don’t care about the designs, the reputation all i care the customer support until i found the support from hostinger. they’re fast and reliable. rating 5 / 5 scottz 09/20/2019 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review i love hostinger customer services. especially sholahuddin, his services really awesome. from the beginning i don't really like this hosting platform, and face a lot of issues . glad to meet sholahuddin, he helps me solved a lot and guide me all the time. not like ai robot, like a human. prefer this kind of customer services. just want to say thanks sholahuddin, you make me fall in love hostinger. rating 5 / 5 eliud aganze 09/05/2019 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review you offer great services with affordable place. rating 5 / 5 marcos ortiz 08/25/2019 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review i want to review tomas jurevicius ! i just had the most amazing experience ever! please read that transcript he guided me through the best plan for me and solved my problem!!! i had lost all my info and he helped me fix everything with patience and customer experiences excellence!! please give this man a leadership position he will roooock you socks off!!! just give him a chance! i promise you won't be disappointed!! i passed form being a customer to being a fan thanks to tomas i will never leave hostinger no matter what issues i have or the price because now i know anything that shows up would be solved in hostinger!!! i feel confident to give you my data and business! thanks thomas and hostinger rating 5 / 5 philip 08/08/2019 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review great service rating 5 / 5 qasim c. 07/21/2019 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review i signed up with hostinger due to the needs of my growing website after staying with a big name for many years. being a small company, i was full of apprehensions that my website will have issues i will not be able to solve and i will be running around vying for some attention of their support team. it was a completely different experience though. i found that the company is professional to the core and each representative acts as if the company has only 1 owner, i.e., themselves, and only 1 customer, i.e., you. regardless of the person and time, each of my problems was solved in a minimum amount of time. not only that, my website speed has visibly increased by easily 4x or 5x -- and that too on a shared account which i got at a 5x cheaper price. rating 4.8 / 5 sarah 07/14/2019 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review i had an issue with my ssl certificate but was helped quickly (within 5 minutes) and my issue was fixed promptly!! the person who i dealt with was friendly and professional! so far i'm loving hostinger! rating 4.8 / 5 levi scott cowan 06/07/2019 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review hello i am the cto of firetech and i absolutely love this service!! there is a sell for .80$ comeon thats amazing rating 4.6 / 5 arav donda 04/12/2019 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review 1.speed : i don't know but hostinger server take lot time to load page from origin 2.feature : hostinger all feature is very good,but i missing one feature reaload full account with delate all old data old backups,inodes,auto installers and after start interface like i purchase new plan to hosting setup interface thank you i really happy with your services rating 5 / 5 kiazio 03/26/2019 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review by far the support of hostinger is the most amazing thing i have ever seen with any hosting company! anytime i've had to do a live chat with them, they usually respond within 1 minute,,, that's amazing! there servers are by far the fastest. their control panel is simply amazing and you couldn't ask for more. all the options they have like the addons, prices, plans, etc... just makes it much much easier for anyone to start a small business with hostinger. i have recommended people to hostinger, and they have indeed bought plans from here, i plan on telling many more people about hostinger! can't wait to be with hostinger for years to come. rating 5 / 5 sectest 02/21/2019 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review sectest rating 5 / 5 skyfp133 12/28/2018 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review very good service and great help center ...low price all packages ... full trusted this on hostinger team...i buy 2 server for 2 years package plan. rating 5 / 5 jerry lombardo 10/22/2018 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review hostinger – free and low cost hosting - evaluation and report ok, i’ve built more than a couple of websites over the last 15 years. i taught myself – learned out of necessity – and early on, often did it operating on my own out of pocket, limited, budgets. through those years, i kept and maintained [through today] two of the many sites; two very simply produced, and easily maintained, websites… so this is no ‘theory’ or armchair reflection. web hosting is a strange animal! i tell you, for sure; (under many circumstances) you can pay $1000 a month or $1.00 a month and find no observable difference (!) [this statement excludes sophisticated, retail, and high traffic sites; i speak of just simple, small business or organization presence, email, blog]. let me back up; as i stated, i’ve had these sites for years… and, of course, i have had to have them ‘hosted’ all those years. i am a man who can really, really, make a ‘shoestring’ budget ...work! so, i have paid little for hosting over the years - with no exceptions. some years i had them hosted fully for free; (a service hostinger offers) but, today, i also point to low cost hosting hostinger offers – which was the best choice for me today. back then, i’d found a great hosting company that i loved – and it was free; for about 5-7 years. then, they did away with free hosting [lots of reasons good companies offer this free hosing]. i’d been with them from early on and they ‘grandfathered’ me in for a very, very, low yearly rate [very nice of them]. i am smart, but can be foolishly assuming at times. in the first months, i’d misunderstood the genuine kindness in pricing and thought the price was monthly… so, i’d almost immediately sought out another free hosting site – at least for one site that was very active. so, i found ‘go daddy’…they grabbed me with an advertisement at a low yearly introductory rate – it was nice until it expired then they got very, very, greedy. i started searching anew – and, waded through a bunch of companies – almost got lured into a bad one … and then came across hostinger! i love the free tools! i love the team! [and, just as important] – i love the price! i wound up signing up for two years which is totally not characteristic of my [i mean really!]; but the price and the support sold me. in fact, i aim to double down and sign up for another two while the price is low. all the free tools are mind boggling – all the bells and whistles – and so simple to use [really]. and, those helpers – support - are not a million miles away – there is ‘chat’ box on every page and if you need help – they are there [almost like being there in person]; so is the president of the hostinger – easily accessible - available to listen or help. good job, … very well done~ thanks, rating 4.8 / 5 aaron lynes 10/15/2018 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review easy to use, cheap and unbeatable support that respond to any queries within minutes. rating 5 / 5 onewhiteweb.com 09/08/2018 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review the hostinger company is very magnificence excellent amazing support and great services. please keep it. rating 5 / 5 sreejith 09/05/2018 evaluation price value reliability speed features support review amazing support and great services. please keep it. read all of them! 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 start saving now! all-in-one web hosting & domain name from $ 0 99 /mo get started now hosting web hosting vps hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting email hosting cms hosting ecommerce hosting free website hosting website builder cheap web hosting buy hosting windows vps minecraft server hosting web design services domains domain checker domain transfer free domain xyz domain cheap ssl certificate buy domain name whois checker domain name search 99 cent domains free ssl certificate information server status affiliate program payment methods wall of love reviews student discount pricing youtube creators our mission is to make life easier for website developers and their customers. we do it by offering easy to use, fast and reliable web hosting services. and more help report abuse knowledge base tutorials blog company about hostinger contact us our technology career legal privacy policy terms of service © 2004-2020 hostinger.com - premium web hosting, cloud, vps & domain registration services. prices are listed without vat