home politics cltv mediabites search this site: search login | register username: * password: * forgot password? remember my login on this computer politics 3/26/20 9:32am read time: 4 minutes comments house members race back after koch servant thomas massie threatens to force roll call vote on stimulus in service of his masters, rep. thomas massie (r-koch) is trying to force representatives to come back to washington, dc in order to have a roll call vote on a measure that passed the senate 96-0. by karoli kuns image from: getty images in service of his masters, rep. thomas massie (r-koch) is trying to force representatives to come back to washington, dc in order to have a roll call vote on a measure that passed the senate 96-0. while the rest of us are hunkering down in our homes, venturing out only for groceries and finding creative ways to connect on zoom and other virtual tools, rep. massie is demanding that representatives fly back to washington, d.c. in order to vote on the stimulus bill in person. why? "if it were just about helping people to get more unemployment (benefits) to get through this calamity that, frankly, the governors have wrought on the people, then i could be for it," massie said in an interview with krc radio earlier this week. "but this is $2 trillion," he continued. "divide $2 trillion by 350 million people — it's almost $6,000 for every man, woman and child. i'm talking about spending. this won't go to the men, women and children. so if you have a family of five, this spending bill represents $30,000 of additional u.s. national debt because there is no plan to pay for it." apparently mr. massie has never had a loved one fall ill and had to deal with the fact that one "spends" what one has to do because it's a life-or-death situation. in this case, the entire nation is at risk of falling ill and a good number are dying. here's what it looks like if governors lift the stay at home orders right now, via the new york times statistical model: "using the settings you chose, the model suggests that 126.5 million people could contract coronavirus across the united states between january and late october, with 37.8 million at the peak on june 5. more than 1.3 million people would die under these conditions and 125 million people would recover." i'm sure massie subscribes to the theory that letting them die to decrease the surplus population is a good thing, since he only cares about controlling women and serving the oligarchs, but the rest of us have a little more compassion. one of the things i like to do when i travel is walk through old graveyards. there's so much history, so many stories to be found there. but nothing is more heartbreaking than seeing the gravestones of entire families wiped out by the h1n1 (called spanish flu) virus in 1918. three generations of one family wiped out within days of each other, children's graves side by side. the ages and the dates tell a sad tale. so when koch servant massie stands up and blames trump's abject failure on governors and wants to force everyone to come back and vote in person, what he is actually saying is simple: die, colleagues, and die quickly, regardless of party affiliation. katie porter and seth moulton are ill and awaiting test results. ben mcadams is positive for the virus and had to be hospitalized, mario diaz-balart is also positive. those are just the ones who disclosed. obviously they won't return to washington, but if he forces those who are not currently ill to return, massie is virtually guaranteeing that half of them could leave d.c. after voting and take the virus back home with them. that's on him. every bit of it. i don't and won't wish this virus on anyone at all, but massie will own any illness his colleagues suffer if he forces a voice vote on something his senate colleagues passed unanimously. get rid of this gun-toting twerp, kentucky. he's bad for your health. update: 8:30 pm aaaaaand, house members are coming back because it looks like the mere threat is enough to make them hop on a plane. democratic and republican leaders are scrambling members of congress back to washington late thursday night because they suddenly believe the $2 trillion economic relief package might not pass by the voice vote planned for friday and could be delayed if at least 216 members don’t show up to vote on the floor. members are now racing to get back to d.c. by friday morning — in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic — because leaders fear at least one member, likely rep. thomas massie, r-ky., will demand a recorded vote. rep. fred upton, r-mich., wrote on twitter thursday evening: “the cares act is historic legislation, which is why i'm driving back to dc to help get this thing over the finish line.” the drive from his kalamazoo-area district is nearly 10 hours back to washington. there's more. read the rest. thomas massie is a giant assh0le and if anyone gets sick, it's on him. tags: 2020 stimulus bill, thomas massie facebook twitter pinterest flipboard email can you help us out? for 16 years we have been exposing washington lies and untangling media deceit. we work 7 days a week, 16 hours a day for our labor of love, but with rising hosting and associated costs, we need your help! could you donate $20 for 2020? please consider a one time or recurring donation of whatever amount you can spare. it will be greatly appreciated and help us continue our mission of exposing the real fake news! donate via: kindest donate via paypal or mail checks to: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 more c&l coverage gop congressman wants reps to pack heat, town halls are scary kentucky house rep thomas massie thinks everyone needs a gun, not just congressmen. jun 18, 2017 by leftofcenter gop rep wants congressmen packing heat at town halls meetings rep. thomas massie (r-tn) made an appearance on fox & friends to push for members of congress to be allowed to conceal carry and paints those protesting at town hall meetings as dangerous. jun 18, 2017 by heather hah, hah! woman urges obama's execution, teabagger congressman laughs when republicans claim the president is lawless, this happens. feb 06, 2014 by karoli kuns hah, hah! woman urges obama's execution, teabagger congressman laughs when republicans claim the president is lawless, this happens. feb 06, 2014 by karoli kuns kentucky rep to air campaign ad in south florida, just so trump will see them rep. thomas massie plans to air ads so that trump will see them when he visits mar-a-lago. feb 01, 2020 by ed scarce rep. matt gaetz goes into self-quarantine after being exposed to the coronavirus florida's gas mask-wearing congressman's week comes full circle, with possible exposure to the coronavirus himself. mar 10, 2020 by ed scarce comments we welcome relevant, respectful comments. any comments that are sexist or in any other way deemed hateful by our staff will be deleted and constitute grounds for a ban from posting on the site. please refer to our terms of service (revised 3/17/2016) for information on our posting policy. latest fox and friends pretends trump is sympathetic to ny's need for ventilators. ainsley earhardt completely re-words dear leader's response to gov. cuomo's plea for 30,000 ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by aliza worthington trump 'doesn't believe' we don't need so many ventilators good to know, stable genius! mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump admits his 'issues' with michigan's woman governor are affecting covid aid what the hell, donald. grow up and do your job. mar 27, 2020 by john amato trump's 'easter' schedule is all about the brunch money of course trump's hotels have a profit center around the after-church easter buffets. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum jimmy kimmel interviews joe biden about the coronavirus crisis "speed matters," biden said about trump's response. mar 27, 2020 by susie madrak view all » latest from cltv governor cuomo's henry v speech: 'we will tell our grandchildren and shed a tear' andrew cuomo speaks to new york national guard troops in a speech that will long be remembered. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum fox & friends revisionist history of trump's denial that new york needs ventilators fox & friends lies about what trump said just the night before with sean hannity about new york's need for ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by heather trump to hannity: 'i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators' "you know, you go to major hospitals, sometimes they have 2 ventilators." says stable genius. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump whines to hannity about governor whitmer of course the strong woman governor is a problem for donald. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum tucker carlson attacks the media for reporting on the dangers of trump promoting untested covid-19 treatments fox's tucker carlson goes after the media for daring to report on trump's dangerous rhetoric promoting experimental coronavirus treatments. mar 27, 2020 by heather visit cltv » stay connected facebook twitter flipboard feeds daily newsletter our daily top picks right to your inbox email name name="b_1b79560977ef0d50a412db2c8_d4904be7bc" tabindex="-1" value=""> staff editor & publisher john amato managing editor karoli kuns associate editors aliza worthington frances langum heather nicole belle susie madrak contributors chris capper li... dale merrill david ed scarce jenn budd newshound ellen red painter webmaster jamie support c&l or by snail mail: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 ©2020 crooks and liars footer about us feeds contact terms of service privacy dmca search this site: search home cltv politics media bites entertainment activism sports tech green business yesteryear misc