start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising productivity smartcut advertising how to break bad habits: i broke 3 bad habits in less than 2 months leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email the cycle of bad habits is what keeps us living small and stops us from reaching our true potential. breaking a bad habit isn’t as hard as it seems; despite being a ceo of a company and raising two children, i still managed to break 3 bad habits i had within 2 months. yes, that’s quitting one habit in less than 21 days. i took steps to eliminate them one at a time. habits such as drinking coke every day, slouching when sitting and not having a consistent exercise routine. so how did i break these habits? i used the control alternate delete method (ctrl alt del). what is this method and why is it so effective? read on to find out how to break bad habits with this unique method. how to break bad habits with the control alternate delete method we all notice on some level what our bad habits are. a lot of the time we choose to ignore the negative ways these impact us. for me, i was sitting most of the day in front of my computer at work in a slouching position. i drank coke every single day in an attempt to stay awake. i put off any kind of exercise regime because i felt that it was better to just relax and have fun after a whole day of work. as a result, i was leading a really unhealthy lifestyle suffering from weight gain and back pain. advertising i needed to make a change. i started to read books about building habits such as the power of habit by charles duhigg, the one thing by gary w. keller and jay papasan, and the now habit by neil fiore. after reading all these books, i’ve come up with my own method to quit bad habits — the ctrl alt del method. i started by focusing on just one bad habit, the first one being the sheer amount of coke i was consuming each day. every day i applied the ctrl alt del method and after two weeks, not only did i stop drinking coke every day (i only drank one can in 2 weeks), but i started the better habit of drinking 8 glasses of water every day instead. after eliminating one bad habit, i moved on to the other two with this same method and a month later i was: hitting the gym twice a week. improving my sitting posture, not only at the office but also at home and everywhere else, improving my back pain. gaining core muscle which improved my back pain as well. losing fat around my waist which went from 36″ (considered obese level) to 32″ (normal level). if i can improve my life using this method, then so can you. using this structure to eliminate your bad habits will increase your success and replace your bad habits with more positive ones. control: master your desire identify your triggers bad habits such as drinking alcohol, smoking and snacking too much trigger the release of dopamine, a feel-good chemical in the brain.[1] although you might not like the end result, they give you a positive outcome in the moment. this is pure psychology. advertising it’s important to identify what is triggering you to continually act out your bad habit. this isn’t always an easy step because our habits have been built up over a long period of time. if you need help in identifying your triggers, here’s a list of common bad habits and their triggers: 13 bad habits you need to quit right away self-reflect to help you work out your triggers, do a bit of self-reflection. ask yourself questions such as: what comfort are you getting from this habit? why do you need comfort? for example, i chose to drink coke because it tasted good and it made me feel good when i was stressed. i slouched only when i sat for too long working on my desk and started to feel tired. i skipped exercises because every day after work i felt i already did enough works and didn’t want to work out. if you choose to eat fast food every night, you’re probably telling yourself you’re too busy to cook. but ask yourself why? what are your priorities? maybe you have a lack of self-worth that means you don’t have the self-love to want to look after your health. perhaps it’s a sign you’re not making enough time for important routines like shopping and creating a healthy meal yourself. maybe you’ve always had a belief that you’re a bad cook. write a diary write down your thoughts and feelings around this bad habit. writing things down forces the brain to think harder.[2] this helps you to find the source to your stress or limiting negative beliefs. advertising alternate: find a replacement find a positive alternative habit once you think you’ve discovered your trigger, try to find a similar but healthy option. this is where i replaced coke with lemon water; slouching with simply taking a walk and stretching my back every hour; and chilling at home after work with workout exercises that i actually found fun. you could decide to walk to the office instead of driving or getting off the bus earlier to walk. you could switch to a healthier breakfast cereal instead of grabbing a sugary snack when you head out of the door. by doing this, you aren’t getting rid of the act altogether like you would if you completely gave something up with nothing to fill that void. this helps your brain accept the improved habit more. create a defence plan everyone has moments of weakness and that want to revert back to the bad habit will rear its ugly head. this is where a plan can help counteract these moments. think of things you can do when the temptations come. for example, if you want to check your phone less, ask your friend or partner to keep it for you or switch it off and read a book. if you’re a starter for an exercise routine, like me, get someone to do it with you to keep you accountable. decide on something you will do once you feel triggered to go back to your old habit. repeating these positive alternative habits consistently will help wire your brain to see them as your normal new habit over time. delete: remove temptations remove stuff that reminds you of the bad habit getting rid of anything that reminds you of your bad habit is essential. for example, i got rid of coke in my office and at home and replaced my usual office chair with an exercise ball. it makes it much easier to stop slipping back in a weak moment. advertising avoid all kinds of temptations in the same vein, avoid places or people that you know will tempt you back into that bad habit. don’t go to the supermarket on an empty stomach to avoid the temptation to buy trashy snacks, don’t drive past that fast food joint but find an alternative route instead, say no more often to the friend you know will get you drunk again this weekend. it’s all about not putting yourself in the situation where you’re in danger of relapsing. conclusion the control alternate delete method uses the right steps you need to overcome your need to indulge in your bad habits. working with your core psychology, emotions and feelings behind your actions is what makes this method effective and easy to apply to all bad habits you have. bad habits are easy to form and making changes can seem difficult but remember that it’s all about consistency and repetition. start using the control alternate delete method today and you can stop a bad habit permanently. what bad habit do you want to put a stop to once and for all? you must set aside time and pick one bad habit to focus on. start using the steps to increase and maintain more positivity in your life moving forward. more resources about changing habits do you really understand what a habit is? how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how long does it take to break a habit? science will tell you 24 best habit tracking apps featured photo credit: picjumbo via picjumbo.com reference [1] ^ truthhawk: why do we have bad habits? [2] ^ agilee & lean life: self-reflection, retrospective and journaling share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how the stages of change model helps to change your habits 24 best habit tracking apps you need in 2020 what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how long does it take to break a habit? science will tell you giving up is not an option! how to not give up and stay motivated why forming a new good habit is easier than breaking a bad one advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.