skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us how much do bloggers make? like, really? [2020 edition] alex nerney updated: 3/16/20 • comments: 33 home » create and go blog » blogging basics » how much do bloggers make? like, really? [2020 edition] disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin300 shares300 professional blogger, huh? you can really make money doing that? and how much are bloggers making in 2020? (isn’t blogging dead?) i can understand if these questions are bouncing around in your brain because they were bouncing around in ours when we started. and we still get asked these questions a lot when we tell people we are professional bloggers. i think that most regular people think of bloggers as people that write on the internet for fun — just a hobby that they do in their spare time. they don’t think of it as a job or that you can make real money blogging. to strangers, blogging sounds like a hobby. to friends and family, it sounds like unemployment. after a whole year of being full-time bloggers and even beginning to travel the world, one of my family members asked lauren and myself when we were quitting the whole blogging thing and “getting a real job.” i could have been offended… but i just chuckled a bit. because she doesn’t really get it. she doesn’t get that being a professional blogger has some seriously insane perks: setting your own schedule and working whenever you want working from wherever you want (we’ve traveled the world while still working!) #digitalnomadlife (lauren’s instagram proves that) control over your income (a chance to scale your income to six or seven figures) it will challenge you and enable you to learn tons of new skills, including how to run and manage your own business. it will make you a better writer, which has been proven to make you a better thinker. table of contents close open how much do bloggers make? how much do bloggers make on average? how much do bloggers make per post? are some blogging niches more profitable than others? how risky is this? do i have any chances of success? you can easily start today and most importantly… it’s fun! it allows you to wake up and work on building something that you love — something that is your own. i’ve run my own private personal training practice, been a bouncer at one of the hottest bars in dallas, tx, and worked at a company that restores black hawk helicopters. and none of those can hold a candle to my career as a professional blogger. right now, i want to address a few questions that you’re probably thinking… how much do bloggers make? well, it varies. some make $0 per month. some make $1,000 or more per month. some make $10,000 or more per month. some have managed to make over $100,000 per month. lauren and i are currently making over $100,000 per month blogging, believe it or not. first, we took our health and wellness blog to six figures per year. then, we took this blog, create and go, to earning seven figures per year. you can see the proof in our blog income reports: pretty crazy, right?? we publish our blogging income never to brag and only to inspire and show you what is possible. it’s not just us! here are some other examples of successful blogs in other niches: smart passive income – pat flynn is currently making well over $100,000 per month. pinch of yum – recipe blog raking in over $50,000 per month making sense of cents – michelle, the founder, is also making over $100,000 per month survival life – this blog makes over $1,000,000 per month *jaw hits the floor* learning herbs – makes a whopping $20,000 per month blogging about herbs for all of you preferred video learners out there, here is a video of how much do bloggers make from our youtube channel below. how much do bloggers make on average? well, folks, that’s kind of like asking: “what do businesses make on average?” most make nothing. some make a little. fewer make a lot. i know, that’s pretty vague, right. but blogging is a business, so it’s a pretty general question. it really depends on a few factors that boil down to how much you’re putting into your blog. just like with any business, a blog’s success depends on how hard you work and what exactly you’re putting into it (i.e. taking the right steps for growth). in the blogging world, these factors are super important and the key to growth and success: how well you communicate with your audience — building an email list is at the foundation of most winning bloggers, but it’s not just about turning readers into subscribers. it’s about turning those subscribers into loyal fans. the level of trust you build with your audience — this trust from your fans is what ultimately leads people to spend money on your products. execution — perhaps the most important part is your ability to continue moving forward and taking action when it is necessary. and the insanely cool part about blogging is you can make great money in almost any niche. hell, the guy from learning herbs teaches you how to use and consume the weeds and in your yard and makes over 20k per month. *mind blown* here is another question that we hear a lot: how much do bloggers make per post? not all posts directly bring in revenue. they can have various purposes, including: selling a product signing up for an email list purely instructional building more trust with your audience there is such a thing as getting paid for a specific blog post though, and it’s called a sponsored post. sponsored posts are posts in which someone pays you to write a specific piece of content and put it on your blog. common examples are product reviews or recommendations. how much you get paid per post depends largely on the size of your audience and the level of engagement the audience has with your content. so, you can have 100,000 visitors to your blog but if you don’t get people commenting on your content or interacting with it much, you probably won’t get paid as much. that being said, bloggers can make from $100 to $25,000 per sponsored post. $25,000 is the highest amount of any blogger i have personally known. for those of you who are instagram influencers, you can make from $50 to $50,000 per post. kim kardashian has even made over $400,000 for a single instagram post. (i know, it hurts my soul to even type that out). which leads me to another question… are some blogging niches more profitable than others? absolutely. generally, blog niches about making an income make more than others because the average market price for the products is higher. this is because people are usually more likely to spend more money when they think they’ll make it back. this includes: making money spending money saving money investing money soooooo, you’re saying i should blog about making money then??? no! this is where a lot of bloggers make a big mistake. you should never blog on a topic that you know nothing about or have any experience in. period. i can’t tell you how many “personal finance” blogs i have seen where people running the blog have no idea what they are talking about. there are thousands of blogs that don’t produce any real money because the owner isn’t a professional, has no real passion for the niche, or isn’t knowledgeable enough on the topic. there are a lot of people blogging about blogging and teaching others how to make money before they’ve ever made any money themselves. pro tip: people can tell when you’re talking out of your ass. your readers, who believe it or not are real people, are going to see right through you. it will show in your writing and your audience won’t be as engaged with your content. it’s much smarter to just start in something you really care about and make it successful along the way. you will also enjoy it so much more! how risky is this? do i have any chances of success? first of all… i think if a personal trainer and a tax accountant can crush a blogging business in a year, i’m sure you can too! again, i’ve seen people succeed in some crazy markets with no prior experience running a blog. but a lot of blogs do fail, of course. here are some of the main reasons why: expecting a ton of results without upfront investment. blogging is not a get rich quick scheme that requires no investment of time or money. if you want your blog to be a business, treat it like one. talking without experience. “talking out of your ass,” really. don’t blog about topics you don’t have existing knowledge and experience in. just don’t. not taking action. a lot of people take some action but then sit around and wait for results. successful blogs are built on trial and error. failure can be a good thing if you learn fast and change course quickly. but you’re in the right place if you want to learn how to take the right steps to build a successful blog! it comes down to just a few things, these being some of the important, in my opinion: great content. if you write really great content that provides a lot of value to your audience, you can’t go wrong. focused strategy. as a blogger, you have to wear a lot of hats and learn a lot of new skills in a lot of different areas. it’s important to stay focused on the right tasks at the right time to grow your blog and be as successful as you can be with it. you can easily start today just to wrap up this lesson on how much bloggers make… i’d like to leave you with a few parting words. i think the focus on content consumption in our society has turned us into a bunch of over-thinkers who take little to no action. we think we know it all without ever actually trying anything. this is my challenge to you: think less, and act more. for some of you, this mean’s starting right now. read now: how to start a blog (step-by-step beginner’s guide) if you enjoyed this article on the topic of how much do bloggers make, please leave us a comment below or feel free to ask us any questions! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin300 shares300 about alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. read this next how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) open this window to get started with bluehost now.start with bluehost nowstart now are you looking for a simple, step-by-step guide to how to start a blog and actually make money from it!? our free guide on this page will show you how to create a blog that is beautiful and functional, all in an easy step-by-step […] keep reading > similar articles blogging basics how to come up with a great blog name in 30 minutes! how much does it really cost to start a blog? (2020 update) 10 popular and profitable blog niches that still work in 2020 what is a blog? blogging & how it works (simple guide) see all blog posts 33 leave a reply 18 comment threads 15 thread replies 0 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 20 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest naveen thank you thank you… i loved your stuff.. every single word made me to take action and to earn like you… hope one day i too make a living like you.. 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago admin alex and lauren i hope to hear your success story in the future 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago guest nidhi hi alex and lauren, i want to start a skincare blog cause i love taking care of my skin and also advising others and also getting out of the rat race and building a 6-figure business. can you tell me the kinds of skills required for a successful blog or make an article about it? thank you for the great info and i learn a lot from you. thank you 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago admin alex and lauren hey nidhi, no special skills required! you just need a desire to get started and the motivation to learn new skills. if you haven’t yet done so, make sure to sign up for the free 5-day blogging bootcamp course located on our homepage. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago guest utkarsh pandey how can i contact you? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago admin alex and lauren hey, utkarsh. you can send an email to [email protected] you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago guest ali afridi i have also started my website and this is because of you …..thank you so much you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago admin alex and lauren you are very welcome! keep us updated on your progress 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago guest ali afridi love this article, this is really inspiring you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago admin alex and lauren thank you very much! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago guest globetrottingwithgail.org good article! i wish i had seen this before starting! (actually, i might not have started my blog after reading this!). it is good to know the whole truth though so you can set realistic goals. my blog is foreign travel. i hate it when i read someone’s travel blog and then at the end find out their “expertise” info, was based on a first time trip! i have traveled for more than 20 years. that is the kind of expertise that i expect from others in whatever field they are pursuing! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago guest ashish vaish i have created a blog in october 2018 only. but my earnings are very much less, not even a $ per day. i wanted to ask do blogs on wordpress earn more than on blogger?? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren in general, any free blog (whether on wordpress or blogger) isn’t going to generate you money as quickly as a paid blog. we discuss the difference between free and paid blogs more in our post, “wordpress.com and wordpress.org for blogs (free vs. self-hosted)”. the biggest difference is that wordpress.org has significantly more options that allow you to monetize your blog compared to wordpress.com. we go into a lot of detail in the article mentioned above. hope this helps! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest janet sanchez wow, this was great info, thank you so much. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren thanks, janet! glad you enjoyed it! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest terry wow, this is inspiring. i like to write and do e-books. this has help me to decide to turn my writing into blogging. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest jasmine how do i promote my blog to gain an audience ? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey jasmine, we recommend using pinterest to drive traffic to your blog because it’s what we have used for both of our blogs. it is a great option for a number of reasons: it provides free traffic (although you can pay for ads); it has a huge potential for viral traffic; it’s users tend to be higher income-earning individuals; it provides steady and consistent traffic over time; and it can be completely automated with a scheduler. you can read more about why we love pinterest in our article called “9 steps to get loads of organic pinterest traffic”. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest erin thanks for the information! it definitely makes sense. i’m a new blogger, so my goals right now are small. i want to soak up as much information as i can and put a lot of great content into my blog before i really start advertising its existence to a lot of people. congrats on your success! i’m hopeful to be there one day as well. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren thanks, erin! i think that’s a great idea! most people get overly focused on getting their blog out there to the world as soon as possible and on what other people think of it. it’s important to stay focused on your content and your direction before you start worrying too much about what others will think. good luck! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest shirley i started my weight loss blog this year and will keep on reading your blog to gain more ideas. thanks. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest henderson when do you start being a blogger? on the first year, you said you earned 100k , that’s great! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren we started our health and wellness blog in september of 2015. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest henderson i’ve read all the blogs and it found out to be interesting !!!! i guarantee that this blog will grow bigger and better you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest alla kruzhkova hello, & thank you sooo much for some valuable information! i have so many ideas for my current website within the blog, but do not know how to run it.. where to start from… you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest aravind great post. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest ines pljakic this is inspiring, alex! but, the most important thing, which you talked about here, is that the idea is just the beginning! dedication and execution of it are crucial! blogging has become a real profession (you should explain that to your aunt 🙂 ) and if it’s taken seriously, there are no limit to success! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren totally agreed there! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest crystal mclain create and go is just what i’ve been looking for! i have the passion and knowledge for my topic(s), but i’ve been lost when trying to navigate monetizing it. thank you so much for your wisdom and virtual hand-holding! you guys are rad! big love, crystal you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren thank you so much, crystal!!! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest deb nixon great information. common sense and encouragement that is crucial. thanks alex for this posting! deb you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren you’re very welcome, deb! thank you for taking the time to share that comment with us! 😉 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents how much do bloggers make? how much do bloggers make on average? how much do bloggers make per post? are some blogging niches more profitable than others? how risky is this? do i have any chances of success? you can easily start today footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz