start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising productivity smartcut advertising last updated on february 11, 2020 how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast read full profile share pin it tweet share email do you take long to solve career or business problems? maybe you believe that you need to know 1000 techniques to solve problems faster. the truth is that there isn’t a single technique that can solve all your problems. but despite this reality, you can still solve most of your problems in an effective way. how? by leveraging sakichi’s 5 whys technique. sakichi used this technique for toyota’s assembly line, but you can apply it to most of your problems.[1] so, stop trying to memorize dozens of techniques and get ready to work smarter! table of contents what is the 5 whys method? how to ask these 5 questions efficiently an example of 5 whys when do 5 whys not work? bottom line more problem solving techniques what is the 5 whys method? with the 5 why’s technique, you have to ask 5 questions. simple, right? whenever you’re facing a problem ask what may have contributed to the current results. then, continue asking 5 times or until you’ve found a root cause. how do you know that this technique works? well, toyota has successfully implemented this technique to improve their assembly line. now imagine what it can do to help you solve common problems.[2] the 5 whys technique isn’t complex but it’ll take time to get used to. if you’re like most, you tend to jump at finding solutions when solving problems. instead, start by asking one question each time you’re facing a problem. it can be for anything minor such as being stuck in traffic. in this case, your first question would be why you didn’t avoid traffic. ask a single question for all your problems, and continue adding more until you ask 5 by default. eventually, you’ll know when to ask the 5 whys and find a root cause to most of your problems. but, you don’t have to always work alone. when you work with unfamiliar topics, work with a team to brainstorms answers. advertising for example, if you’re troubleshooting a bad marketing campaign for your business–work with your marketing team to find a solution. as a business owner, you’ll wear many hats but won’t be able to find a root cause to most of your problems alone. how to ask these 5 questions efficiently before you start asking the 5 why’s, you need to prepare to get the best results. here’s the flow process for solving a real-world problem: 1. get the right resources you don’t know what you don’t know. so, gather information through books and online resources before solving a problem. you’ll find yourself researching more often for topics you’ re not familiar with. if you don’t prepare you’ll limit yourself to an ineffective root cause. you can also surround yourself with people who specialize in certain areas. this way you can work together with your group to find the best root cause of a problem. your goal here is to feel comfortable with the questions you’re working with. avoid answering questions you’re unsure of because you’ll most likely end up with a bad root cause. 2. understand the problem before you solve any problem, it’s important to know which problem you’re solving. this will help you avoid finding an irrelevant root cause. by understanding your problem, you’d also avoid confusion when working with teams. for example, when working in teams, often it’s easy to assume that everyone is working on the same problem. but this isn’t always the case and can cause teams working to solve two different problems. 3. ask your first 5 questions once you’ve spent enough time preparing, ask your first question. instead of giving quick answers–brainstorm which answers will bring the most value. each question depends on its predecessor, so give meaningful answers. advertising the rule of thumb here is to keep asking until you’ve found a potential root cause. typically, 5 questions or less is enough to solve the most common problems. but, don’t limit yourself to 5 questions. instead, keep asking questions until you can’t anymore. 4. find your root cause the main goal for using the 5 why’s framework is to end up with a root cause for the issue you’re experiencing. it’s also used to address high-level issues so that you can track your progress afterward. by addressing high-level issues, you’ll solve problems quicker before addressing the root cause. an example of 5 whys learning about the 5 why’s framework is great but having real-world examples is better. here’s an example you can use as a template for when you’re solving real-world problems: problem: employers haven’t called me back for an interview for the past 3 months question 1: why is my resume not getting noticed by employers? because it’s too generic and not showing any special skills for the roles you’re applying to? question 2: why is my resume too generic? because i want it to appeal to many professions. question 3: why do i want to apply to many professions? because i want to increase my chances of getting hired. question4: why would applying to several professions increase my odds at getting hired? because i wouldn’t limit myself to available job openings at one specific profession. question 5: why would i limit myself to job openings available? because there is a high demand for my profession. in this scenario, you’d stop at question 5 because you’ve found a potential root cause. since there’s a lot of competition for your industry, your resume needs to stand out. who do you think an employer will hire, a jack of all trades or an expert in their profession? whenever you’re working with a problem, take time to brainstorm the best questions. that’s because it’ll impact the quality of the root cause you’ll end up with. advertising when do 5 whys not work? as you’ve seen the 5 whys isn’t complicated, but it takes a lot of effort to execute correctly. when done right, it can help you find the culprit to most of your common problems. the problem is that this technique isn’t suited for every situation. unreplicable results you won’t be able to replicate the same results. think about it, you’re creating your own questions and answering them in a unique way. no one else would be able to replicate your results for the most part. this means that even two teams working in the same environment will come up with 2 separate answers. limited by the knowledge available as mentioned before, gather enough information when solving an unknown problem. the problem is that you won’t always have the best resources available. because of this, you’ll limit yourself to the quality of your answers. if you’re ever facing an unknown topic, try a different problem-solving technique. focusing on a single root cause the main goal behind using the 5 whys is to come up with a single root cause. but all problems don’t always have a single solution. for example, a marketing campaign can have a best, good, and worst case scenario. these limitations don’t make the 5 whys a bad technique to use. instead, they let you know how to use this technique more effectively. the 5 whys works best for improving processes and solving simple problems. but it falls short when working with complex problems. that’s why you’ll need to know other alternatives. for example, a company’s low customer response rate may be due to several factors. in this case, you’d choose a technique that’s better suited to solve complex problems. determine which problems you face the most to know which techniques will help you the most. advertising the good news is that the 5 whys works with most simple problems everyone faces. so, be sure to master this technique before adopting others ones. bottom line imagine conquering issues most people give up on. people would look at you and assume that you know 1000 ways to solve a problem. the truth is not much has changed since you’d struggled with solving problems. but you’re now using a proven system that’s made your life easier. you’re a problem-solving machine. if you don’t believe this can be your reality, you’re wrong. you have what it takes to solve your problems, but you’ll need to practice. start by asking one question today as you face a problem. then, keep doing the same until you’re asking several questions for each of your problems. you won’t master the 5 whys technique overnight. but, with enough practice, this technique will feel more natural. more problem solving techniques 6 effective ways to enhance your problem solving skills causal analysis: effective techniques to problem solving what is creativity? we all have it, and need it featured photo credit: startaê team via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ harvard business review: the unimportance of practically everything [2] ^ harvard business review: the five whys for start-ups share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is creativity? we all have it, and need it 7 incredible techniques to easily solve the root of any problem how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) advertising advertising more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next 5 signs you’re ready for a career change how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) 11 strengths all great leaders have advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.