home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 freelancing how to write copy non-fiction tips by mary jaksch editor's note: one of the most common questions we are asked here at writetodone is how to earn money as a freelance writer. and now the new year is in full swing, the question uppermost in many of our readers minds is: how do i earn money as a freelance writer in 2020? to this end, we've updated one of mary's most popular posts... writing is rewarding. it’s exhilarating, fun, and satisfying. and at times it can be frustrating, right? but can writing reward you financially? can you earn money as a freelance writer in 2020? i don’t mean pin money, like $25 here and there. my question is: can you create a whole life-style through writing? the short answer is ‘yes’, but there are some steps you need to take to achieve this goal. the good news is that there are many different tracks to earning money as a writer. whatever your particular writing talent is you can find a pathway that fits. in a moment, i’ll walk you through the various tracks you can choose. (you can find infographics about the four main tracks down below.) but first, let’s consider the main ingredients of creating an income with writing. quick navigation 1. take the blog track 2. take the freelancer track 3. take the copywriter track 4. take the authorpreneur track what do you need to earn money from writing? 1. adopt this mindset the first important step is to adopt a new mindset. as successful writer sean platt says : “if you want to build a career on writing, you have to treat it like a business.” sean platt it doesn’t matter whether you are a fiction - or non-fiction writer; you still have to treat your writing like a business. i think this is the step where most writers falter. and this is obvious to us editors in the writetodone team. articles about content marketing (which is a factor of regarding your writing as a business) are not nearly as popular as inspirational articles. earning money as a writer means selling something. selling a book, or selling freelance articles, or selling content, or selling related products. you don’t like the word ‘selling’? you’re not alone. however, if you want to make a sustainable career from writing you’ll need to get to grips with selling the stuff you produce. writers don't have to be poor find out how to earn $$$ as a freelance writer right now. find out more here 2. love the learning curve as writers, we need to learn our craft in order to earn an income. whether you write fiction or nonfiction, there are important skills you need to develop in order to succeed. there are many ways to learn. you can learn by trial and error, for example. this is a slow way of acquiring skills. and it can be disheartening. or you can tap into the knowledge and experience of successful writers who have broken through and created a career as a writer. the best way to fast-track success is to join courses and add particular skills to your portfolio. some aspiring writers don’t want to embrace the learning curve which making a living as a writer demands of us. this attitude will most likely result in failure. 3. generate your audience for every writer, there is an audience online. whatever you want to write, there are people who want to read it and people who want to buy what you produce. but how can they find you? you can generate an audience by creating a blog, or an author website, as well as using social media to become known. it takes time, but it works. there are also alternative strategies to build an audience. for example, sean platt and johnny b. truant, two of the most successful indie authors, found that creating a podcast became the tipping point of success because it helped them to build their particular audience. once you’ve built your audience, you can alert them to a new piece of content, or your new book, or a new product. but only if you… 4. build your list of fans building an audience only reaps success if you can reach your fans when you need them. the best way to do this is to build a list of email addresses. you can see in my article about creating author websites how nonfiction, as well as fiction writers build an email list by giving away something for free in return for an email address. the email list enables you convert the influence you’re building into action. after all, you need to sell your content or products to make a living. here is what jon morrow has to say about this: if you can master creating content that generates influence, and then you back up that content with marketing that converts influence into action, you’ll have built a “machine” that prints money for years or even decades into the future." jon morrow which earning track is right for you? 1. take the blog track if you want to take the blog track, check out the infographic below. you can also tap into the following two excellent resources. glen long wrote an article, called the five most realistic ways to make a living as a writer. and jon morrow wrote how to make money blogging 2. take the freelancer track becoming a freelance writer is a quick way to start making money as a writer. here is an excellent article by carol tice: the new freelance writer’s quick-and-simple guide to getting started. check out the infographic below for more tips. from visually. $412 billion opportunity for writers get paid $200+ per post by writing for small businesses. show me how if you want to take the freelancer track, don’t forget that there’s also a lucrative market for articles in print magazines. choose the magazines you enjoy reading and pitch some articles to the editor. it pays to craft your pitch very carefully to show how their readers can benefit from your article. make sure you include links to articles you’ve published online. copywriting is the process of writing promotional materials. copywriters are responsible for the text on brochures, websites, emails, billboards, advertisements, catalogs, and so on. in contrast to content writing, copywriting is all about getting the reader to take action. that action might be to purchase, opt-in, or engage with a service, a product, or a company. 3. take the copywriter track copywriters are some of the most highly paid writers. you can check out how to become a copywriter in this excellent article by neville medhora: how to become a copywriter. also check out this list of 75 resources for writing incredible copy that converts invaluable. take a look at the infographic on copywriting below, created by vertical response. 4. take the authorpreneur track taking the authorpreneur track means becoming an indie author or to go along the conventional route of working with a publishing house. in this part, i'm going to focus on becoming a self-published author. publishing houses consider not only the quality of a manuscript but also the size of the audience a writer has already gathered as subscribers or as fans on social media. they also like to see a novel or nonfiction book do well on kindle before they accept a new writer into their stable. “if you see yourself as the creative director of your books, from concept to completion and beyond, then you’re indie. you don’t approach publishers with a longing for validation: “publish me please.”- orna ross among indie authors, you can find both fiction- and nonfiction writers. check out the excellent guide by steve scott and barrie davenport: 17 steps to earn your first $1,000 with self-publishing take a look at the infographic below which shows the 12 steps of publishing by steve scott and barrie davenport. you can find more excellent resources for aspiring authorpreneurs below the infographic. here are some excellent resources for the authorpreneur track. interview with sean platt (podcast) johnny b. truant answers question (podcast) in-depth resource page about the business of being an author by joanna penn podcasts on self-publishing bestseller checklist earn money as a freelance writer now as you can see in this article, you can earn money as a freelance writer in 2020. and a good one. which track do you think would suit you best? the blog track, the freelance track, the copywriter track, or the authorpreneur track? ideally, you’ll want to stick with one main track. if you jump about from track to track, you may find it challenging to establish a successful career as a writer. i think it’s always a good strategy to work on enhancing the track you are currently on. this is where study comes into play. it pays to read articles and buy courses to upskill so that you can make your track work for you. if you are unhappy with the track you are on, give yourself three months and work as hard as you can to learn and improve things. if there is no movement after three months, you might want to consider trying another track or developing a complementary skill. for example, if you are writing a blog, consider adding a podcast or youtube videos to reach a wider audience. finally, check out the last infographic: credit: on blast blog writers don't have to be poor find out how earn $$$ as a freelance writer right now find out how here tweet67 pin971 share28 1k shares related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane about the author mary jaksch mary jaksch is best known for her exceptional training for writers at writetodone.com and for her cutting-edge book, youthful aging secrets. in her “spare” time, mary is also the brains behind goodlifezen.com, a zen master, a mother, and a 5th degree black belt. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here visualize, organize, and write anything faster and easier than ever before! writer's blocks is simple, powerful writing software that makes your writing faster, easier and smarter. grab the fully-functional free trial of writer's blocks here writing for life workshops master the craft of fiction writing. make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera market your writing qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >