skip to content college info geek how to live a less lonely life (ep. 289) menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills remote view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new remote work, learn, and succeed from the comforts of your own home. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search how to live a less lonely life (ep. 289) martin boehme last updated march 6, 2020 c.i.g. is supported in part by its readers. if you buy through our links, we may earn an affiliate commission. read more here. something i’ve noticed as i’ve continued to age is that i seem to spend a lot less time with other people than i used to. not that i think this is any particular fault of my own — it does tend to happen as people move apart from each other after school to find jobs, start families, and other such shenanigans. this happening is reflected pretty well through this graphic, taken from this tweet for posterity: originally found here. i didn’t much care for this graphic’s bluntness. but i think we can do more to change it if we accept it for being the likely default. so, today, we’re looking for ways to fight this trend. with even just a few habit changes, we might just be able to become social outliers. things mentioned in this episode: this week’s episode is sponsored by: skillshare: with thousands of courses in a wide range of different skills, skillshare can help you take things to the next level. if you’re one of the first 500 to use this link, you can also get started with 2 free months of unlimited learning (including thomas’ new habit-building class!) at skillshare.com/geek. dashlane can help make your online experience safer and more convenient with password management, vpn, form filling and more. head over to dashlane.com/collegeinfogeek for a free 30-day trial, and once you’ve fallen in love you can use the code ‘collegeinfogeek’ for 10% off your subscription. other things we mentioned in this episode: good to great, by james collins how to go from merely good to truly great (ep. 178) if this isn’t nice, what is?, by kurt vonnegut ali abdaal’s video editing with final cut pro x course on skillshare jordy vandeput’s video editing with premiere pro course on skillshare thomas’ productivity course on skillshare thomas’ habit-building course on skillshare meetup (ios | android) listen money matters making friends and connections as an introvert (ep. 47) how to build closer friendships how to meet new people – 6 tips for making more friends the story of starbucks, by john simmons want more cool stuff? you can find all sorts of great tools at my resources page. timestamps: 0:00:40 – how much time you spend with people as you age 0:10:10 – taking steps to being more social 0:15:25 – volunteering 0:23:09 – sponsor: dashlane (managing your passwords) 0:25:15 – sponsor: skillshare (learning new skills) 0:28:42 – going to meetups and making yourself available 0:45:53 – thoughts on family 0:53:07 – trello system for maintaining relationships 0:58:30 – doing scary stuff 1:04:22 – going from small talk to interesting conversations 1:07:20 – regaining that feeling of social ambience 1:21:43 – being alone without being lonely 1:25:49 – conclusion if you enjoyed this episode, subscribe to the podcast on itunes! it’s easy, you’ll get new episodes automatically, and it also helps the show gain exposure 🙂 you can also leave a review! here’s an image for sharing this episode on social media: want to earn better grades? did you find this article useful? over 220,000 awesome students are learning how to dominate their classes, get more done, and land the jobs they want — and you should too. join in, and i'll also send you a free copy of my book on earning better grades! get the book free read these next… the complete, step-by-step guide to creating a successful blog if you want to start a blog, this is your go-to resource. this guide covers choosing a topic, how to set up your blog, and how to make money from it. how to write a networking email that gets a response (with templates) email is the #1 tool for networking in the digital age. this guide explores how to write a networking email that people will read and respond to. popular posts the ultimate guide to building a personal website how to easily stay organized and productive in college how to make an extra $1,000 a month (25 ways that actually work) how to study with intense focus: 6 essential tips more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.