start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising communication productivity motivation success advertising how to celebrate small wins to achieve big goals jenny marchal a passionate writer who loves sharing about positive psychology. read full profile share pin it tweet share email we all want to be successful in our goals and it’s these goals that put meaning into our lives – give us something to strive for and help better ourselves. but have you ever tried to reach a big goal with giving up as the end? have you started working towards your goal but over time felt that it’s just too high a mountain to climb – how are you ever going to reach the top? have you ever experienced the feeling that you’ve spent so long trying to achieve your goal but felt you’ve got nowhere with it? if this is you then you’re not alone. as humans, we are built to naturally see the problems and easily punish ourselves for bad behaviour. poor performances are quickly condemned in our minds and guilt can rise to the surface. our mindsets can bring us down when we feel we’ve failed and this usually results in giving up on dreams and goals. so what is the secret to achieving these goals? successful people make huge achievements all the time so how do they do it? what makes them so different? perspective and mindset many people may put the success of others down to luck or a natural talent that allows them to excel at what they want to achieve. yes, this can be the case but most of the time it is down to a particular mindset and way of looking at their goals as a whole. advertising take thomas edison, the american businessman who invented the lightbulb. it took edison almost 10,000 attempts to create a lightbulb – that’s a huge amount of ‘failures’ before finally finding success. but in response to his repeated failures he said, “i have not failed. i’ve just found 10,000 ways that won’t work.” in other words, he took his failures and turned them into successes because his perspective was focused on achieving rather than failing. it’s quite clear he had a mindset and positive perspective that allowed him to celebrate those small steps and see them as achievements. as i mentioned earlier, it’s very easy for us to put ourselves down for small mistakes and failures. what about our small successes? well the irony of this is that although we easily feel negative about failing, we almost never celebrate our successes either and this is where the magic lies. celebrate small wins the key to success is realising that our big goals aren’t going to happen overnight, in the next week or maybe even the next year but this is okay. we tend to focus on the end goals rather than the small and significant steps we take to get us to that goal. advertising this is why it’s important to acknowledge and celebrate small wins. the problem with not doing this is we end up diminishing our motivation and motivation is what keeps us on the right path and gives us the strength to soldier on to the top of the mountain. demotivation usually comes because we are unsure of how far we are to our goals. we sometimes blindly believe that the goal is still so far away when it could actually be just around the corner – something we will never know if we give up. it’s therefore important to make sure you celebrate your small goals along the way. acknowledging these sparks the reward circuitry of our brains and releases chemicals that gives us the feeling of pride, giving us the feel-good and happiness factor and makes us want to go further towards our next achievement. appreciation is key appreciation can sometimes be played down in life and we tend to forget to appreciate what we’ve done and what we have. appreciating our small wins and the small steps we take can be the difference between failing and succeeding. lack of appreciation and gratefulness can lead us down the slippery slope of not being able to see the importance of our small successes. celebrating the small stuff is us acknowledging that we are well on our way to achievement – in fact we are achieving all the time and it’s a myth that we are only successful once we’ve reached that elusive goal. advertising creating successful habits successful habits equal success. we all know creating and changing habits can be hard as our minds find it difficult to adapt to new routines but acknowledging and celebrating the small wins are how you help yourself establish the habits you need and to keep you going. our brains need reinforcement so allowing yourself to be rewarded will develop an ‘addiction to progress’ that will cause your brain to want to carry on to the next steps. acknowledge the importance of the present moment so what is the secret to a successful habit? it’s all about understanding the importance of the present moment. we tend to take the present moment for granted – it seems insignificant and we believe the little things we do in the moment aren’t changing us. you must invest in the small things over a long period of time and understand that you only have the moment you are in and although these moments seem insignificant when determining whether you succeed or fail at something, it is the combination of moments over time that achieve the big things. for example, say you want to learn a whole new subject. reading 10 pages of a book today on this new subject will not significantly raise your knowledge and maybe not even 10 pages tomorrow and 10 pages the next day. however, it’s the combination of all these moments of reading 10 pages a day that will eventually allow you to fully learn the new subject. in other words, reading those 10 pages a day may seem insignificant in the moment but they are all important in the steps towards achieving your goal. advertising 5 tips on achieving success with all this in mind, it is the small steps we take that need to be acknowledged and appreciated for what they are. motivation is a huge factor of whether or not we succeed and being able to reward ourselves and celebrate small wins is the key. break down large goals into smaller goals – you don’t want to focus on the bigger picture as tempting as that can be. make sure you create small, achievable goals that will allow you to see your progress more clearly. reward yourself with achieving small goals – think about what you enjoy the most and do this each time you complete a step. this cold be anything from treating yourself to your favourite coffee, chocolate or even a trip somewhere. having something to look forward to trains the brain into creating motivation. don’t put pressure on yourself – putting a deadline on your goals can lead to potential feelings of failure. be relaxed with your time limits and this will increase your happiness and motivation. track your progress – writing down or tracking your progress will remind you of how far you’ve come in achieving your goal. sometimes we can give up because we are unaware of how close we are to success and forget how much we’ve done. write down all the small wins – seeing them written down can even be a reward in itself! change your perspective – sometimes when we focus too much on the end goal, it can seem too far away to get to. try thinking of it, not as climbing a huge mountain, but descending one with perhaps a few nice restaurants (rewards) to stop off at and relax on the way down – this way you can visualise getting there a lot easier! featured photo credit: unsplash.com via pexels.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) advertising advertising more by this author jenny marchal a passionate writer who loves sharing about positive psychology. how to be more knowledgeable science says guitar players’ brains are different from others’ success in reaching goals is determined by mindset how to save a bunch of money easily with this simple challenge 11 killer ways to get rid of roaches without harming you advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness more by this author jenny marchal a passionate writer who loves sharing about positive psychology. how to be more knowledgeable science says guitar players’ brains are different from others’ success in reaching goals is determined by mindset how to save a bunch of money easily with this simple challenge 11 killer ways to get rid of roaches without harming you trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.