nerdwallet logo nerdwallet logo log injoin credit cards credit cards best ofbest credit cards of 2020best rewards cardsbest cash back cardsbest travel cardsbest balance transfer cardsbest 0% apr cardsbest student cardsbest cards for bad credit compare cardscompare card offersside-by-side comparisonsget a card recommendationrewards comparison tool0% apr savings toolbalance transfer tool reviewscredit card reviewsrewards programssign-up bonuses read & learncredit cards 101pick the best credit cardboost your approval oddsbalance transfers 101credit card debt studyrange of credit scoreshow to build creditdebt calculatorcredit building community banking banking best ofbest savings accountsbest checking accountsbest bonuses & promotionsbest money market accountsbest cd ratesbest banks compare accountssavings accountschecking accountscd ratesmoney market accountssee all interest rates reviewsmarcus by goldman sachsamerican expressbarclayssee all bank reviews read & learnhow to open a bank accountsavings accounts 101checking accounts 101cds 101overdraft fees 101 investing investing best ofbest brokers for stocksbest brokers for beginnersbest roth ira providersbest ira providersbest robo-advisorsbest for active tradingbest for options trading reviewsmerrill edgetd ameritradeinteractive brokerse*tradewealthfrontbettermentzacks traderobinhood popular toolscompare online brokeragesretirement calculatorroth ira calculator401(k) savings calculatorcalculate my net worthcapital gains tax calculatorfederal tax calculator guideshow to buy stockshow to choose a financial advisoropening a brokerage accounthow much to save for retirementwhat is an ira?roth ira guide401(k) rollover guide mortgages mortgages best ofbest mortgage lenders of 2020best lenders for first-time buyersbest online lendersbest fha lendersbest va lendersbest for low down paymentbest refinance lendersbest low credit lenders comparemortgage ratespreapproval lenderscash-out refinance rates30-year fixed ratesrefinance rates15-year fixed rates5/1 arm ratesfha mortgage rates calculatorsmortgage calculatoramortization calculatorhow much house can i afford?how much down payment?va loan calculatorrefinance calculatorcost of living calculatorcalculators read & learnestimate your home valuefirst-time homebuyer tipshomebuying: what to expectfha loansget the best mortgage raterefinancing your mortgageva home loans loans loans personalpersonal loansbad credit loansdebt consolidation loansconsolidate credit card debtupstartmarcusonemain small businesssmall business loansbad credit business loanssmall business lendershow to start a businesshow to get a business loanbusiness loan calculatormerchant cash advance calculatorsba loans studentrefinance student loansprivate student loanshow to pay for collegecomplete the fafsa student loan repayment plansstudent loan calculatorstudent loan refinance calculator autobest auto loansrefinance auto loanshow to buy a cartotal car cost calculatorlease calculatorcompare new vs used carshould i refinance? insurance insurance autocompare car insurance ratesbest car insurancecheapest car insurancecar insurance reviewscar insurance discountsbest cheap car insurancecompare the big 4 car insurers lifeterm life insurance quotesbest life insurancelife insurance reviewslife insurance calculatorrates for healthy vs. sickterm vs. wholesee all money money managing moneyhow to build a budgetbest budgeting & savings toolsbudget calculatorhow to track expensesshort- vs. long-term goalschoosing a budget systemhow to fix budgeting errorshow to handle debt ways to savehow to save moneytrick yourself into savinghow to cut the cable cordlower your cable billlower your cell phone billsave on electric billshow to save on flights making moneyhow to make moneyhow to find fast cashgovernment free moneymaking money via online surveysreal work-from-home jobs life eventshow to pay for collegecareer guidehow much does a wedding cost?parenting money tipsfinancial guide for movingplanning a vacationtravel smarter with rewardsask the community travel travel travelloyalty programsreward optimizationvacations & trip planning best of best credit cards of 2020 best rewards cards best cash back cards best travel cards best balance transfer cards best 0% apr cards best student cards best cards for bad credit compare cards compare card offers side-by-side comparisons get a card recommendation rewards comparison tool 0% apr savings tool balance transfer tool reviews credit card reviews rewards programs sign-up bonuses read & learn credit cards 101 pick the best credit card boost your approval odds balance transfers 101 credit card debt study range of credit scores how to build credit debt calculator credit building community searchjoin or log in searchjoin advertiser disclosure how your credit card can help you save on travel kimberly palmer march 17, 2020 credit card basics, credit cards, rewards credit cards, travel, travel credit cards at nerdwallet, we strive to help you make financial decisions with confidence. to do this, many or all of the products featured here are from our partners. however, this doesn’t influence our evaluations. our opinions are our own. what if you could subsidize or even completely pay for your vacation through normal, everyday spending that you do anyway? thanks to credit card rewards, that’s exactly what you can do. according to nerdwallet’s 2018 travel credit card study, the average american can earn $901 in rewards during the first year of using a travel credit card, thanks to sign-up bonuses and ongoing rewards, and $277 a year in the second year and beyond. that’s based on the rewards of nine popular travel credit cards and after subtracting the cost of any annual fees. the right travel or rewards credit card for you depends on your spending habits, credit history and the kind of rewards you’re looking for. and a successful rewards strategy requires a little planning. be mindful of fees, interest, timing nerdwallet found that, on average, families are planning to charge $1,019 to their credit cards to cover summer travel costs. a credit card that earns rewards can defray some of those expenses, or help fund a future trip. still, it’s important to balance those rewards against any annual fees your cards might charge. some rewards cards waive their annual fees for the first year; some charge no annual fee at all. avoiding interest charges is also key. rewards credit cards may come with generous points-earning rates, but they also tend to come with high annual percentage rates. if you don’t pay off your balance each month, you risk paying much more in interest than you could possibly earn in rewards. (if you’re carrying a credit card balance that you’re working to pay off, you may be better off looking for a balance transfer card; the ones with the longest introductory 0% apr periods are typically found on cards with low or no rewards.) then there’s the matter of timing. if you’re seeking a new rewards card, consider applying at least five months before you leave on your next trip. that’s enough time to build up rewards points or cash back through everyday spending, as well as to earn and be credited for any available sign-up bonus. if you’re applying for a travel rewards card, then it’s best to apply for it between october and december. bonuses are highest during those fall months, and your rewards can also help you offset holiday travel spending. bear in mind, it often takes a billing cycle or two to receive the reward after you’ve met the requirements for it. if you don’t have five months to spare before your next trip, you can always take the card with you to earn rewards while you’re traveling and use them on a subsequent trip. if you’re traveling overseas, pack a card that doesn’t charge foreign transaction fees. perks and side benefits it’s not solely about rewards. many travel cards also come with additional built-in benefits that can be handy when you’re traveling on a budget, including travel insurance, rental car insurance, free checked bags and ridesharing credits. the free-checked-bag benefit that comes with many airline cards could make up for any annual fee on its own. consider the united℠ explorer card, for example, which has an annual fee of $0 intro for the first year, then $95. the card allows you to check your first bag for free, which typically costs $35 each way. fly two round trips with a checked bag each time, and you’ve already saved more than you pay in the annual fee. read the fine print when you’re applying for a card so you use it to its full advantage. to get the rental car coverage, for example, you have to pay with the eligible card, and you may have to decline the coverage offered by the rental company. don’t forget the freebies some credit cards offer additional benefits to augment travel plans, and some even apply if you’re planning a staycation. if you have a debit or credit card with bank of america®, you can access free admission on the first weekend of every month to over 200 museums around the country through the bank’s “museum on us” program. in new york, for example, participating museums include the the intrepid sea, air & space museum, where adult tickets normally start at $33. some cards offer access to airport lounges, where you often have access to free food and beverages, as well as early ticket access to events. some also offer credits for global entry and tsa precheck. if you have the platinum card® from american express and you book your trip through the fine hotels & resorts program, you’re eligible for a whole host of hotel benefits, including a room upgrade, breakfast for two and late checkout. terms apply. the bottom line for travelers is to squeeze as many benefits out of your credit cards as possible; they can take your vacation up a notch without putting an additional strain on your budget. and if your card isn’t working for you, find one that does before you next pack your bags. this article was written by nerdwallet and was originally published by forbes. about the author kimberly palmer kimberly is a credit card and personal finance expert at nerdwallet. she has been featured on the "today" show and in the new york times. read more twittertwitteremailemail you may also like nerdwallet's best rewards credit cards nerdwallet's best rewards credit cards earn more points and miles with these 6 strategies earn more points and miles with these 6 strategies the 'must-have' credit card for travelers the 'must-have' credit card for travelers best credit card combinations for travel junkies best credit card combinations for travel junkies shop & compare credit cards: rewards cash back balance transfer travel zero percent student business low interest need a break from credit card interest? a 0% intro apr period can give you breathing room of 12 months or more see the best 0% cards find the best credit card the best credit cards of 2020 find your match save money on interest and fees best balance transfer cards best low interest credit cards build or establish credit best credit cards for bad credit best credit cards for fair credit earn rewards best cash back credit cards best travel credit cards learn more about credit cards beginner before you get your first card what is a secured credit card? intermediate how to apply for a credit card so you’ll get approved how can i raise my credit limit? advanced how to transfer your balance in 5 simple steps help someone build credit as an authorized user we want to hear from you and encourage a lively discussion among our users. please help us keep our site clean and safe by following our posting guidelines, and avoid disclosing personal or sensitive information such as bank account or phone numbers. any comments posted under nerdwallet's official account are not reviewed or endorsed by representatives of financial institutions affiliated with the reviewed products, unless explicitly stated otherwise. best-of awardscredit cardsbankinginvestingmortgagesinsuranceloansshoppingutilitiestaxes aboutcompanypresscareersleadershiphelpsecurity nerdwallet compare, inc. nmls id# 1617539 nmls consumer accesslicenses and disclosures california: california finance lender loans arranged pursuant to department of business oversight finance lenders license #60dbo-74812. disclaimer: nerdwallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. this information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. all financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. when evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s terms and conditions. pre-qualified offers are not binding. if you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact transunion® directly. © 2020 nerdwallet, inc. all rights reserved terms of useprivacy policy learn about the app