wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how much does a custom wordpress theme cost? how much does a custom wordpress theme cost? last updated on august 16th, 2017 by editorial staff 296 shares share tweet share pin after writing our article on how much does it cost to build a wordpress site, several readers asked us to expand on the custom website cost section. if you’re wondering how much does a custom wordpress theme cost, then you’re in the right place. in this article, we will share how much does a custom wordpress theme cost as well as few tips on how you can save money and avoid overpaying. what is a custom wordpress theme? a custom wordpress theme has a unique design, layout, and set of features that are made specifically for your business needs. since there are thousands of free and premium wordpress themes available, a custom wordpress theme helps your company / brand stand out. the benefit of getting a custom wordpress theme is that you’re not limited by the constraints of a pre-existing template or layout. you have full freedom to customize your website and get any specific functionality built within your theme. factors that affect the cost of a custom wordpress theme since each custom wordpress theme is built specifically for the individual client, the cost of the project varies based on the requirements. below are some of the factors that will impact the cost of your custom wordpress theme: individual freelancer vs agency to create a custom wordpress theme, you will need someone who can design (designer) and code your theme (developer). depending on your needs, you may be able to find an individual who can do both design and develop the site, but remember it’s hard find a person who’s excellent at both design and code. when you go with a full-service agency, it’s a one-stop shop because they have designers and developers in their team. this is also the reason why sometimes agencies can be more expensive. alternatively, you can hire an individual freelance designer and developer separately and mange the project yourself. experience and expertise design and development is a creative process, so the project cost vary based on expertise, experience in the field, and creativity. well reputed wordpress development agencies may cost more than an individual developer or freelancer. however, a well known wordpress developer can sometimes charge even more than an agency. features, functionality, and expectations adding more features and functionality to your custom theme will increase the development time and cost. normally, clients have higher expectations than their budget allows. high quality work with custom features will take more time and hence it will cost more. change orders and revisions if you change the scope of your custom wordpress theme project in the middle of the process, then this can significantly increase your cost. while minor changes are ok, often freelancers and agencies will charge change-order fees for major change requests. hosting, maintenance and support a custom wordpress theme does not include wordpress hosting, website maintenance or offering support after delivery of the project. some agencies and freelancers might offer these services at an additional cost. how much a custom wordpress theme actually costs? because there are several factors that affect the cost, it is extremely difficult to explain how much a custom wordpress theme cost in fixed numbers. a typical custom wordpress theme for business or personal website theme could cost between $1,500 – $5,000. a custom wordpress theme with additional built-in features or companion plugins can cost anywhere between $6,000 – $10,000. if you have a complex enterprise level project, then is not uncommon for the prices to go above $30,000. how to avoid overpaying for a custom wordpress theme? with over a decade of experience in the wordpress industry, we have few tips that you can use to avoid overpaying for a custom wordpress theme. have a clear scope of the project when you’re building a house, you typically have a list of features that you want such as 4 bedrooms, 3 bathrooms, living room, etc. you need to make a similar list for your website and list down all the things that you would like to have such as: editable home page with a testimonial slider and services list contact page with a contact form and a google map with ability to find directions gallery area to showcase the work blog section with social media share buttons having a detailed list makes it easier for someone to give you an accurate quote. it also helps limit revisions / change-order fees. find live website examples for inspiration when possible going along with a detailed scope, having a list of inspirations really help with the design process. you can have a list of websites and list out what you like about each of them. this gives the designer a clear idea of what you’re looking for thus reduces the revisions and overall cost. use premium plugins vs custom built functionality most reputable wordpress professionals will always choose a premium wordpress plugin vs build it out from scratch because it’s more efficient and saves cost. however as a customer, we always recommend that you also do your research. often the developer that you choose may have other suggestions, and it’s important that you understand why they decide to choose one plugin over another. customize premium themes vs build from scratch one of the ways to significantly reduce cost while still getting a “custom” look and feel is to find an existing theme that has 90% of what you want. while this cheats the custom theme concept, it can significantly reduce the overall cost. powerful drag and drop wordpress page builders like beaverbuilder and divi has given birth to an entirely new industry of “website assemblers”. professional website assemblers use existing wordpress plugins in combination with a drag & drop page builder to build you a custom-looking wordpress site at a much more affordable price. how to find the right developer or agency for a custom wordpress theme due to its ease of use and low barrier of entry, there is a wide-range of people and companies offering custom wordpress theme services. finding a developer or agency with right experience and skill set can be a bit difficult. specially because a lot of “website assemblers” also call themselves developers. here are some places where you can find experienced developers for your custom wordpress theme project. genesis developers – studiopress, creators of the famous genesis theme framework has a developers showcase where you can find experienced wordpress developers to work on your custom theme. wpengine consultants – managed wordpress hosting company, wpengine, also has a dedicated page that lists experienced wordpress developers and agencies. wphired – this is a job board where you can post your wordpress jobs. developers can then apply for the job, and you can discuss your project with them. you’ll have to look for developers with relevant experience and skills. wordpress jobs – another wordpress specific job board where you can post jobs and interview developers. upwork – an online freelancing website where you can post your job and interview developers from all over the world. this would allow you to find developers with lower rates. it is an enormous community with designers and developers of varying skills and expertise. conclusion a custom wordpress theme can make your website stand out with its unique design and custom features. however, not all beginners and small businesses can afford that right away. if you are just starting out, then you can use a premium multipurpose theme and build your website at a fraction of a price. most modern themes have enough customization options that you can use to make them unique. check out our showcase section where we regularly publish collection of themes for different industries and niches however if you can afford a custom wordpress theme, then it is definitely worth the investment. unique branding, custom design, and tailor made functionality will help you grow your business faster and give you an edge over your competitors. we hope this article helped you understand how much does a custom wordpress theme cost and how you can avoid overpaying. you may also want to see our list of most notable big name brands using wordpress. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 296 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to start your own podcast (step by step) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 11 commentsleave a reply mojury says: jun 27, 2019 at 4:24 am i have read your article, it is very great article. thanks! really nice post. thanks for sharing this information. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 27, 2019 at 11:01 am glad you liked our content reply udara lakmal says: aug 25, 2017 at 6:29 am very helpful and informative. great articles. reply said mohamed says: aug 20, 2017 at 4:33 am hi guys i know this comment is not related this post but i wanna know how can i make quick navigation for long post and connect with h tag so when a person click the url it will jump to content place reply wpbeginner support says: aug 20, 2017 at 8:16 am hi said, please see our guide on how to add table of contents in wordpress. reply ruth gower-smith says: aug 17, 2017 at 4:52 am very helpful and informative. we used a small design/build company after seeing some of their work and getting recommendations. i am glad i did because it is a mine field out there. reply renganayagi says: aug 16, 2017 at 9:36 pm premium themes we buy has constant updates. if we build a theme from scratch what about the theme updates and is it necessary to update a custom theme and if yes how to do it?? reply renganayagi says: aug 16, 2017 at 9:34 pm hi, thanks for the informative posts. actually what would be the cost of a custom genesis child theme with e-commerce, membership and forum functionality. what about the services offered in fiverr?? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 17, 2017 at 10:27 pm hi renganayagi, as we mentioned the cost will increase as you add more features to your theme. it also varies based on factors we mentioned above. you can interview developers on any platform including fiverr. however, as a general rule you should always be very careful and do the due diligence before hiring someone. reply john says: aug 16, 2017 at 2:07 pm we always create a custom theme for every site but we base it on the wordpress twentytwelve theme as a child theme. the logic behind this is: wordpress will continue to update twentytwelve to keep it current. that in our opinion creates longevity. its our plan to update to a newer parent theme and we look forward enthusiastically to each new release. unfortunately we haven’t seen anything nearly as functional but we live in hope. reply abdulrazaq olatunji says: aug 16, 2017 at 1:51 pm nice tutorial, very detailed matched to what i actually needed. but i never realised custom theme costs up to that rate. i always put my budget on something not above $500. as a matter of fact, i have had an agreement with an individual developer who promised to accept that range of payment. just wondering if he’s actually going to deliver what i expected. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.