skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us how one mother of two built a six-figure freelance blogging career alex and lauren updated: 12/13/19 • comments: 6 home » create and go blog » make money » how one mother of two built a six-figure freelance blogging career disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin146 shares146 [this is a guest post from holly over at club thrifty on how she built a six-figure freelance blogging career that allowed her and her husband to quit their full-time jobs to spend more time at home with their kids, traveling, and living their dream lives.] when i was a child, i had all kinds of dreams about how i wanted my life to be. i figured i would grow up and find a career i love, have a great house with a picket fence, an adorable husband, and a few precious kids. i dreamed i would spend weekends working in the garden, decorating my home, and spending time with the children i brought into the world. i thought i would have it all! and most of those wishes really did come true — but not in the way that mattered most. you see, up until then, i worked in a mortuary as a director of family services alongside my mortician husband. my spouse is adorable, and one of the most amazing people i have ever met. we had one gorgeous child and one on the way in 2011. i had a nice house that was more than i ever dreamed of, a fenced yard, and two nice cars in the garage. but there was one thing i didn’t have enough of — time. i had everything i had ever dreamed of but i didn’t have time to enjoy it! like most professionals, i worked 40 hours a week and then some. i schlepped my child into daycare every morning, rushed into work by 8:00 a.m., and worked mostly without a break until 5:00 p.m. and sometimes later. by the time i got off work at night, all i could do was throw together a hasty dinner, do bath time with my baby and try to spend some quality time with her, and collapse into bed. table of contents close open so we decided we should try something different… how we grew our blog and income 400% final thoughts due to the fact we worked in the funeral industry, we also worked every second or third weekend along with holidays and evenings sometimes. simply put, it sucked. so we decided we should try something different… in 2011, something happened. my husband came up with a crazy idea and decided we should start a personal finance blog to track our financial progress. we had decided to start budgeting and saving more money anyway, so why not blog about it and have some fun? from there, our website club thrifty was born. it started as a traditional personal finance website where we talked about money, debt repayment, and our goals. we had a lot of fun with it, but we had to learn a lot about blogging as we went along. and while we knew we could make money blogging, there was a huge learning curve in the beginning. almost everything we know about blogging and monetization now came from a google search at first. eventually, one thing led to another and i started writing content for other websites in addition to ours. i would earn $100 for a post here and there, and this income was a great addition to what i was earning at work. however, my freelance writing gigs slowly ramped up within the span of a few months. suddenly, i was earning $2,000 to $3,000 per month freelancing while also working my full-time job. related: blog writing – how to write a post your readers will love this was extremely difficult for me to balance considering i was pregnant and had one child on the way. to make it work, i would do crazy things like get up at 5:00 a.m. to write before work or work nights and weekends while my baby was asleep. it was at this point that my husband and i decided i could quit my full-time job to write full-time and grow our blog. i was only earning around $38,000 per year in my position at the mortuary, after all. plus, having me home would make our lives easier! i could do a little housework during my workday, for example. i could run to the store and buy groceries, and i could even have dinner ready and on the table when my husband came home. to us, this sounded like heaven even though i was losing important workplace benefits like my paid cell phone and matching 401(k) funds. but i didn’t care anymore. i just wanted to live for once. to have time to stop and smell the roses. to stop working weekends. and to stop feeling rushed all the time! i was willing to do anything to make my blogging and freelance dreams come true. how we grew our blog and income 400% i put in my notice at work, and the rest is history. from 2012 to 2015, i continued freelancing and growing our website, clubthrifty.com. our website started gaining some traction and earning ad revenue and i grew my freelance income to the six-figure range. in 2015, in fact, i earned over $200,000 just for writing for other websites — and that’s in addition to the money we earned on our blog. with that kind of internet money rolling in, there was really no reason for my husband to work in his stressful role at the mortuary for $60,000 per year. so, in february of 2015, my husband quit his job to work on our website full-time. for me, this was the dream. my husband and i went from working crazy hours and never having time to enjoy our lives to working at home and at our own pace. we continued sending our kids to daycare so we could truly “work” full-time, however, as a strategic decision. we wanted to grow fast and grow big and not have to worry about caring for our kids while we were at work. these days, my husband is still working on our blog full-time and i’m still helping him and writing for other clients. our website, clubthrifty.com brings in around $30,000 per month in revenue and i usually earn between $17,000 and $25,000 per month freelance writing (average of around $20,000 per month in writing income). most of our blog income comes from affiliate marketing within the personal finance and travel space, but we do earn some income from advertising networks. unlike some bloggers though, we rarely do any sponsored posts since we prefer our income to be passive. disclosure: we are an affiliate for holly’s course below, which means that we may receive a commission if you sign up through our affiliate link. this is at no additional cost to you and helps us continue to offer free content on our site. p.s. we only recommend products and services that we have personally used and continue to stand by! i also created a freelance writing course that brings in some monthly revenue. my course, earn more writing, teaches other writers all the things i didn’t know when i was getting started — things like how to build a portfolio and where to get your first freelance writing jobs. overall, the experience has been very rewarding because i am now able to help other people achieve their freelance writing and blogging dreams. if you’re interested in creating a side hustle while working on your blog, earn more writing will teach you how to get there much faster than the traditional route of blindly google searching! final thoughts once upon a time, i dreamed of a life where i would have everything i wanted and the time to enjoy it. these days, i have all of that and more time and freedom than i thought possible. my family and i travel the world around three months of the year, and i get to take my kids on all kinds of fun adventures. we paid off our primary home this year along with one of the rental properties we own, and we are on our way to retiring early in less than ten years! crazy enough, it all started with a dream my husband had — a dream for a life that was more fulfilling and less stressful than the one we were living. from there, i took a chance to grow a freelance business and blog that would change the course of our lives. the road to get here wasn’t easy, but i wouldn’t change a single thing. author: holly johnson, clubthrifty.com freelancing course: earn more writing facebook | pinterest get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit alex and lauren about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin146 shares146 about alex and lauren about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. read this next how to make money blogging [from $1 to $100,000 per month] 2020 edition we had no idea we’d make $103,457.98 our first year blogging. honestly, that number seems so fake just typing it… like something you’d see in a movie or a dream. and that’s exactly why we created this website… because as crazy as it sounds, this is not a dream. this is a reality for many […] keep reading > similar articles make money google adsense for blogs [7 reasons why these ads suck] in 2020 affiliate marketing for bloggers (how we make over $25,000/month) how to create and sell digital products on your blog 7 real reasons why your blog is not succeeding see all blog posts 6 leave a reply 3 comment threads 3 thread replies 0 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 5 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest michele i have an art website with wix that does very little for me. i want to start a blog to connect, grow, share and show my art and process instead. i want to use a different domain name. please advise. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago author alex and lauren hey michelle, it sounds like you’ll probably just need to start over from scratch since you are on a completely different platform and also want a new domain name. we have an article with all of our recommendations and how to set everything up, titled “how to start a blog”. the best part is it can be done in 30 minutes or less! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest paulo & verônica amazing and very inspiring story of your successful blogging story. keep up with the good work. @alex and lauren, you are bringing amazing “guest posts” that add great value to the community. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago author alex and lauren thanks, guys!! glad you like them! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest michael bishop fantastic success story! thank you for sharing that 🙂 i will definitely be checking out your earn more writing courseasap–writing/teaching is absolutely my strength. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago author alex and lauren it’s a really great course, michael!! can’t recommend it enough! holly is incredibly thorough in the course! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents so we decided we should try something different… how we grew our blog and income 400% final thoughts footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz