wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials » how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 870 shares share tweet share pin do you want to switch from weebly to wordpress? yes it is possible to migrate all of your weebly content to wordpress without hiring a developer or knowing how to code. we built a free weebly to wordpress importer tool that does it all for you. in this article, we will show you how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step). from our experience, most folks don’t choose the best blogging platform when they’re first starting out. instead you are more likely to go with one of the many hosted solutions like weebly because you heard how easy it was and that it was free. once you get more into blogging, and you learn about seo, monetization, customization, etc, then you have that oops moment because you realize that you made the wrong choice. and that’s when you start to panic because you don’t want your hard work to go to waste. don’t worry, it won’t. we have helped hundreds of people switch from weebly to wordpress. no you don’t have to know any code. if you can follow directions and point-and-click, then you can move your weebly site to wordpress. yes, it will take you about an hour to properly migrate from weebly to wordpress, but it’s completely worth it. bonus free offer: since a lot of you asked for this, we are now offering free weebly to wordpress migration service as part of our free wordpress blog setup service. this means one of our expert team member will do the entire migration for you (100% free). yes, you can literally switch from weebly to wordpress without any risk. however if you are someone who likes learning and doing things yourself, then you can follow our step by step tutorial below. ready? let’s get started. weebly to wordpress video tutorial subscribe to wpbeginner if you don’t like video tutorials or want to move at your own pace, then continue reading the instructions below. step 1. getting started to start a wordpress blog, you need two things: a domain name (this is the name of your blog i.e wpbeginner.com) a web hosting account (this is where your website lives on the internet) while wordpress itself is free, both domain and web hosting comes at a cost ($14.99 / year for domain and $7.99 / month for web hosting). thankfully, bluehost, an official wordpress recommended hosting provider has agreed to offer our users a free domain name and over 60% off on web hosting. → click here to claim this exclusive bluehost offer ← if for some reason you want other options, then you can look at our list of the best wordpress hosting companies. once you have setup your domain and hosting, the next step is to install wordpress. we have step by step guide on how to install wordpress. after you’re done installing wordpress, you’re ready to move to the next step which is to move your weebly content to wordpress. step 2. export content from your weebly website in the past, it was way too difficult for users to move from weebly to wordpress because there wasn’t an easy to export data from weebly. we decided to solve this problem and developed a free weebly to wordpress importer. it is a free online tool that imports your content from weebly and converts it into a wordpress compatible import format. it does not make any changes to your existing weebly site, so it is perfectly safe to use. head over to weebly to wordpress importer website and enter your weebly website url. you will be asked to provide your name, email address, and to select an export format. the default option is wxr format, and you should not change that unless you run into an issue later. next, you need to choose whether you want to include pages in your export file. the default option is ‘yes’, and you don’t need to change that either, unless you really don’t want to export weebly pages. after that, you need to click on ‘export my weebly website’ button. weebly to wordpress importer will now fetch content from your weebly website and convert it into a wordpress compatible export file. you will see a button to download your weebly export file. you need to right click on it and select ‘save link as’ from the menu. this will download export.xml file to your computer. step 3. import weebly content into wordpress now that you have your weebly content in a wordpress compatible format, it is time to import it into wordpress. login to your admin area and head over to tools » import page. you will see a list of importers available for different platforms. you need to scroll down to wordpress and then click on the ‘install now’ link. wordpress will now fetch the importer plugin and install it on your wordpress site without reloading the page. once it is installed, you need to click on ‘run importer’ to launch it. this will bring you to the wordpress importer page. go ahead and click on ‘choose file’ button to select the export.xml file you downloaded earlier. next, click on ‘upload file and import’ button to continue. wordpress importer will now upload your export file and analyze it. on the next screen, it will ask you to assign authors. you can import an author from your weebly website, create a new author, or assign all content to your existing wordpress user. don’t forget to check the box next to ‘download and import file attachments’ option. it will fetch images from your weebly website into wordpress media library, so you can use them later. you can now click on the submit button to run the importer. wordpress will now import content from the export file to your wordpress database. it will also try to fetch images linked in your weebly blog posts and pages. upon completion you will see a success message. congratulations, you have successfully imported content from your weebly blog to wordpress. you can now go to posts, pages, and categories in wordpress admin area to see if all your content is there. also check the media library to see the images imported from your weebly site. if the import process fails in the middle, then you can always run it again. the importer is smart enough to detect duplicate content and skip it. it will only import the content that didn’t import successfully in previous attempt. step 4. setting up redirects if you were using a custom domain on your weebly site (like yoursite.com), then you need to point it to your wordpress hosting provider. first you need to login to your weebly account and go to the domains page. click on the domain name that you want to edit and then on domain settings page click on the change button next to nameservers option. on the next screen you need to enter your new wordpress host’s nameservers. for bluehost, these are ns1.bluehost.com and ns2.bluehost.com. click on the save button to store your settings. nameserver changes may take a while to propagate across internet. once the changes take affect visitors will start seeing your wordpress site. if you were using a subdomain url on your weebly site (like http://example.weebly.com), then here is how you would setup redirect. login to your weebly dashboard and edit your website. next, you need to click on settings and then seo tab. now, scroll down to header code option and add this line of code: <meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://www.yourdomain.com/"> replace yourdomain.com with your new wordpress site’s domain name. don’t forget to click on the save and publish buttons to save your changes. you can now visit your weebly website, and it will refresh and redirect to your wordpress website. step 5. setting up permalinks your weebly website may have a different url structure for blog posts and pages. typically it is something like this: for blog posts: http://example.com/blog/your-post-title/ for pages: http://example.com/page-title.html if you were using a custom domain on your weebly site, then users visiting a post on your old weebly blog will see 404 error. here is how you would make sure that users are redirected to correct post. you will need to visit settings » permalinks page. scroll down and select ‘custom structure’ option and then add /blog/%postname% in the text field next to it. don’t forget to click on the save changes button to update your permalinks. now you need to add .html at the end of urls for your wordpress pages. you will need to install and activate the add any extension to pages plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to visit settings » add any extention to pages. simply enter .html in the plugin settings and click on ‘update settings’ button. now you need to visit settings » permalinks page and click on the save changes button to update your permalink structure. step 6. troubleshooting here are a few things that you may need after transferring your site from weebly to wordpress. 1. importing or replacing images wordpress will try to import images from your weebly website to wordpress during the import. however, if your images are not downloaded to media library then you will need to import them. see our guide on how to import external images in wordpress for detailed step by step instructions. 2. fixing errors in wordpress if you are seeing some errors on your wordpress site after the transfer, then head over to our ultimate guide on common wordpress errors and how to fix them. 3. things to do after installing wordpress if everything goes well, you will be now ready to customize your new website and take advantage of the enormous flexibility of wordpress. see our list of important things to do after installing wordpress. that’s all, we hope this article helped you properly move from weebly to wordpress. you may also want to see our list of 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 870 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 216 commentsleave a reply ian dunn says: mar 21, 2020 at 3:41 pm i also got the “could not find any content …” error, but it was because i had a custom domain setup. to get it to work, i had to add a “{site-name}.weebly.com” subdomain, and then enter that address into the tool. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 23, 2020 at 3:56 pm thank you for letting us know about that issue, we’ll be sure to look into possible reasons why it could have happened reply danielle says: jan 26, 2020 at 7:49 pm hello! i’ve been trying to use your plugin to convert my weebly site to wordpress, but it times out every time. what can i do to fix this? i have high speed internet, but i’m wondering if my site is too big…? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 27, 2020 at 11:59 am should our exporter run into this issue, please reach out to us using our contact form and let us know your site url here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/contact/ reply linda says: jan 1, 2020 at 3:03 am hello. i finally took the plunge and transferred my weebly site to wordpress. i put it off because i thought it would be a nightmare and complicated. decided the time was now as my site looked very outdated and was losing ranking. i couldn’t believe how easy it was! i needed to turn off ssl (and then back on again) for it to work. thank you all so much for offering this free service! happy new year and i wish you all the very best. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 2, 2020 at 10:15 am you’re welcome, happy new year to you as well reply misao says: oct 29, 2019 at 7:49 pm hello, the importer is not working. after filling out the fields, it shows wordpress error reply wpbeginner support says: oct 30, 2019 at 9:46 am please reach out to us using our contact form with the site and error you are seeing for us to take a look: https://www.wpbeginner.com/contact/ reply zara says: sep 23, 2019 at 11:29 pm the weebly to wordpress importer. is not working. i’ve tried 3 times. it does not collect any daga. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 24, 2019 at 9:53 am please reach out to us using our contact us page at the bottom of the page to elaborate on your issue. reply kelly says: sep 8, 2019 at 6:20 am hi i am just beginning this process and understand i transfer the nameservers as the final step, but i can’t seem to find on my weebly ‘click on the domain name that you want to edit and then on domain settings page click on the change button next to nameservers option’ i go into the weebly site i want to move over, click on settings and within those no options for nameservers, am i looking in the right place? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 9, 2019 at 9:45 am did you purchase your domain name from another location? that could be why the option is not in weebly reply noelle says: aug 30, 2019 at 6:38 pm hi, i am wanting to transfer my weebly posts to wordpress. i am interested in following this information to transfer my weebly site to wordpress but i am lacking tech and coding skills. if i go through with the import do i then crest more content through weebly or wordpress? does it completely get rid of weebly. i purchased my domain through weebly i believe reply wpbeginner support says: sep 4, 2019 at 9:14 am if you wanted to transfer the site then you would create your new content on the new wordpress site after following the tutorial. this guide will redirect users to your new site using wordpress but you will still have access to the weebly content from your admin end. reply susan says: aug 6, 2019 at 10:51 pm hi, this may be a basic question but i like the look of my website on weebly. does the transfer keep the framework and look of the website? or does it mean i have to find a new wordpress template to display the content. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: aug 7, 2019 at 10:15 am you would need to find a new theme for your site as it does not transfer the look of your site. there are page builder plugins you can use to recreate your current design if you wanted. reply chris says: aug 3, 2019 at 2:20 pm hi, great article. do you have a tool like this but for migrations other than weebly? i built a landing page on a third-party service, but would now like to duplicate it in my wordpress site. it’s just one page. ideas? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 5, 2019 at 11:12 am it would depend on the specific service for what is available. reply chris says: aug 5, 2019 at 12:06 pm it’s on agile crm. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 6, 2019 at 10:15 am sadly, we do not have a recommended exporter at the moment. sakthi says: jun 8, 2019 at 8:19 am i need to import my website which has nearly 400 blog post. your tools is loading and throwing an error at the end as technical difficulties. please, i need the wxr file for all my blog post. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 10, 2019 at 12:12 pm for larger sites please reach out to us using our contact form for us to be able to assist. reply admin says: jun 3, 2019 at 5:12 pm we used your tool to export blog data from weebly and then import into wordpress. it seemed to work fine but with one major exception: the blog titles did not import. do you have advice on a fix? should we try to import again (over existing blog data) or manually enter all the titles to each blog post (about 120 blog posts)? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 4, 2019 at 11:33 am you may want to try recreating the export file to ensure it didn’t have a hiccup and then reimporting. reply bill says: jun 1, 2019 at 1:50 pm so, what if the weebly site is one of the ones that are offered through hostgator and the wordpress i want to use is also on hostgator. will the tool work in that instance? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 3, 2019 at 11:56 am if you’re using the same host then you could set up a staging site to set up the new site while the old site is active: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-create-staging-environment-for-a-wordpress-site/ reply chris says: apr 27, 2019 at 3:47 am i read through the article, and noticed you hadn’t addressed comments. do the comments also get imported, through the weebly default comment box. or is that one of the things the importer doesn’t do? it’s important for me to know, as i recently signed up with weebly and didn’t realise how lame their comments section for blogs were. i’m deciding whether i should use disqus instead of the default – as it seems to have more options, as far as commenting goes. but i wouldn’t switch, if i knew the wp importer, could only import my default comments. if at all??? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 29, 2019 at 12:52 pm the exporter should include your comments on your site, if you wanted to test it you can create a local installation using: https://www.wpbeginner.com/how-to-install-wordpress/#installlocal reply sam morgan says: apr 25, 2019 at 3:30 am hi there. i first want to say that i used this guide successfully to move from weebly to wordpress (after disabling ssl to export weebly data), so thanks! i have a domain related question. i told bluehost that i own my domian ieltstutors.org, though im building my wordpress site on a temp domain given by bluehost. am i right in saying that after i have finish building my wp site, all i need to do is change my weebly nameservers to bluehost? do i then just go to bluehost and press “transfer to bluehost”? is there a way to do this so that the site doesn’t go down? thanks for all your help! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 25, 2019 at 10:40 am when you are ready you would want to change the domain’s nameservers to bluehost and then update your site’s url to the correct domain and use a tool like the one from our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-update-urls-when-moving-your-wordpress-site/ you should also be able to reach out to bluehost to help you update your domain if you wanted. reply kate says: apr 30, 2019 at 7:20 am thank you for leaving your comment! i was struggling to export my weebly site with the weeblytowp application until i turned off ssl. thank you! reply carlos says: apr 21, 2019 at 3:30 pm i’m having issues downloading the wxr version of my weebly site. i’m getting the “could not find any content in your weebly blog to export. did you enter the correct url?” message. am i missing something? it’s a full website i want to migrate, no blog attached to it. could that be the reason i’m getting an error? i’m looking to move a few sites any insight would great. carlos reply wpbeginner support says: apr 22, 2019 at 2:03 pm that message can happen when you attempt to export a very large site but if you run into that error please reach out to us using our contact form for us to take a look reply carlos says: apr 22, 2019 at 4:53 pm will do doing that now i think i came across your contact page somewhere on the thread. thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 23, 2019 at 11:32 am if not in the comments, we have the link in our footer denise says: apr 10, 2019 at 12:03 pm if i already have a weebly site with a domain through bluehost, is switching it to wordpress easier? at one point my website was giving a large error and the site was unaccesible because both weebly and wordpress were trying to work on the website at the same time. we changed to weebly for simplicity, but now i would really like to move us to wordpress so that we have the ability to customize far more than what we have right now. thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 11, 2019 at 10:39 am the difficulty would be due to wanting to install wordpress in the same location as your current site. you can create an installation on your local computer: https://www.wpbeginner.com/how-to-install-wordpress/#installlocal and once you set up your site there, you can overwrite the site on your host using: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-move-wordpress-from-local-server-to-live-site/ reply emilia amaro says: mar 28, 2019 at 11:02 pm hi there! thanks for the informative post! i’m trying to use the weeblytowp for my client’s site but the result keeps saying “there is no content on this website”. i’m confused because there is over 4 years of blog posts i’m trying to transfer over. can you help? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 29, 2019 at 10:41 am more than likely the exporter is having an error due to how much content is on the site. if you reach out using our contact form we should be able to help. reply emilia amaro says: mar 29, 2019 at 11:01 am thanks for the reply! where is your contact form? i’ve tried looking through the site quickly and couldn’t identify it. could you send a link? thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 1, 2019 at 11:10 am a link to our contact page is in our footer or you can use: https://www.wpbeginner.com/contact/ sophie says: mar 12, 2019 at 12:13 am hi there! what if i have bought my domain through weebly and i want to keep this same domain with my new wordpress site? i’m not whether or not to tell bluehost i “have a domain” already or not, because i no longer want to be affiliated with weebly at all, but i want my same domain name and it’s through them. completely lost at how i should go about this. thanks for the help! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 12, 2019 at 10:59 am you would let bluehost know you already have a domain and then you would transfer your domain to bluehost once you are ready reply jenn says: mar 4, 2019 at 2:46 pm is it completely necessary to add the .html for redirects? it is not on the original wix urls. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: mar 5, 2019 at 11:14 am it would be for if you have pages, posts to not end in .html but any pages you had on weebly would need the .html added to prevent errors with redirection. reply jacky says: mar 3, 2019 at 3:28 pm thank you for this great tutorial. when i click on domains, i don’t see the screen edit nameservers. is it because my domain is with godaddy? in that case, would i have to edit that on godaddy? thank you so much! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 4, 2019 at 1:32 pm hi jacky, correct, if you purchased your domain through another registrar such as godaddy then you would need to edit the nameservers through them rather than weebly reply jacky says: mar 8, 2019 at 1:36 pm thank you! i have my blog with weebly using my .com domain. when you say transfer files, does that deactivate the weebly site or is it just just a copy of the files? i mean i want to copy the weebly files to wp, but i want to leave my weebly site live while i build the new wp. once i finish building it, then i’ll move my domain to wp. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 11, 2019 at 11:04 am it creates copies of your content, it does not remove your content alice ford says: feb 12, 2019 at 5:44 pm when i tried to export my site it said it couldn’t find any data. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 13, 2019 at 11:36 am we will certainly take a look for any errors that could be causing this with the exporter. reply jose says: feb 1, 2019 at 4:57 pm how long it takes to transfer and unluck a domain form weebly to another host. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 4, 2019 at 2:07 pm with any domain registrar, you would need to wait 60 days from when it is first purchased. after that, you would need to reach out to weebly for their specifics reply jessica says: jan 7, 2019 at 3:56 pm this did nothing for me. after importing to wordpress, nothing has changed on it. stock site still in effect. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 7, 2019 at 11:53 pm hi jessica, when you are logged into wordpress admin dashboard, can you see your imported content under posts or pages? if you cannot then this mean that importer didn’t run or it didn’t find any content to import. reply carissa says: jan 1, 2019 at 9:29 pm after clicking the ‘export my weebly website’ button, it changes to ‘generating export file’. on the bottom left side of my screen ways it says, ‘waiting for weeblytowp.com’. after a few minutes, i get a message that says ‘504 gateway time-out’. is this because my weebly site is too large? or do you think this could be a technical difficulty? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 2, 2019 at 1:18 am hi carissa, this could be due to a large site. you can try again in a few mins. if it still doesn’t work then try to save some of your weebly content as drafts and then try to export. reply carissa says: jan 2, 2019 at 1:09 pm that’s what i was afraid you were going to say. unfortunately, the bulk of the content are pages which you can’t put into draft mode on weebly (that i’m aware of). do you have a link that i can pay someone to do this for me? i don’t care about making it pretty (i can do that), i just need to download the weebly site. i hope this question makes sense? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 2, 2019 at 2:40 pm while we don’t have a recommended location for hiring for that, you could take a look at some of the recommendations in this article: https://www.wpbeginner.com/showcase/best-places-to-hire-wordpress-developers/ ashley says: dec 5, 2018 at 6:20 am thanks for the guide and tool. i’m trying to export a weebly blog and am getting the ‘no content’ error message. i’ve disabled ssl in the weebly editor which seems to have taken a while to take place, but i am now able to access the site via http only. however still no luck exporting the site. any suggestions would be gratefully received! reply lr says: nov 15, 2018 at 7:46 pm i spoke with weebly today and asked them if it was possible to transfer a site to wp, just in case we wanted to switch down the road….. they said no haha reply rachel says: nov 8, 2018 at 4:13 pm i have a domain that i purchased through weebly, and i have designed a new site with wordpress.org.. and now i can’t figure out how to use my weebly domain for my wordpress site. the weebly people said i need the dns… i don’t know what that is reply wpbeginner support says: nov 12, 2018 at 7:05 am hi rachel, your new host where you are hosting wordpress.org will provide you dns server details. they usually look like this: ns1.yourhost.com ns2.yourhost.com once you know what dns servers are used by your host, you can edit your domain settings in weebly and point it to your new host. reply david mckinney says: oct 7, 2018 at 12:20 am hello, i have been trying to transfer my weebly blog to wordpress. i keep getting the error message “could not find any content in your weebly blog to export. did you enter the correct url?” i have retried the transfer at least 100 times in the past day and a half. still no luck. any suggestions? reply wpbeginner support says: oct 8, 2018 at 9:59 pm hi david, we are aware of the issue and our team is working on it. meanwhile, you can try tips mentioned by other users. some users disabled ssl and that worked for them. reply david mckinney says: oct 12, 2018 at 1:01 am thank you. disabling the ssl really worked. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 12, 2018 at 1:19 pm hey david, glad to hear that david mckinney says: oct 12, 2018 at 1:33 pm okay. now how do i turn the ssl back on for weebly? turning it off was easy. turning it back on, not so,much. i do not want to leave it unprotected. thanks. wpbeginner support says: oct 14, 2018 at 3:13 pm hi david, you’d find instructions on weebly’s website or reach out to their support. emily s. says: oct 2, 2018 at 2:43 pm i am trying to follow the video, but my bluehost dashboard doesn’t look anything like the one pictured. i can’t figure out how to install wordpress! do you have any suggestions? i can’t seem to go any further because i can’t figure out how to do that step. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 2, 2018 at 7:33 pm hi emily, once you have logged into your bluehost account you will see a link to log into your wordpress admin area. reply lerissa patrick says: sep 18, 2018 at 8:44 pm wow! i was dreading the prospect of recreating my weebly website in wordpress … and now i don’t have to do it! thank you so much for this nifty little tool. after a couple of false starts, it ripped right through its tasks, and i’m done! so very cool … reply jo says: sep 10, 2018 at 3:18 pm hey, so i built my site, free in weebly, and have my bluehost account. i tried using your importer but the url weebly provided is https not http…. is that because i didn’t purchase anything from weebly? when i run the importer tool it says that it can’t find any content on the weebly url. so appreciate your advice on this! reply karin says: sep 4, 2018 at 11:23 pm hi, i am extracting my weebly site from ipage, which seemed to work, then imported it to wordpress following the instructions, but i can’t see it to see what it looks like. the home button at the top of the dashboard says ss_site_title when i click on it, it goes to the weebly site, how do i see what the wordpress looks like before i make it live? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 6, 2018 at 7:16 pm hi karin, we are not sure what you mean. if you have successfully imported your weebly content in wordpress, you will see it under ‘posts’. it is possible that your domain name is still pointing to your weebly website. in that case, you will need to change your domain name settings from your weebly account and point it to your ipage hosting account by changing the dns server settings. reply kylen says: sep 4, 2018 at 5:27 pm hey there! i’m working on moving a client from weebly to wordpress but i’m running into an issue with the weebly to wordpress importer. i’m getting an error from the converter that is saying no blog content was found. the blog in question has 13 posts and the url is correct. tried with both the root url and the blog extension but it can’t seem to find any posts. are there any troubleshooting options to figure out why the converter isn’t finding the posts? reply reka says: oct 3, 2018 at 10:10 am hi kylen, try to disable the ssl certification under weebly settings and republish the site. after that the url will start with http instead of https. run the converter on the http url. it worked for me, it might do so for you as well. reply lee ann says: aug 8, 2018 at 2:46 am hi, i’ve been wanting to move my website from weebly to wp for a while but have been scared about the whole process! how does this solution impact my wp theme choice? does it create a custom theme, or write over a default? trying to understand the process. thanks! reply caroline d says: jul 26, 2018 at 2:25 pm i have got the same problem as stated by other above where it is saying i have no content reply jerry peres says: jul 13, 2018 at 9:01 am i lost some content when moving from weebly to wp. on that time i was very disappointed. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 13, 2018 at 3:15 pm hi jerry, if you followed this tutorial, then your original weebly content should be safe and you can still manually copy and paste it. you can also run the importer again, it is smart enough not to fetch duplicate content. reply chloe says: jul 11, 2018 at 5:53 am hi, i have a weebly site but not a weebly domain name, it is not a blog but a website…can i convert it to wordpress just as easily? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 16, 2018 at 7:12 am hi chloe, yes, you can move it to wordpress by following the same instructions. reply pat s says: jul 2, 2018 at 8:36 am if i export my weebly blog to wordpress does it remove my content from weebly? i would like to copy my blog to wordpress to print the blog into a book but i do not want lose my weebly blog formatting and content. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 5, 2018 at 2:08 am hi pat, no it does not remove any content. reply shawn williams says: jun 21, 2018 at 6:54 pm i am also getting the “could not find any content in your weebly blog to export” error. does this exporter still function? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 21, 2018 at 8:16 pm hey shawn, yes it still functions, however depending on the size of your website it may sometimes timeout due to memory issues. please try again later. reply shawn williams says: jun 22, 2018 at 6:37 am a comment on this thread indicates that the exporter will only work if the domain is also registered on weebly, is this the case, and if so is there a workaround? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 24, 2018 at 8:44 pm hi shawn, we don’t understand. actually the importer would work whether you have a weebly branded domain, a custom domain registered with weebly, or a custom domain registered elsewhere. aaron says: jun 16, 2018 at 1:09 pm hey there, for some reason when i try to export my weebly site, it is saying “could not find any content in your weebly blog to export. did you enter the correct url?” i have made sure the url is correct and tried many times. what can i do to fix this? reply alberto says: aug 29, 2018 at 6:05 am hello. i’m getting the same error as aaron. i’ve tried several times but always get the same message: “could not find any content in your weebly blog to export. did you enter the correct url?” is there a way to fix this? thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 3, 2018 at 8:48 pm hi alberto, you can try again in a few minutes. sometimes the server times out during the process. reply alberto says: sep 4, 2018 at 8:32 am hello and thanks for replying. i’ve tried several times but i always get the same message. btw, do you have to enter the username and email address used in weebly to do the import at fields name and email? wpbeginner support says: sep 6, 2018 at 8:47 pm hi alberto, it seems to be working. no, you do not have to use the same name or email in order to do the import. linda says: jun 12, 2018 at 9:37 am hello – i am so happy to see this! although i am a little worried about losing my content when moving from weebly to wp. does it transfer everything across including blog and photos? do you provide a service where you can do it for me? please le me know. thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: jun 15, 2018 at 12:01 pm hi linda, sorry, we do not offer blog transfer service for weebly. we think you will be able to do that on your own, there may be a few hiccups but eventually you will succeed. let us know if you run into any issues during the process and we will be glad to help. reply kristi bothur says: jun 5, 2018 at 12:26 pm will your tool also move blog posts to the new site? what about comments on the posts? reply petrina says: may 26, 2018 at 4:05 am hi, is there a way to import products from my weebly e-commerce shop to woocommerce (wordpress) using this tool? i am very desperate as i have over 400 digital products that i need to transfer. i am hoping there is a way to do this. any help would be much appreciated. reply phil says: may 25, 2018 at 6:49 am the exporter tool at weeblytowp doesn’t seem to be working. i just tried it on 2 different weekly sites and it results in: “could not find any content in your weebly blog to export. did you enter the correct url? go back” reply chloe marrable says: jul 13, 2018 at 8:43 pm i had the same issue, please can you help? i checked the url…is it because my weebly site is not a blog? reply sarah brechner says: may 4, 2018 at 12:34 pm this is brilliant! thanks so much. everything transferred except for some images. i can deal with those. name servers: my only problem came when i tried your instructions for domain name servers. these instructions are only for those who have bought domains through weebly. if you haven’t bought your domain through weebly, you will not see any domains page on your account. this is important! apparently, you must go to your outside domains registrar and make the name server changes there. i was told this by weebly. note: i haven’t made the name server changes to my domain registrar yet. *so can you confirm this procedure? many people purchase their domains elsewhere, and these instructions won’t work for us, because we don’t have a domains page in weebly. reply wpbeginner support says: may 7, 2018 at 7:46 pm hi sarah, for users who purchased their domain elsewhere, they will need to login to their account on their domain registrar website to change nameserver and other settings. reply finn mclennan-elliott says: may 1, 2018 at 10:00 pm every time i download the export.xml file, it tells me that it is too big, its always 2.17 or 2.27 mb and it needs to be less than 2mb. if i don’t select pages its still too big. and if i choose rss option it won’t let me upload it because its not a wxr into wordpress. how do i make it smaller? i am unsure how to draft or unpublish parts of my site without doing it manually. reply wpbeginner support says: may 2, 2018 at 9:18 pm hi finn, there are two things that you can do. 1. you can increase the file upload size limit in wordpress. 2. you can split the xml file to make it smaller. reply petrina says: apr 18, 2018 at 12:04 pm hi, is there a way to import products from my weebly e-commerce shop to woocommerce (wordpress) using this tool? i am very desperate as i have over 400 digital products that i need to transfer. i am hoping there is a way to do this. any help would be much appreciated. reply abby says: mar 31, 2018 at 3:28 pm hi will this work also if the weebly site have a store ? thank you reply becky says: mar 29, 2018 at 7:13 pm oh, how i wish this had worked. but like most people in this thread, i too received the error message “could not find any content in your weebly blog to export. did you enter the correct url?” yes, the website content is online, active and working. i had been using chrme to attempt this with no results, so i tried it in firefox as well, which also gave no results, the same error message and took even longer. too bad; this would be really valuable if it just did what was designed to do. reply kathleen says: mar 22, 2018 at 1:16 am this tutorial is fantastic, but i’ve hit a bump in the road. when i click to “export my weebly website” i’m directed to a blank page. not sure what i could be doing wrong. thanks for making this video. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 22, 2018 at 8:25 pm hi kathleen, once you are redirected, you need to wait while the script runs in the background and prepares the export file. once ready, it will be automatically begin downloading. reply « 1 2 3 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) maxcdn coupon get 25% off maxcdn, the same service that we use to make our site super fast. oio publisher coupon get $10 off on oio publisher, a robust ad management plugin for wordpress. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.