how to make more money on youtube: 4 helpful tips to know – lifestyle by ps
  home sweatshirts t-shirts blog expand submenu blog collapse submenu blog fashion fitness grooming log in create account cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us your cart close cart site navigation home sweatshirts t-shirts blog fashion fitness grooming log in search cart cart how to make more money on youtube: 4 helpful tips to know mar 20, 2020 users upload 300 hours of youtube content every minute. that can mean that your videos face stark competition, and may not be seen by an audience that is as wide as you may have hoped. additionally, over the past few months, many creators have seen youtube "punish" them by demonetizing their channels. youtubers often speak about how even mildly controversial topics often get their videos pulled from making money. so, do you know how to make more money on youtube with these facts in mind? read on for more information. 1. be reliable youtubers have often discussed that not being reliable with your content can lead to the algorithm no longer suggesting it to others. as such, creating regular content that your subscribers can count on is key to ensuring that your channel makes as much money as possible. 2. be professional if you want to make money with your youtube channel, treat it as a professional venture. create branding and make your youtube logo uniform across all platforms. using uniform branding shows you take youtube as a business seriously, and aren't there just to take advantage of the platform. 3. sell merch if you have even a few thousand subscribers, you can successfully sell merchandise. of course, the bigger your channel is, the more success you'll have selling it. but this doesn't mean you can't start from the ground up. selling merch is another way to monetize your youtube channel without having to rely on ad revenue. ad revenue comes and goes, but this is a sustainable business model. youtube even allows you to integrate a merch store with your channel so that users don't even need to leave your videos to shop your items. make sure that your merch is high-quality, and designed with your fans in mind. this can mean using a catch phrase you use often, your face or another graphic that you've designed. you may even wish to use this as an exercise in flexing your graphic design skills and create something awesome and one of a kind for your viewers. 4. create a patreon many youtubers are turning to patreon as a way to sustain themselves and make money while youtube demonetizes people. this gives your fans the option of supporting you one-on-one, as well as offering exclusive content to your biggest fans. you can release videos earlier to your patreon viewers, offer a service or give them exclusive videos. it's a great way to earn a side income off of your youtube channel. how to make more money on youtube the key to how to make more money on youtube is to leverage your audience and use that as a way to monetize. currently, youtube ads do not pay as much as they once did, so creators are getting creative. and no doubt, you can too. want more information on all things technology, lifestyle and business-related? if so, have a look at the rest of our site! tags: make more money on youtube share share on facebook tweet tweet on twitter pin it pin on pinterest our site is built on shopify. you can too build a money making store. start your store on shopify click here to try shopify for free (14 days free trial with this link) ← back to make money online disclosure : lifestyle by ps is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us facebook twitter pinterest instagram google plus © 2020, lifestyle by ps ecommerce software by shopify paypal inr aud cad eur gbp usd search