nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop finding work overseas: 15 ways to earn money while traveling how much money do you need for your trip? $1,000? $2,000? $5,000? $50,000? i’ve estimated that a yearlong trip around the world will cost you an average of $50 per day. that includes day-to-day expenses, flights, gear, insurance, and everything in between. (it’s why my book is called how to travel the world on $50 a day!) for most people, the thought of saving thousands of dollars to travel the world — or just travel at all — is a daunting prospect. while there are many ways to save money and travel on an ultra-tight budget (less than $50 a day), for some, there’s no amount of spending cuts or saving tips that will help them save enough. (of course, to me, being broke is the best reason to go travel but that’s another story.) reading articles on how people saved [insert some crazy amount here] for travel (and how you can do it too!) can make you dispirited. “i could never do that,” you say. “sure, those people saved tens of thousands making minimum wage, but i can’t even afford food.” all those articles on travel blogs, elite daily, buzzfeed, and the like do people a great disservice — and are sometimes unrealistic. i admit i’m guilty of this too. i’ve highlighted those folks and have often talked about how mindsets just need to be changed. i’ve said, “you can save all this money too” — without also saying “but if you can’t, it is ok because there’s another option.” travel within the budget you have, not the budget you wish you had. if you can’t save x, who cares? just do the best you can with what you have. i think what gets lost in all those articles is that no matter how much money you save, that number is good enough. it’s not all or nothing. i recently talked to someone who saved $5,000 for his trip. it took him close to a year to get there. instead of giving up his dream, he simply decided to go to central and south america. this part of the world is cheaper and his money would last longer. moreover, he decided to do some volunteering to help cover his costs. he’ll go as long as his money lasts, but he’s still going! if you don’t have as much money to travel as you want, consider option b: working overseas. leave with what you have and then find work along the way to keep your wallet flush with cash — and keep you traveling. it’s an option not enough travelers consider. many people know about it but few actually do it. but it’s not as hard to do as you might imagine. working abroad is a unique and wonderful experience. it provides new insights into a country. it exposes you to a different culture. and it allows you to learn a new language, meet new people, and get a new perspective on the world. it’s an experience not many people get a chance to have. i worked in thailand and taiwan and it was life changing. i learned more about myself during that time than i did at any other point in my travels. finding work overseas is an informal process, and if you remember you are looking for a job rather than a career — and stay flexible — you’ll be able to find work anywhere. whole economies and industries are built around employing travelers. (heck, i don’t think the australian economy would survive without the labor backpackers and travelers provide!) many of the jobs will be unglamorous and hard, but they will allow you to earn enough money to keep you on the road longer. here are some examples of jobs that are easy for travelers to get and often don’t require a long commitment: teaching english (or any language!) this is the easiest type of job to get for native english speakers. teaching jobs are incredibly abundant around the world, especially in southeast asia. really, when in doubt, find a teaching job. they pay well, the hours are flexible, many many countries offer huge bonuses, and some schools will pay for your flight over. i saved over ten thousand dollars by teaching in thailand. i’ve had friends pay off their student loans by teaching in south korea. there are a lot of online resources for potential teachers, but if you’re interested i wrote a huge digital step-by-step guide on how to get a job! not a native english speaker? teach your own language. there’s a language school out there for everyone, especially in big international cities! you can also use websites like italki to teach people your native language online (if anyone wants to teach me swedish, let me know!). you can do this from anywhere in the world and you don’t need any special accreditation. sign in, talk, and get paid! (benny lewis from fluent in 3 months is a huge fan of the site — and he’s the best language expert i know, so it must be good!) i taught in thailand and taiwan: not only did i have a fantastic time being an expat, i also learned a lot about myself and living overseas, and made enough money to keep me on the road for years. it’s an experience i’ll never forget. get seasonal work move with the seasons and work in ski resorts, as a camping guide, on boats, in bars or restaurants, whatever. there are many options — wherever there’s a big tourist season, you’ll find a big demand for temporary labor. make sure you get to your destination well before the season starts to secure a job — if you show up mid-season, all the good jobs will be taken. ask around at hostels in the area and they will be able to point you in the right direction! do freelance work online if you have a background in web services, design, programming, or anything tech, a website like upwork is a super way to find virtual work as you travel. there’s a lot of competition, but if you build up your portfolio, you can get a lot of work over time. i have a friend who gets all her freelance consulting jobs from upwork and it pays her enough so she can keep traveling. if you don’t have tech skills, you can still start a profile and find clients for a variety of research-based and virtual assistant jobs. task rabbit, outsource.com, and fiverr are three other sites for finding online work. work on a cruise ship this option is an excellent way to earn good money while getting a taste of the world, gaining some solid work experience, and networking with people (both fellow crew and passengers) from around the world. many of the easy, low-wage jobs usually go to people from developing countries, but there are many other jobs available to choose from. this book by wandering earl (who worked on a cruise ship) is a great place to get started. under 30? get a working holiday visa! working holiday schemes allow people under the age of 30 to work abroad. these programs tend to be used mostly by gap-year travelers, students, or young adult backpackers. most of the countries that offer these programs are english-speaking commonwealth countries such as canada, england, new zealand, and australia (under 35 now). the visa application process is pretty simple, and the visas are usually issued for one year. typically, the visa comes with the stipulation that you can’t work in one place for more than six months. most of the working holiday jobs you can find are typically service or low-wage office jobs. most people become office assistants, laborers, bartenders, or waiters. the pay is not always great, but it’s enough to live off of and usually will give you a little extra money to save for traveling. for these jobs, you’ll need to bite the bullet, fly to these countries, and look for work when you land. while sites like gumtree have some listings, you’ll find the majority of work when you land. many companies specialize in placing travelers. and hostels usually have job boards and can offer a lot of assistance in finding work! be an au pair love kids? take care of someone else’s! you’ll get room, board, and a weekly paycheck. you’ll have to be around a lot to watch the kids, but you’ll normally get the weekends off and some vacation time to explore the country! these are some popular websites for finding au pair jobs: au pair au pair world international exchange go au pair this is also a good article about what being an au pair is like. work in a hostel hostels are often looking for staff to work the desk, clean, or show the guests around town. you can often trade a few hours of cleaning for a free bed. even if you aren’t getting paid, but just getting free room and board, it’s still a way to save money. when you aren’t spending, you’re saving! moreover, these jobs can often be for as long as you want — a day, a week, a month… whatever you want and they need. worldpackers is a great resource for finding this kind of work in hostels around the world. become a scuba diving instructor if you are a certified diver and want to become an instructor (additional classes may be needed), there are dozens of huge scuba destinations around the world where you can easily find work (including thailand, cambodia, honduras, the caribbean, and bali). you can find jobs just by going there and asking around. use your skills! use your existing skills and talents to find work. teach people how to play music or how to dance, cut hair, offer business consulting, cook for people — use whatever skills you have to find a job. don’t be shy. be creative! websites like craigslist and gumtree are two places to advertise your abilities and find work. where there’s a will, there is a way! creating your job is one of the easiest ways to get a job. somewhere at the destination you are going is a person who wants to learn the skill you have. teach them. get paid. become a bartender bars need bartenders. so you’ll find plenty of bars that pay cash to travelers looking for work. bars in party destinations or at hostels are the best places to start looking, as they often have a high turnover and the work can be steady. in countries that have working holiday visas, these jobs also often go to travelers. i’ve also seen bars in southeast asia and europe hire travelers under the table to do work and pass out fliers. it’s not a lot of money but it’s enough to cover some meals and drinks. work in a restaurant in that same vein, waitstaff, busboys, and dishwashers are always in demand, since people come and go from those jobs very frequently. these jobs are easy to get, especially in popular backpacking and party destinations, as well as large cities. again, in countries that have working holiday visas, travelers become the backbone of the service economy and jobs can often be easy to get. do volunteer work while these jobs don’t pay, you’ll save money on room and board, which will keep you on the road longer. plus, you’ll be doing something good. win-win! you don’t have to spend a lot of money with large global organizations in order to volunteer; those companies just end up keeping a large cut for themselves for “operations.” instead, when you arrive at a destination, find volunteer opportunities where your time (and money) can help the most. i also highly recommend the website grassroots volunteering; it’s the best site for finding small-scale, local volunteer initiatives. additionally, worldpackers, workaway.info and wwoofing are other good resources to find volunteer opportunities. be a tour guide use your love of travel to work in travel! tour companies are always on the lookout for new tour guides. this is more of a “real” job than the rest, but it’s a fun (though tiring) means of employment. the pay isn’t great, but you get your expenses paid while on the tour and get to meet people from all over the world. companies that often hire travelers are busabout, kiwi experience, new europe walking tours, and contiki. (note: these jobs often require a long-term commitment.) work on a yacht if you love the water, work on a boat (and forever be singing “i’m on a boat” by lonely island). yachting jobs are surprisingly easy to get without much experience (though it helps), and you’ll be able to sail around while doing so. one of my readers did it so she could see the world. you can find jobs on the following websites: jobs on yachts superyacht jobs the crew network note: positions are long-term, and you’ll be required to get a stcw 95 certificate, which covers all basic yacht training, including fire and water safety training. take whatever you can find you can always trade your labor for pay. there are a lot of short-term jobs around the world, jobs that you can get on the fly. if you’re willing to work a few hours each day in exchange for room, board, and extra cash, you will always find something you can do. here are several incredible resources for finding jobs as a traveler: craiglist gumtree helpx.net workaway.info worldpackers wwoofing **** for those who want to work abroad but aren’t interested in any of the above, finding work is a bit harder — but not impossible. for older travelers or travelers with a skill or master’s degree, you probably want a better-paying, more traditional job relating to your skill set. you can find them, but it takes a lot more time. in the european union, visa rules require companies to give job preference to people within the eu before they hire someone else. in asia, most companies want a foreigner to be able to speak the local language. finding “good” jobs requires more work and a lot of networking. while there are some job boards (see below) that can help, getting a more traditional job overseas requires you to either get contacted by a company or building your network and pounding the pavement when you get there! some steps you can take to find a job overseas: search job boards before you leave. contact expat groups before you leave (and when you arrive). attend their meetups. create a linkedin profile. bring copies of your résumé, recommendations, and any other professional certificates. make business cards. go to as many networking events as possible. apply for jobs from local job boards. you can find good jobs, but it is not easy. i’ve had many friends who have decided to stay in cities longer and, as they built up their social network, they’ve found traditional jobs. here are some resources for finding jobs overseas: council on international educational exchange work abroad program – it offers students and recent graduates short-term work permits for australia, new zealand, france, germany, ireland, canada, and costa rica. the council also offers advice and support, but it is your responsibility to find a job. alliances abroad – guarantees paid work placement before your departure and organizes accommodations. bunac – offers work-abroad programs in the uk, australia, new zealand, and canada. peace corps – a us governmental program that places people around the world. open only to us citizens. volunteers get a stipend and money at the end of their contract. the program also helps pay off student loans. us state department – has a good list of job placement websites. go abroad – this site also has a list of available jobs from around the world. it’s geared towards younger travelers. **** whether you are going to teach english, wait tables, bartend, sit in an office, work at a hostel, or land a high-paying job in your field, working overseas is something that will change you forever. living in a different country is a unique experience not many people get to have. it teaches you a lot about yourself and your perceptions of the world. at the end of the day, that is what travel is about. don’t let money woes get in the way of travel. if you are creative and flexible about what you want to do, you will find work. remember you aren’t looking for a career — you’re just looking for work. when you are flexible in what you want to do, there will always be work available to help increase your travel funds and get you to the next destination. you can worry about a career when you come home! don’t worry bout saving a lot of money for your trip. if you can’t, just get out there, find a job, work overseas, earn money, and then explore the world longer! p.s. looking for another way to kick start your new year? over at the forums, we are doing our quarterly travel action challenge, where you win prizes (like a $100 usd amazon.com gift card)! photo credits: 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 last updated: january 4, 2020 categories africa airlines america asia australia blogging tips books canada caribbean central america couples travel eco-tourism europe family travel female travel flyte interviews lgbt travel middle east new zealand photography points & miles random musings south america travel advice travel gear travel tips my new memoir is out!! my other awesome books want to share your tips and advice? got questions? visit the community forum to ask questions, get answers, meet people, and share your tips! disclosure: please note that some of the links above may be affiliate links, and at no additional cost to you, i earn a commission if you make a purchase. i recommend only products and companies i use and the income goes to keeping the site community supported and ad free. facebook twitter pinterest email related posts the ultimate guide to traveling when you have no money finding a new balance between work and play 5 ways to make your money last when you travel there are 43 comments anna colorista january 19, 2017 at 10:02 am such great ideas for working abroad! it’s actually my favourite way to fund my travels because when i work (for example as a teacher on in a restaurant) i get to know the culture much more than if i just travel. that’s also the best way to learn new languages! reply megan thudium january 19, 2017 at 10:04 am loved reading this matt! next month, i’m volunteering with the diverbo program that will take me to spain for a week (free of charge) and chill with a great bunch of spaniards and speak english. there’s endless possibilities, you just have to take the time to research them. reply alton january 19, 2017 at 10:44 am what about people over 50 (or 55)? your options above seem to work for the younger nomadic people, but what are our options? reply tf january 19, 2017 at 3:26 pm peace corps is a great way to retire if you’re in good health. it’s my plan! i was a volunteer in my 20s and plan to do it again in retirement. reply su january 19, 2017 at 6:19 pm i was an oldet volunteer. great experience! reply joella january 19, 2017 at 11:34 am one job that is often over looked on travel blogs is teaching at an international school. not tefl but teaching your home nation’s or an international curriculum. of course you need to be properly qualified but, if you are, it’s a great way to earn, save and travel. i got about 15 weeks of vacation when i was doing it and the benefits and pay at any decent school are great. i’d recommend it to any qualified teacher. reply coperfield january 19, 2017 at 1:29 pm nice recommendations, however this thing of “working abroad” mostly applies for people from the anglo-european world. we, the ones who live in the “third world”, don´t have the same opportunities. working holiday visas are not available to us. we can´t just work in a restaurant or in a bar from another country, for example, as a latino, try to work in spain. hahaha you are gonna get kicked in two minutes. or as an african, try to work in japan. same thing applies. a better title would be: “how to find work overseas if you are from europe, usa, australia or new zealand.” reply jacques a october 5, 2017 at 9:06 pm coperfield, you are very right. it will be hard for latinos and africans. i am a california-based us citizen but i am originally from africa. with my u.s. passport, i can visit most latin american countries for 3 months without a visa. consequently, i have decided to join the nomads and i plan to be in colombia and mexico in 2018 for a start. i love the people of latin america! the cost of living is cheaper than in california. nb: as a retired french and english translator with 32 years of experience, i will use my language skills to earn some money as outlined in the article, in addition to my monthly retirement pension. reply ian march 13, 2020 at 6:55 am i know this comment was three years ago, but i felt the need to reply. i’m from the philippines. and our options for working holiday visas are very limited. i’m wondering, then, what could be alternatives for us people coming from the third world. i’m also curious to know what other people from the third world were able to do. what kind of jobs they got, etc. reply scott january 19, 2017 at 3:38 pm i had been travelling the world and when i ended up in thailand i realized that was where i wanted to be based. i then went back to the us and quit my job. i had to look hard but 10 days later i wad having dinner with the president of a small company explaining how i could habdle all his se asia opportunities. i moved to thailand 11 years ago and now have a house on the beach, a wife and two kids, and have worked or visited 33 countries. i am currently on a half year assignment in rio. sell your skills to get what you really want in life. i don’t make the same money i used to but my life is infinitely better. scott reply chase april 27, 2019 at 3:33 am could you elaborate on your background/skills and job to give a better idea of what’s possible for others? reply katie january 19, 2017 at 8:22 pm the working holiday visa is a great option for working overseas- having had one in australia, it’s a great way to get your foot in the door. while limited to those under 30 currently, the australian government is in talks to raise the age to 35, which is awesome. reply mareta january 19, 2017 at 11:46 pm i got a tier 5 youth mobility work visa in england i;m australian got a job under31, and i payed off 11000 in credit card debt whilst i worked and lived in uk, travelled to countries during my breaks such as dubai, turkey, austria, egypt, greece-santorini and agistri islands, portugal, ghana africa, ireland, scotland, israel and brazil and not to mention living and working all over england! how often can you say you travelled and payed off your credit card debt? due to the pound being far greater than the aussie dollar this gave me an opportunity to pay it off quickly and also england location is paradise for those wanting to experience europe in an affordable way. i literally took a huge risk coming to uk with debt, but had faith i would pay it off in a fun productive way and i did that working as a live-in-carer! i used my skills, i have a nursing and disability support carer background and love working with people. all live-in-care agencies give you free accommodation obviously you live at work 24/7 of course there’s always down time and your breaks are flexible 2 hours a day, the agency i work for, i have £35 food allowance weekly and don’t have any bills to pay. it’s not for everyone, not many people can give up their comfortable bed for 2 years and live at different environments at work… i covered mainly permanent carer’s holidays from a week to a month at a time and would go on a holiday straight after and then straight to work, i did this for a year. i didn’t need to rent out an apartment in the uk as there really wasn’t a need for it. after a year i wanted to settle a bit and decided to take on a permanent care role and that’s how i payed off my credit card and still manage to take my breaks every now and then. it really changed my life and allowed me to travel and really experience britain’s culture and also gave me a chance to travel without worrying about tight budgets etc. too much, and i felt i had a family i could always go back to in uk. reply steve february 3, 2017 at 1:12 am hi mareta, sounds like a great idea to see different parts of the uk, can you give any links for some of the best agencies you worked for. thanks. steve. ps i have 20 yrs experience working in the disabilities industry. reply caren bee january 20, 2017 at 3:38 pm love these! i can attest to a bunch of them..have worked as a bartender, teaching english and have plans to work in ski resorts this winter. not only are you banking extra money…most of these jobs are really fun! reply dt january 20, 2017 at 5:18 pm great article!!! i’m currently saving up to go traveling for 6 months in south east asia (since it’s about as cheap as it gets over there!!), but it’s always good to consider working if ever finances don’t add up and i end up running out of money earlier than expected! reply joe buchoff january 21, 2017 at 1:49 am i’m curious, how do you start doing freelance work? i have found it hard to get a gig on thumbtack and other sites, and i don’t often have the money to shell out to “bid” for a job on those type of freelance sites. reply noelle january 21, 2017 at 4:38 am great advice. i’m a bit on the more mature traveler path, but after finishing my masters and with a few years of industry experience i decided i wanted to move to england. it did take a few months to find a decent job, but it was a great decision for me! i’ve been able to travel on weekends and shorter trips throughout england and europe and without breaking the bank since i’ve still been working the whole time. reply silvia january 22, 2017 at 3:11 pm i have just checked and you need documentation of training or experience as a professional educator to become a paid teacher in italki. you should correct this mistake to make your post reliable. besides this, thank you for sharing this ideas. reply siggi einarson january 24, 2017 at 4:05 pm this is a great post! i work as a freelancer and it is a good way to get some income but it can be tough because it isn’t necessarily always reliable….clients pay late, maybe you don’t book as many jobs as you would like, or can’t find an ongoing engagement. the best thing you can do, in my opinion, is vary your income source! reply lisa thomson january 25, 2017 at 6:24 am nice ideas dear. money is the biggest problem in western countries specially for the travellers of asian countries due to currency matters. you have shared good ideas here. i would love to prefer freelancing. reply joy peter january 25, 2017 at 8:00 am great ways to earn money while traveling. this way it’s possible to visit all the favorite destinations. reply domino january 26, 2017 at 1:10 pm question. for volunteer work like workaway, do you need a working visa for that particular country? or does this not count as work as it’s voluntary? thanks reply raymond carroll january 30, 2017 at 4:07 pm hi matt, good post. i’m scottish and have worked abroad (on and off) with little or no skills or qualifications since 1987. some of the jobs i have worked are: jersey, channel islands – 15 months (construction labourer), toronto, canada – 2 years (industrial flooring), al fayoum, egypt – 6 months (us aid contract – civil engineering), anaheim, california, usa – 1 year (psm – pacific sewer maintenance), bangkok, thailand – 2 years (nam ya – cleaner salesman, timeshare & teaching english), taiwan – 6 months (cleaner salesman); i have also made some money with online projects. in my experience – even with little or no qualifications, if you want it bad enough (to live and work overseas) you can have it – but you need to stay focused, persevere, sell yourself, and do lots of networking with like-minded people. lots of good info in this post. thanks for sharing! reply mustafa february 2, 2017 at 3:04 pm thank you for this amazing article matt about th daily budget, during my last trip i spent 35€ a day including flight insurance gears etc, i hope next time to do it on 10€ 15€ im sure i can do it reply chris bell february 7, 2017 at 1:23 pm i enjoyed your list. when you travel alone or with a like-minded friend you can really enjoy the exploring the world for as long as you desire. id certainly recommend it to anyone who hasnt tied himself down yet. people often forget how many marketable skills they have. especially in the tourism industry there are usually quite some jobs for travelers. and if you are open to anything you can end up in the oddest places. i once spend a vacation working in a pancake restaurant of a migrated family. reply an february 9, 2017 at 3:26 am matt you are the best. i really enjoyed your articles. i was really looking for ideas to make money while travelling. i guess teaching english or german in asia would be a great way to make money 🙂 for me. thanks and cheers! reply davide february 9, 2017 at 5:06 am in my 7 years of long term traveling, reducing the expenses has been so far the best strategy. when we do work-exchanges we can spend as little as 0$ per month, and when we visit no more than 150$ per month using hospitality networks, hitchhiking and cooking our own food. one month of work in a western country can fuel our trips for 1-2 years! reply alex february 23, 2017 at 8:43 pm matt, this is great advice. i have also learned to save money over the years when it comes to traveling, with the help of my parents. one thing that has been helpful is to book ahead of time. it can save lots of money down the road. i agree with how you said that you should pick a budget and stick to that each day of your vacation. that is a great tip because when people are on vacation they always feel a need to spend a lot. another recommendation for traveling out of country is to do your currency exchange before you leave. you will avoid costly exchange rates. reply patrick gioko march 4, 2017 at 2:20 pm real good ideas here for a budget traveler. a friend who works on a cruise ship has been to so many places in north america, asia and europe. good thing is that he travels as he makes money, kinda being paid to travel. reply julie cohen march 30, 2017 at 1:59 pm hi matt! i love your blog- thanks for all the information! above you say you wrote a huge digital step to step guide on how to get a job overseas- but the link doesn’t work. help! 🙂 thanks, julie reply arnold april 9, 2017 at 6:58 pm wonderful suggestions right here. i would probably go with a freelancer idea, cuz then as long as you have a computer close-by, you are sorted. and the pay is usually great as long as you have a good portfolio set up. you can work for the uk clients and get paid like the uk employee, but live in hawaii or thailand, where living costs are way lower. i do not know about working as a waiter, especially if you do not speak the language of locals. and it\’s not always possible to learn the local language fast. and it may not be useful if you have to spend half a year learning, but will not be able to use it elsewhere. after all, it\’s english which is used in the most of the world, but not the others. thanks for the suggestions! reply aloka november 1, 2017 at 10:21 am i do not see any information related to work permit and visa for people who aren’t americans, british, etc. i have an indian passport and i need to get a tourist visa every time i want to travel out of my country (there are about 18 countries where indian passport holders do not need visa) and one of the conditions of such a visa is that i cannot take up any gainful employment in the country i am traveling to. visitors who wish to do unpaid or volunteer work have to secure a work permit to do that. what are your thoughts on this? reply roland november 3, 2018 at 2:42 am the truth is, you need to decide if you have what it takes. im from guyana and i too need visas however even the countries i dont need visas for i still need a work permit. however it never stopped me. i’ve work in anguilla, st. lucia, barbados, suriname and out of those i obtain 2 work permit that was offered by the companies i worked for. the truth is that i have work in places that wanted to pay for permit and i refuse simply because i wanted to keep travelling and not be tied down in a country for a year. well im in st lucia and in a few days it will make a year since i’m here on this permit. after this who knows, i got my eye on brazil reply tomáš november 1, 2017 at 2:21 pm teaching english! next year i am moving to mexico and i hope i will find this job! or work as a bartender. doesn’t matter. just to travel and be happy no matter what. nice post as always! reply nina december 23, 2017 at 3:55 pm love this post! i find it funny that so many people think that individuals who travel and live abroad are lucky. the reality is, many of these people, me included, actually work to sustain the lifestyle. we found opportunities that helped us travel often and live abroad. there are plenty of options, more than are listed here (although this is a great list and has the most popular options). get out there and find out how to work abroad so you can travel more! 🙂 thanks for this, matt! reply yishay february 27, 2018 at 10:35 am hey nina, how are you? can you elaborate on the other options of work, please? reply bridget january 2, 2018 at 7:20 pm hey matt, just curious where you found the information on visas being eligible in australia for under 35’s? as far as i can find… this is in the process but hasn’t actually happened yet… i hope to be wrong though! haha thanks reply chris december 17, 2018 at 9:31 pm just fyi and quite some years ago now – (as a then uk citizen) i applied for my australian working visa in bangkok, as someone told me it was easier if you were over age (maybe didn’t use their quota or something?) – anyway, i was then 34 and got one…not to be relied upon, but if you were in the area maybe worth a shot? reply iva says march 22, 2018 at 6:24 pm wow, great tips! thanks for sharing these awesome ideas. honestly, i’ve been traveling for two years now and i mostly stick to remote online work like content writing and seo optimization. i’ve never even thought of the other options, even though many of my friends have worked at restaurants during their travels. renting your space while you’re traveling is another way of making money as you travel even though you don’t necessarily do anything in the place you’re visiting. 🙂 reply roland november 3, 2018 at 2:34 am this was by far the best read on travel and earn i have read. well put together. i can say i feel like hoping on the next flight, which i really need to. thank you so much for this read. i will research your links some more and i will definitely keep checking this site reply dom november 13, 2018 at 6:27 pm this list really gives me ideas. thank you so far already! i quit my job, and due to circumstances i lost all my savings in the first week. now i am travelling since 6 months, and work for board and bed but to be honest? landing paid work is tough! especially right now since it is not the season anymore and it starts to get winter here in the mediterrarean. sure, there is this unstable (but otherwise very well paid) job i landed online, but since it is unstable i dont know how long i will have the money i saved from the 2 months of online work. if i could talk to myself a few years ago i would say; hey dom. i know youre a lazy bastard, but you will have the time of your life. but if you want to have drinks in thailand, or buy a new pair of trousers from time to time atleast (which btw is absolutely luxus right now for me….) you will have to learn how to code! force yourself. it will save your travelling ass! but appearently i never did, the time machine broke, or the multiverse is real and i visited a different past – in the end i do have to look around for labour work, and thanks to your list i know atleast where to start. which is to ask people who host me if they know people who need help with anything and dont mind paying a little bit for it. ps: language barriers are real. i wouldnt even know how to successfully bartend in a country i dont know the language! that used to be my gig; swinging the bottles around, filling the beer kegs and make the people smile. people came to bars just to visit me. when i didnt work, they didnt come. how would that work if i couldnt exchange a proper word with them, or what if if someone asks me something? oh hell. anyways: thank you very much, keep up the good work! reply lottie march 11, 2020 at 2:07 am thank you for this great content. i am a 20 year old u.s. citizen ready to leave home & start an independent life abroad. this post & the comments have been very helpful. i plan to leave atlanta by the end of 2020. wish me luck! reply leave a comment cancel reply by posting a comment, you agree to our community friendly, anti-spam comment policy that can be found here. get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site