home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas learn to journal by tal valante how intimately do you know the blank, virginal screen? do you have a love-hate relationship with it? on the one hand are many writing options, waiting to unfold. on the other, a dread of the unknown that freezes your fingers. and always, that vast, nagging question: what shall i write about? take heart! you’re surrounded by brilliant writing ideas waiting only for you to grab them and transform them into riveting pieces. whether you write a blog, fiction, or non-fiction, inspiration is all around you. here are some ways to make your daily life an endless source of writing ideas. 1. mix up topics interesting things happen when you choose a topic you care deeply about, and then combine it with something completely outside your experience. for example, perhaps you are pro-life, with strong opinions about abortion. let’s combine that with something you know absolutely nothing about. say, motorcycles. you could write a book about the member of a motorcycle gang whose girlfriend is pregnant. she doesn’t want the baby; he already visualizes it developing in her womb. when the baby is born, she disappears into the smog, and the biker is determined to raise the child himself. he wants his son to experience the world as he never had the opportunity to do. so he sets off on a journey across the country with his toddler. this can be a heartwarming novel, a hopeless tragedy, or even a comedy. it’s up to you. the possibilities are endless, even within this one scenario. 2. be a news hog the news offers exciting possibilities. make a habit of reading about what’s going on around you, especially the slice-of-life articles. you can build on these stories, making them your own. some ways of doing that are: imagine where the story could go next, and create a new ending of your own. imagine alternative beginnings to the story. what could be the background of the characters involved? change one major detail in the story. how would it impact the story? what new possibilities would that create? last week i read about two burglars who broke into a private residence and stole jewelry worth thousands of dollars. did they get away with it? no. they were quickly apprehended because one of the felons was caught staring straight into the house’s security camera, revealing his unmasked face. this seems to be an open-and-shut case. and yet, it made me wonder… the burglars were obviously experienced. they broke into the house without a problem, and they searched it systematically for valuable goods. it was clearly not their first job. so what caused the rookie mistake of not wearing face masks? could it be that the burglar caught on camera was distracted as he was making his preparations for the robbery, and so forgot to cover his face? what could have distracted him? was it a subliminal desire to quit this dark line of work? what made him go into house-breaking in the first place? and how did he feel when he looked directly into the camera, and probably realized he was in trouble? why not try to deactivate the camera or find out where it was transmitting to? don’t get me wrong. the true answers to these questions are probably boring: he was becoming overconfident after a long run of successful jobs and forgot to cover his face, or some such thing. but the possible answers are much more interesting. i can almost feel the conspiracy thickening around this man. or maybe it’s a comedy of errors? what would you make of his circumstances? 3. capture your dreams dreams can be a fertile ground for inspiration. they are the essence of imagination run amok. your sleeping mind thinks up ideas that your waking mind might reject before you’ve even had a chance to register them. these ideas can be precious writing material. your dreams are a gold mine, but so are other people’s dreams. when friends, family and strangers tell you about their dreams, that’s your chance to listen carefully. a friend of mine received the inspiration for her entire novel from a dream her husband had. (her story wasn’t based on his dream, but relied on the unreal atmosphere it created.) children’s dreams, in particular, are rich and free of filters. for example, your son’s dream about purple, diesel-drinking plants may inspire you to write the environmentally sympathetic version of the day of the triffids. how cool is that? 4. what if? this is probably my favorite question ever. i turn to it whenever i’m out of ideas. what if time travel were possible? where would my character go? what if three sisters decided to assassinate a tyrannical african despot? how would they do it? what if my husband decided that we should buy a motorhome and live on the roads for a year? try it! put together a long list of what-ifs. there’s nothing more liberating for the imagination than that little two-word phrase. 5. journaling—the straight way keeping a journal of your thoughts, feelings and experiences can help you capture great ideas from your own life. write to done has already covered this subject with two fascinating articles: how to journal and 5 ways your journal can take you deeper into your story. these will set you on the road to journaling success. and great story ideas. 6. journaling—with a twist what if you hate journaling? what if you think your life isn’t interesting enough to write about? well, make your life more interesting! what is a writer if not an astute liar, at the end of the day? start with the truth—always a good place—and then embroider. suppose you stood in a long checkout where the sales person was rude and obnoxious. in truth, you may have done nothing but await your turn, bear it, gather your groceries, and leave. but what would you like to have done? don’t write the truth. fantasize, fabricate, lie. re-create yourself as a character you’d like to read about. and think how surprised and impressed your children or grandchildren will be when they discover your journal! life is full of opportunities. don’t let them pass you by! try one of the exercises above and see where it takes you. make it a habit to do a few exercises every day and you’ll never again lack writing inspiration. what do you do when you’re looking for fresh writing ideas? share in the comments, please, and help inspire others as well! tweet261 pin106 share206 573 shares related posts writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] by shalhavit-simcha cohen how to make your story more powerful with journaling by claire deboer about the author tal valante ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >