start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising technology advertising how virtual private networks work jordan fried read full profile share pin it tweet share email these days there’s a lot of talk about virtual private networks, or vpns for short, and for good reason. as online privacy becomes an increasingly hot topic of discussion among politicians and activists, individuals have started to take online privacy into their own hands. while you may not have as much to hide as edward snowden, everyone can appreciate online privacy and should take the necessary steps to protect yourself. one of the best things you can do to protect your privacy and establish your anonymity online is by using a virtual private network. vpns allow you to connect to a private network through your regular connection to the world wide web. upon establishing a connection to this private network you’re able to mask your online activity, thus establishing your privacy online. even your internet service provider (isp) won’t be able to make sense of your internet activity. advertising this has a great many number of benefits, especially if you are constantly accessing sensitive information like private health or financial records that you’d like to keep safe from prying eyes. these days you can never be too safe on the world wide web. so, now that you have a general idea of what a vpn is, here’s an awesome infographic that will explain how a vpn works. enjoy and be sure to share the article if you found it useful or leave a comment below if you have questions. how virtual private networks work advertising detailed explanation on how vpns work at its core, a vpn is just a private network connection that you access through a public network like the world wide web. basically, you connect to a remote server of your choosing. you’ve either setup this server yourself, know of another server somewhere else in the world, or you’ve subscribed to a vpn service that allows you to gain access to their servers all around the world. when you connect to the virtual private network your computer attempts to establish a connection with this remote server. at this point the remote server authenticates your computer and your computer does the same to the server. assuming the computer and server authentication is successful, you’ll gain access to the remote server. advertising at this point you’re able to connect and access the internet through this remote server. this is powerful for many reasons: the biggest is that you’ll have a new ip address. having a new ip address means your computer thinks it’s in a different location. to give you a quick example, if you’re in singapore but you connect to a server in new york through your vpn connection, your computer will be able to surf the internet through the new york server and all your internet traffic will appear to be coming from new york. this is great, especially if you’re trying to do something like watch netflix from europe or access a blocked site abroad. advertising a vpn connection does a lot more than help you fake your location. with a vpn connection you’re able to encrypt your internet traffic, protecting yourself and your data. in fact your internet activity will be encrypted to the point where even your isp won’t be able to make sense of the data. a vpn can also help you protect yourself when you access the internet over public wi-fi like in cafes or airports. this is important because it protects your and your personal information. if you’re looking for a great vpn service you can type “best vpn services” into a search engine and come up with a lot of options. when looking for a vpn provider you want to look for speed (fast download speeds and unlimited bandwidth usage). there are a lot of great choices online when it comes to vpn providers so you’ll have no trouble finding one that works for you. privacy will be the hot topic for 2014, so now is a good a time to become more knowledgeable about privacy technology and leverage it in your favor. let me know if you have any questions by leaving a comment below! share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated advertising advertising more by this author jordan fried top 10 best blogs around the world that will inspire your life 5 reasons why 2014 is the year you start using a vpn secure your internet privacy with this guide how virtual private networks work how to make a stunning linkedin profile advertising trending in technology 1 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 2 11 meeting scheduler apps to boost your productivity this year 3 11 google chrome apps & features for getting more done with less effort 4 11 brain training apps to train your mind and improve memory 5 15 productivity chrome extensions to boost productivity in 2020 more by this author jordan fried top 10 best blogs around the world that will inspire your life 5 reasons why 2014 is the year you start using a vpn secure your internet privacy with this guide how virtual private networks work how to make a stunning linkedin profile trending in technology 1 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 2 11 meeting scheduler apps to boost your productivity this year 3 11 google chrome apps & features for getting more done with less effort 4 11 brain training apps to train your mind and improve memory 5 15 productivity chrome extensions to boost productivity in 2020 read next how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut advertising advertising productivity technology advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques tanvir zafar the founder of isu technologies, passionate in writing about productivity, creativity, entrepreneurship, work and technology. read full profile share pin it tweet share email typing is a lot of fun, especially if you’re the type of person who loves to write. whenever an idea comes to your head or you just want to communicate something, the feeling of scribbling things down in a computer is awesome. do you know that being able to type faster makes you more productive? in fact, it’ll save you 21 days every year just by typing faster! many people look up to master typists and wish that to handle a keyboard like they do. the truth is that none of them started that way, and they had to learn. in this piece, you’ll learn how to type faster with some useful tips and techniques: 1. work on your workspace and typing area a lot of people believe that fast and correct typing will start when you can master the keyboard. but the truth is, you will need to begin with getting a workspace that is clean, properly ventilated, and comfortable. also, for optimal typing, you will need to get a table and not out your laptop or computer on your lap. advertising if you will be working for an extended period, make sure that you’re comfortable. 2. fix your posture if you want to type well, the correct posture will be seated, straight backed, and with your feet planted a little apart, flat on the ground. you wrists should also be positioned in such a way that your fingers can cover the keyboard. tilt your head a bit as you can look at the screen properly as well. adjust your office chair so you’ll be able to easily play with the seat and get a proper posture. 3. hold your posture it is also very important that you keep this position as you type. ensure that your posture is good, and this way, you will be able to avoid getting aches on your wrists. these aches have a way of slowing you down and keeping you out of rhythm. keep your back and shoulders from hunching, and while relaxation should be your key goal as you work on, also be sure to stay upright. advertising 4. familiarize yourself with the keyboard the keyboard is your tool here, so you will need to get to know it. fortunately for you, most keyboards that you see will make use of the same layout; the qwerty layout. it is called that because of the letters that make the top left corner. you’ll also find that a lot of keyboards have keys around these main ones that do several tings. here’s a nice video to help you familiarize yourself with the keyboard: so, work on memorizing the positions of the letter keys, as well as some of the most used punctuation marks. you will need to understand where they are without looking at the keyboard. this is the only way you can learn to type fast. 5. close your eyes and say the keys out loud as you press them another great way to get to know the positions of these letters is to look away from them and directly at the screen. then, pronounce the keys as you press them and see if you’re correct. this step will go a long way in helping you to memorize the keys, and it can easily help you 6. start slowly with touch-typing improving your speed as you type is a matter of developing your skill over time. however, the quickest way to master typing will be touch typing. if this is your first time with touch typing, then you might spend a lot of time on this step. however, once you can type without looking at the keys, your speed will increase. advertising now, this typing method might feel a bit alien, but you’ll improve with time. 7. stick with it and don’t look at your hands the whole essence of this step is to keep you from looking at your keyboard as you type, so that your fingers are made to learn how the keys work. again, you might find that your speed reduces when you begin, but just stick to it. touch typing will help you to reach higher speeds and master it. 8. practice, practice, practice mastering the touch typing technique will prove to be a bit finicky, but once your posture is up and you get your fingers where they should be, you can only improve by practicing. spare some time on a daily basis to practice and master both accuracy and speed. with continuous practice, you will also notice that you make fewer errors with time. advertising 9. check out some online games there are also some websites that can help you with your practicing. they score you and record your words per minute, so you can try improving your record and competing with others as well. here’re some of the nice sites: typing club the typing cat typing.com 10. dictation practice if you don’t know what you can type, another alternative to getting good practice is to listen to something and try to type as you hear the words. there is no limit to the kind of things you can type, and you can even make the practice process more fun. so, get an e-book, an online lecture, or listen to a talk show and type. you could watch a tv show as well. 11. monitor your progress ensure that you keep track of the progress you make as you go on. but it is important that you don’t get obsessed with how many words you are able to type in a minute. rather, ensure that you stay comfortable while you type. with time, your words per minute will increase, and you’ll be able to clock up some high numbers. 12. get some formal training if you want there are actually a lot of specially designed courses and programs that will boost your typing ability. if you’re willing to improve your skill, get any of these and see how well they work for you: byte back peter’s online typing course don’t just finish reading this article and expect that you’ll type faster. you do need to work on your skills. it takes time to type fast but, practice makes perfect! more tips about typing faster how to save 21 days per year by typing fast 8 most effective games and apps to learn to type fast featured photo credit: cytonn photography via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 8 most effective games and apps to learn to type fast how to save 21 days per year by typing fast how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques advertising advertising more by this author tanvir zafar the founder of isu technologies, passionate in writing about productivity, creativity, entrepreneurship, work and technology. how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 10 best note taking apps to get organized 20 best places to work for a great career in 2020 15 best entrepreneurs books to start reading now to be successful 15 best organization apps to boost your productivity in 2020 advertising trending in technology 1 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 2 11 meeting scheduler apps to boost your productivity this year 3 11 google chrome apps & features for getting more done with less effort 4 11 brain training apps to train your mind and improve memory 5 15 productivity chrome extensions to boost productivity in 2020 read next how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated how to achieve a realistic work life balance how to stay motivated and reach your big goals in life about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.