skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about how to add a horizontal line to a wordpress post or page by jamie when you’re crafting a post or page on wordpress, it can be very easy to overlook the visual aspects of the final product. it’s important to take readability and organization into account. you can have the best copy in the world, but people aren’t going to want to read your page if it looks like a large block of text. one of the best ways to make your page more visually appealing is to include horizontal lines. simple lines can keep various sections of your page separated and organized. it makes the content easier to read and helps the reader find the find the section they’re looking for. adding lines horizontal lines is quite easy. you can do it on the visual editor or the text editor. adding horizontal lines in the html text editor if you’re comfortable working with html in the text editor, this is a very easy way to get the job done. when you’re crafting your page on the editing screen, you need to switch to html text editor. to do this, simply click on the tab labeled “text” on the upper right corner of the editor window. shown below (highlighted in red box) you’re now in the html editor. you should still be able to see the text you have written. the only difference is that all of the text is in one style. you’ll also be able to see the html code for all of your styling cues, such as bold or italicized text. to insert a horizontal line, move the text cursor to where you want the line. then, hit the “enter” key to create a new html line. in this blank html line, type the following code: <hr /> it’s as simple as that! you can add multiple horizontal lines throughout the page. you can even use double lines by creating another html line with the same code. <hr /> <hr /> it’s important that you don’t switch back and forth between the visual editor and html editor. doing so can result in formatting discrepancies. once you have added the horizontal line, click “update file” to save the changes. adding a horizontal lines in the visual editor you can also create horizontal lines within the visual editor. while older versions of the wordpress editor required you to do some code modification to do this, the modern platform has this functionality built right in. on the visual editor screen, you’ll notice a row of buttons. these buttons allow you to create automatic style changes without having to input code manually. the default row of buttons only contains a limited selection of features. however, if you look to the right of these buttons, you’ll notice three small dots. when you hover your mouse over these dots, the “toggle advanced” label will pop up. click this to reveal the second row of style buttons. the third button from the left is the horizontal line button. simply place the text cursor where you want to insert the line. press the horizontal line button and it will appear automatically. you can press this button as many times as you want to create multiple lines. creating horiztonal lines quickly in addition to using the designated editor button, you can create horizontal lines with a few keystrokes. wordpress has a convenient shortcut command so that you can keep on typing. to create a line, simply type “—” on an empty text line. then, hit “enter” on your keyboard. when you hit “enter,” the three dashes will transform into a horizontal line. you can find more information about this keyboard shortcut, as well as several others, by pressing the question mark button on the far right side of the second row of visual editor buttons. the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts jamie my name is jamie spencer and i have spent the past 5 years building money making blogs. after growing tired of the 9-5, commuting and never seeing my family i decided that i wanted to make some changes and launched my first blog. since then i have launched lots of successful niche blogs and after selling my survivalist blog i decided to teach other people how to do the same. latest posts by jamie (see all) interview – cameron james from anymail finder - march 26, 2020 the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews - march 25, 2020 how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old - march 19, 2020 categories wordpress post navigation how to add a contact form to your wordpress website or blog 2020 social media keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet leave a comment cancel reply commentname email save my name and email in this browser for the next time i comment. wp theme detector top plugins best affiliate wordpress plugins best wordpress membership plugins best social sharing plugins for wordpress best wordpress plugins for business websites best related posts plugins for wordpress best wordpress landing page plugins to boost conversions wordpress articles best affiliate wordpress plugins for 2020 best wordpress membership plugins for 2020 99 wordpress stats you have to see to believe – 2020 best month to month web hosting deals – 2020 how to register a domain name: everything you need to know the ultimate guide to the amazon associates program – 2020 how to add a contact form to your wordpress website or blog how to speed up wordpress 2020 wordpress website checklist for launching a new website why is wordpress free and what are the hidden costs? categories amazon fba blog traffic blogging business cheat sheets content marketing design tips email marketing graphic design interviews make money online marketing photography questions social tech buying guides web development website cms wordpress latest posts interview – cameron james from anymail finder the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old how to write a blog post – a guide for new & experienced bloggers best social media management tools 2020 best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub