wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials » how to put a stop to wordpress trackback spam how to put a stop to wordpress trackback spam last updated on april 15th, 2015 by editorial staff 151 shares share tweet share pin are you struggling with wordpress trackback spam? wordpress trackback spam can become a serious problem for many site owners. in this article, we will show you how to put a stop wordpress trackback spam. if your spam solution is not working for you, then one of the tricks below will surely help you get rid of trackback spam. where the wordpress trackback spam comes from? pingbacks and trackbacks spam is generated by spammers who use automated scripts to send millions of trackbacks to websites all over the world. just like comment spam, trackback spam is not directed to your site personally. what these spammers hope to achieve is that they could leave their links on a website where trackbacks are not monitored. most of these spam links point to illegal activities like selling drugs, running scams, distributing malicious code, etc. video tutorial subscribe to wpbeginner if you don’t like the video or need more instructions, then continue reading. how to completely get rid of trackback spam completely? the easiest and quickest way to deal with trackback spam is to completely turn it off in your wordpress settings. all you need to do is visit settings » discussion page and under the default article settings uncheck the box next to ‘allow link notifications from other blogs (pingbacks and trackbacks)’. this will disable trackback and pingback spam on your new articles. however you still need to disable trackbacks on existing wordpress posts. you can do so by following this tutorial on how to disable trackbacks and pings on existing posts. if you do not want to turn off trackbacks and pingbacks, then here is how you can combat trackback spam. akismet akismet is one of the two default plugins that come bundled with every wordpress site. the plugin actually connects your website to akismet anti-spam service. this is a massive spam filter monitoring millions of sites to catch spam comments and trackbacks. we use akismet on wpbeginner to monitor comments. it generally believed to be just a comment spam moderation tool, but it is also very effective against wordpress trackback spam. if you are not already using akismet, then you should activate it right away. see our guide on akismet and why you should start using it. simple trackback validation with topsy blocker simple trackback validation plugin allows you to stop trackback spam by running simple tests on each incoming trackback. at first it automatically blocks any trackbacks originating from topsy, which is a social search tool used for trackback spam. it then checks whether the trackback is actually originating from the site it claims to be from. lastly, it checks if an actual link to your site exists on the trackback source. hide trackbacks this plugin is not a spam protection plugin, but it provides a feature that some site owners might need. as the name suggests, it completely hides wordpress trackbacks and pingbacks from appearing in the comments on the front-end of your website. it is particularly useful for sites where hundreds of spam trackbacks get published accidentally. you can activate this plugin to hide all spam trackbacks from public and then go to comments section in wordpress admin area to delete all the trackbacks spam. that’s all we hope this article helped you block wordpress trackback spam. you may also want to take a look at these 12 vital tips and tools to combat comment spam in wordpress. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 151 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 6 commentsleave a reply yogipete says: aug 6, 2015 at 5:59 am thank you for all the wonderful advice that you share with us. i have learned so much since subscribing. i allways open your emails and will purchase some of the products you recommend. reply hood says: apr 21, 2015 at 2:07 pm or disable post requests completely via htaccess reply anton roder says: mar 26, 2015 at 11:14 am should have read this article before i started. my first comment ever on my site i got so excited, till i realized it’s some kind of spam. reply nijanthan vijayakumar says: mar 25, 2015 at 10:47 pm right article at the right time. thanks a lot. reply mary st. dennis says: mar 25, 2015 at 12:40 pm wouldn’t we want to get track backs from other sites? i would think so, but i’m not savvy enough to know how all this works. can you explain how this works? i linked to another post in one of mine.(with permission) and people have gone to her site several times. is this a trackback? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2015 at 1:29 pm yes, ideally you would want people to linkback to your post and you would want to show those links as trackbacks. however, the ration of spam trackbacks and genuine trackbacks shows that the feature alone is not worth the trouble. this is why most site owners choose to turn it off completely. adding a link into your post is not a trackback, it is a link. however, if the site you linked to is running on wordpress, and the site owner hasn’t turned off trackbacks, then they will receive your link as a trackback. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) visual composer coupon get 20% off on visual composer wordpress page builder plugin. 7theme coupon get 10% off on premium wordpress themes by 7theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.