home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to make your story more powerful with journaling learn to journal by claire deboer your journal can help you go deeper into your story! you know writing a journal develops your personal life. but do you know it can develop writing projects as well? many of us have childhood memories of spiral-bound diaries with a lock and key, but few have carried the habit of journaling into adulthood. why not? perhaps we undervalue journaling because we see it mainly as a tool for recording events. but journaling has the potential to help us grow – as people, and as writers. the power in writing your truth journaling is simply expressing yourself on the page. but it’s the way we journal that can be transformational. researchers such as dr. james w.pennebaker have found that writing our deepest thoughts and feelings in relation to events and circumstances in our lives leads to healing and positive change. when we write from a personal perspective, we usually do one of two things: we write about an event, detailing what happened, or we rant and rave about something or someone, without really coming to any conclusions or finding a resolution. but if we can write about our emotions around each detail of the event, expressing what happened and how it made us feel, our writing will propel us forward and enable us to look at our circumstances with a fresh perspective. the best thing about journaling is that there are no rules. forget grammar. forget perfect prose. your journal is for you and you alone. the following 5 journaling techniques are excellent ways to grow in your personal life as well as your writing. each is an exercise in expressive writing. 1. lists lists help us organize time, projects, and remember what we need to pick up at the grocery store. but the journal list is a little different. the idea behind it is to use repetition to help you focus on something you’re having difficulty with. first, pick a topic – preferably something for which you need to find a solution. for instance, you could begin with a question such as what do i need to know about a certain character in my book? next, list 100 possible answers to your question. write words or phrases as they come to mind. try not to pause or overthink it, just keep the pen moving. you may find you’re repeating yourself, not necessarily using the same words, but writing within certain themes. keep going – this is vital to the exercise. when you’ve reached 100, look at your list and categorize items according to theme. this should help you figure out which areas of your character need greater depth. 2. portraits the portrait technique is great for developing characters in a novel, especially oft-neglected minor characters who can bring a scene to life. a portrait is literally the description of a character. write about the way they look and behave, what you like and don’t like about them, what intrigues and irritates you about them. try to embody the essence of who they are. the fascinating thing with portraits is that as you describe your characters, you will see elements of yourself emerging within them. when we create characters, they are based on parts of ourselves, and when we examine character in others, we subconsciously look for the traits that mirror who we are. here’s a helpful exercise that involves two characters in conflict with each other. try writing a portrait of one character from the perspective of the other one. this will help you develop more nuanced characters. 3. mind mapping also called clustering or brainstorming, this is a wonderful creative tool to help you effectively access the subconscious mind. begin by thinking about what’s currently weighing heavily on your mind. this could be any aspect of your writing – the plot, a character, a scene. try to find the one word or phrase that’s causing you the most discomfort or fear. write the word in the middle of the page, circle it, and then draw a line to the next word you associate with it. for example, if i’m feeling overwhelmed trying to juggle a full-time job, family and writing a novel, my first word might be time, because that’s what i need more of in my life. my next word association could be friendships, because my friendships may be suffering due to my overloaded schedule. keep writing, circling and exploring. after a few minutes you may find your words have shifted to a new topic or a deeper level of emotion. when you’re done, look for words and phrases that seem to jump out of the jumble of circles and lines. these should offer you fresh insights, leading to possible solutions to your problem. 4. dialogue this is one of my favorite techniques for learning more about another person’s perspective. how often do we look at situation only from our own point of view? set up a dialogue between one character, and another character, object or emotion. what does your character need to say? what do you believe the other character, emotion or object would like to say to your character? write as though you they’re having a real conversation. it may feel awkward at first, but when you’re done, you will hopefully know more about the situation. you can also use dialogue to connect with parts of your character that are buried deep, such as the inner critic, or a younger self. this is especially useful when writing memoir. 5. letters writing letters to people who have played a significant role in your life is a great way to unravel your emotions about them. this strategy is often used after a death, when the bereaved person needs to release emotions and find closure. you can also try exchanging letters between characters to learn more about the dynamics of their relationship. if you’re writing memoir, writing a letter to your younger self or anyone who has strong emotional significance in your life is an enriching exercise. for a fiction novel, write a letter from an underdeveloped character to your protagonist. you’ll be amazed how getting to know that character better can bring a scene to life. pulling it all together these exercises are great starting points to guide you in your journaling practice, but the most important part of the process is to be honest with yourself. holding back from the page is tantamount to being silent in a conversation. writing down your thoughts and feelings, and processing them is the key to gaining a fresh perspective and moving away from feeling stuck. do you keep a journal? which techniques do you use to take you deeper into your story – or your life? tell me in the comments! tweet189 pin29 share141 359 shares related posts writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] by shalhavit-simcha cohen how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas by tal valante about the author claire deboer claire de boer writes and offers one-on-one mentoring at www.thegiftofwriting.com. she is a certified journal to the self® instructor. visit her blog to download the free ebook: why writing your story could be the most important thing you ever do. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >