start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising work smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) makeda waterman an experienced online media journalist blogs about work and career development. read full profile share pin it tweet share email are you challenged at work? do you regret career decisions? are you happy? if the answer to the questions leads to a negative feeling, it is time to determine next steps. many people settle for a career that no longer brings satisfaction. most will respond by stating, “i am surviving” if a colleague asks them “how’s work?” settling for a job to pay bills and maintain a lifestyle is stagnation. you can re-direct the journey of a career with confidence by taking control of future decisions. after all, you deserve to be live a happy life that will offer a work-life balance. let’s look at the reasons why you need a career change and how to choose a career for a more fulfilling life. table of contents how to know if you need a career change? physical signs mental signs are you sure you're not changing for the wrong reason? how a career change will change your life how to make a career change successfully bottom line more about career change how to know if you need a career change? the challenges of dissatisfaction in a career can have a negative impact on our mental health. as a result, our mental health can lead to the obvious appearance of stress, aging, weight gain and internal health issues. you deserve a career that will fulfill the inner desire of true happiness. here are common factors that it is time for you to change your career. physical signs are you aging since you started your job? do you have anxiety? what about work-related injuries? it feels amazing to receive a pay cheque, but you deserve to work in an environment that brings out the best of you. if the work environment is hazardous, speak to your boss about alternative options. in the case that colleagues or your boss take advantage of your kindness, feeling the anxiety of fear of losing your job because of a high-stress environment may not be right for you. mental signs one out of five americans has mental health issues, according to mental health america.[1] in most cases, it is related to stress. advertising i remember working at a job in a work environment where harassment was acceptable. i had to walk on eggshells to avoid crossing the line with colleagues. my friends started to notice the difference in that i seemed out of character. it was then that i knew that changing a career to freelancing was the right decision. here is a list of mental signs of workplace unhappiness: the tension in your neck difficulties with sleeping unable to concentrate high anxiety depression if you start to feel your self-esteem is diminishing, it is time to consider if working in a high-stress industry is for you. the truth is, this negative energy will be transferred to people in your life like friends and family. are you sure you’re not changing for the wrong reason? most people that feel they need a career are frustrated with their situation at work. do you really understand your current situation at work? the reason it is important to think about the work situation is some people decide to change career for factors that are insignificant. factors that can potentially change if the person works in a different department or new organization. here is a list of unimportant factors to think about before you decide to make the transition: desire for an increase of salary the desire for a higher income can persuade some to believe they are in the wrong career. the issue with this is more money requires more time in the office or taking on several positions at a time. at times, pursuing a high-income role can be the complete opposite of what one is expected. it is what happens when a colleague leaves a company to a new one and returns several years later. overnight decision let’s face it. we make overnight decisions when stressed out or disappointed with situations at work. the problem with a quick decision is the negative and positive points is overlooked. rejected for a promotion i have heard stories of managers that applied ten times for a position throughout a 5-year period. yes, it sounds to be a lengthy process, but at times, a promotion requires time. avoid changing a career if you do not see the results of a promotion currently. advertising bored at work think deeply about this point. if you work a job that is repetitive, it is normal to feel bored. you can spice it up by changing the appearance of your desk, socializing with new employees in a different department, joining a leadership committee at work or coming to work with enthusiasm. sometimes, all it takes is you to change jobs into a fun situation. a career change can take time, networking, education and the job search process can be a journey. here is a list of things to consider before making a final decision: how long have you worked in your career? what is the problem at work? do you work well with the team? do you receive recognition? can you consider working in a new department? if after reviewing your work situation and none of the above recommendations can help, then it’s time to make a career change. how a career change will change your life i have a friend that works in the medical industry. she was once a nurse working directly with patients in one of the top hospitals in her area. after five years, she started to internalize the issues with her patients to the point where she felt depressed after work hours. it impacted her relationship with her family and she almost lost herself. one day, she decided to wake up and take control of her destiny. she started applying for new medical jobs in the office. it meant working on medical documentation of patients which is not an ideal career based on what society expects a medical professional to perform. but she started to feel happier. it is a classic example of a person that was negatively impacted by issues at work, stayed in the same industry but changed careers. a career change can fulfill a lifelong dream, increase one’s self-esteem or revive the excitement for one’s work. you know a career change can be the right decision to make if you experience one or all of these: working in a negative workplace: don’t be discouraged. a negative workplace can be changed by working at a new organization. working with a difficult boss: the challenges of working with a difficult boss can be stressful. all it takes is communication. you can address the issue directly with a manager professionally and respectfully. feeling lost about what you do: most people stay at their jobs and settle for mediocrity because of the fear of failure or the unknown. the rise to success often comes with working a tedious role or stepping outside of one’s comfort zone. if you fear the idea of being involved in activities that are new, remember that life is short. mediocrity will only continue to make you feel as if life is passing you by. how to make a career change successfully the ultimate key to success is to go through a career transition step by step to avoid making the wrong decision. 1. write a career plan a career plan has a dead line for action steps that includes taking new courses, learning a new language, networking or improving issues at work.[2] a career plan should be kept in your wallet because it will motivate you to keep pursuing the role. advertising you can learn how to set your career plan here. 2. weigh your options if you have a degree in accounting, write down five positions in this industry of interest. the good news is diplomas and degrees can be used to a variety of roles to choose. you don’t have to stick to what society holds a top job. in the end, choosing the right role that will make you happy is priceless. 3. be real about the pros and cons it is time to be honest about strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats in the job market that are impacting the current situation. a swot analysis of a career can include:[3] economic factors direct competition: is this role in high demand? location: do you need to move? if the goal is to work in tech and living in cincinnati is not realistic, consider moving to san francisco. achievements: to stand out from the competition achievements like awards, committee involvement, freelance work or volunteering is a recipe for success. education: do you need to go back to school? education can be expensive. however, online courses, webinars or self-study is an option. a career blueprint is the first step to creating realistic goals. a person without goals will be disappointed without a clear direction of what to do next. 4. find a mentor or career coach a mentor or a career coach that works in the desired position can share the pros and cons of working in the role. here is a list of questions to ask a mentor: what is required to be successful in the role? what certification or educational development is needed? what are the challenges of the role? is there potential for career advancement? a chat at a coffee shop with a mentor can change your mind about the desire for a career change. find out how to pick a good mentor for yourself in this article: how to find a mentor that will help you succeed advertising 5. research salary some people decide to change careers for a role that pays less or perks like benefits to make up for the difference in previous to potential salary. it can reveal the cities throughout the country that offer a higher salary for those that have an interest in relocating for work. 6. be realistic if your goal is to move up into an executive position, it is time to be honest about where you are in your career. for example, if boardroom meetings, high-level discussions about financials or attending weekly networking events are boring, an executive role may not be right for you. if you are an introvert and working with people every day is nerve wrecking, you need to reconsider a job in sales. ask yourself if you can work in this role for the next five years of your life. if other benefits that come with the role are enticing, other roles are fit that will make you happy. 7. volunteer first a person that wants to become a manager should take on volunteer opportunities to experience the reality of the position. becoming a committee member to pursue a presidential opportunity can provide a perspective on leadership, maintaining a budget and public speaking. volunteer in a role until you are certain that it is the right opportunity. 8. prepare your career tools i recommend asking a boss, colleague or mentor for career tools. if you prefer professional assistance, you can seek out resume writing assistance. here is a list of things to consider when preparing career tools: online search: search your name online to see what shows up. i recommend searching images that are on facebook, twitter, snapchat or other sites on a personal account. the last thing you want to realize is the job search is unsuccessful because there is unprofessional content you posted online. be linkedin ready: recruiters conduct a linkedin search to see if the work experience is the same on a resume. remember to change the wording on linkedin from the resume, or it will appear there was no effort put into creating the profile. portfolio: a portfolio of work is recommended for people that work in the arts, writing, graphic design and other fields. i recommend a portfolio online and one that is available in hand when attending job interviews or networking meetups. cover letter: a good cover writer will always impress your potential employers. here’s how to write a killer cover letter that stands out from others. bottom line it takes time to move towards a new career. pay attention to the physical and mental signs to maintain your health. you deserve to work in happiness and come home stress-free. if you avoid the common mistakes people make, you will find a job and discover the role in a career field that is the best fit with your skillsets. master these action steps and changing career paths will be on your terms to make the best decision for your future. more about career change how to start over and reboot your life when it seems too late how to make a career change at 40 and stop feeling stagnant at work why a career change at 50 is a great opportunity & how to make it work featured photo credit: pexels via pexels.com reference [1] ^ mental health america: the state of mental health in america [2] ^ mit global education & career development: make a career plan [3] ^ creately: personal swot analysis to assess and improve yourself share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to achieve a realistic work life balance how to make a career change at 50 for great opportunities how to make a career change at 40 and get unstuck advertising advertising more by this author makeda waterman an experienced online media journalist blogs about work and career development. how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author makeda waterman an experienced online media journalist blogs about work and career development. how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to start over and reboot your life when it seems too late how to find a mentor that will help you succeed i’ve read more than 500 cover letters and here’s what i’ve spotted how to become successful 10 times easier: don’t focus on improving your faults advertising advertising work smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) brian lee chief of product management at lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email taking your work to the next level means setting and keeping career goals. a career goal is a targeted objective that explains what you want your ultimate profession to be. defining career goals is a critical step to achieving success. you need to know where you’re going in order to get there. knowing what your career goals are isn’t just important for you–it’s important for potential employers too. the relationship between an employer and an employee works best when your goals for the future and their goals align. saying, “oh, i don’t know. i’ll do anything,” makes you seem indecisive, and opens you up to taking on ill-fitting tasks that won’t lead you to your dream life. career goal templates’ one-size-fits-all approach won’t consider your unique goals and experiences. they won’t help you stand out, and they may not reflect your full potential. in this article, i’ll help you to define your career goals with smart goal framework, and will provide you with a list of examples goals for work and career. table of contents how to define your career goal with smart why you need an individual development plan 40 examples of goals for work & career for changing a job for switching career path for getting a promotion for acing a job interview career goal setting faqs summary more tips about setting work goals how to define your career goal with smart instead of relying on a generalized framework to explain your vision, use a tried-and-true goal-setting model. smart is an acronym for “specific, measurable, action-oriented, realistic with timelines.”[1] the smart framework demystifies goals by breaking them into smaller steps. helpful hints when setting smart career goals: advertising start with short-term goals first. work on your short-term goals, and then progress the long-term interests.[2] short-term goals are those things which take 1-3 years to complete. long-term goals take 3-5 years to do. as you succeed in your short-term goals, that success should feed into accomplishing your long-term goals. be specific, but don’t overdo it. you need to define your career goals, but if you make them too specific, then they become unattainable. instead of saying, “i want to be the next ceo of apple, where i’ll create a billion-dollar product,” try something like, “my goal is to be the ceo of a successful company.” get clear on how you’re going to reach your goals. you should be able to explain the actions you’ll take to advance your career. if you can’t explain the steps, then you need to break your goal down into more manageable chunks. don’t be self-centered. your work should not only help you advance, but it should also support the goals of your employer. if your goals differ too much, then it might be a sign that the job you’ve taken isn’t a good fit. if you want to learn more about setting smart goals, watch the video below to learn how you can set smart career goals. after you’re clear on how to set smart goals, you can use this framework to tackle other aspects of your work. for instance, you might set smart goals to improve your performance review, look for a new job, or shift your focus to a different career. we’ll cover examples of ways to use smart goals to meet short-term career goals in the next section. why you need an individual development plan setting goals is one part of the larger formula for success. you may know what you want to do, but you also have to figure out what skills you have, what you lack, and where your greatest strengths and weaknesses are. one of the best ways to understand your capabilities is by using the science careers individual development plan skills assessment. it’s free, and all you need to do is register an account and take a few assessments. advertising these assessments will help you determine if your career goals are realistic. you’ll come away with a better understanding of your unique talents and skill-sets. you may decide to change some of your career goals or alter your timeline based on what you learn. 40 examples of goals for work & career all this talk of goal-setting and self-assessment may sound great in theory, but perhaps you need some inspiration to figure out what your goals should be. for changing a job attend more networking events and make new contacts. achieve a promotion to __________ position. get a raise. plan and take a vacation this year. agree to take on new responsibilities. develop meaningful relationships with your coworkers and clients. ask for feedback on a regular basis. learn how to say, “no,” when you are asked to take on too much. delegate tasks that you no longer need to be responsible for. strive to be in a leadership role in __ number of years. for switching career path pick up and learn a new skill. find a mentor. become a volunteer in the field that interests you. commit to getting training or going back to school. read the most recent books related to your field. decide whether you are happy with your work-life balance and make changes if necessary. [3] plan what steps you need to take to change careers.[4] compile a list of people who could be character references or submit recommendations. commit to making __ number of new contacts in the field this year. create a financial plan. for getting a promotion reduce business expenses by a certain percentage. stop micromanaging your team members. become a mentor. brainstorm ways that you could improve your productivity and efficiency at work seek a new training opportunity to address a weakness.[5] find a way to organize your work space.[6] seek feedback from a boss or trusted coworker every week/ month/ quarter. become a better communicator. find new ways to be a team player. learn how to reduce work hours without compromising productivity. for acing a job interview identify personal boundaries at work and know what you should do to make your day more productive and manageable. identify steps to create a professional image for yourself. go after the career of your dreams to find work that does not feel like a job. look for a place to pursue your interest and apply your knowledge and skills. find a new way to collaborate with experts in your field. identify opportunities to observe others working in the career you want. become more creative and break out of your comfort zone. ask to be trained more relevant skills for your work. ask for opportunities to explore the field and widen your horizon set your eye on a specific award at work and go for it. career goal setting faqs i’m sure you still have some questions about setting your own career goals, so here i’m listing out the most commonly asked questions about career goals. 1. what if i’m not sure what i want my career to be? if you’re uncertain, be honest about it. let the employer know as much as you know about what you want to do. express your willingness to use your strengths to contribute to the company. when you take this approach, back up your claim with some examples. if you’re not even sure where to begin with your career, check out this guide: how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising 2. is it okay to lie about my career goals? lying to potential employers is bound to end in disaster. in the interview, a lie can make you look foolish because you won’t know how to answer follow up questions. even if you think your career goal may not precisely align with the employer’s expectations for a long-term hire, be open and honest. there’s probably more common ground than they realize, and it’s up to you to bridge any gaps in expectations. being honest and explaining these connections shows your employer that you’ve put a lot of thought into this application. you aren’t just telling them what they want to hear. 3. is it better to have an ambitious goal, or should i play it safe? you should have a goal that challenges you, but smart goals are always reasonable. if you put forth a goal that is way beyond your capabilities, you will seem naive. making your goals too easy shows a lack of motivation. employers want new hires who are able to self-reflect and are willing to take on challenges. 4. can i have several career goals? it’s best to have one clearly-defined career goal and stick with it. (of course, you can still have goals in other areas of your life.) having a single career goal shows that you’re capable of focusing, and it shows that you like to accomplish what you set out to do. advertising on the other hand, you might have multiple related career goals. this could mean that you have short-term goals that dovetail into your ultimate long-term career goal. you might also have several smaller goals that feed into a single purpose. for example, if you want to become a lawyer, you might become a paralegal and attend law school at the same time. if you want to be a school administrator, you might have initial goals of being a classroom teacher and studying education policy. in both cases, these temporary jobs and the extra education help you reach your ultimate goal. summary you’ll have to devote some time to setting career goals, but you’ll be so much more successful with some direction. remember to: set smart goals. smart goals are specific, measurable, action-oriented, and realistic with timelines. when you set goals with these things in mind, you are likely to achieve the outcomes you want. have short-term and long-term goals. short-term career goals can be completed in 1-3 years, while long-term goals will take 3-5 years to finish. your short-term goals should set you up to accomplish your long-term goals. assess your capabilities by coming up with an individual development plan. knowing how to set goals won’t help you if you don’t know yourself. understand what your strengths and weaknesses are by taking some self-assessments. choose goals that are appropriate to your ultimate aims. your career goals should be relevant to one another. if they aren’t, then you may need to narrow your focus. your goals should match the type of job that you want and the quality of life that you want to lead. be clear about your goals with potential employers. always be honest with potential employers about what you want to do with your life. if your goals differ from the company’s objectives, find a way bridge the gap between what you want for yourself and what your employer expects. by doing goal-setting work now, you’ll be able to make conscious choices on your career path. you can always adjust your plan if things change for you, but the key is to give yourself a road map for success. more tips about setting work goals 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 15 personal goals for work to make you stand out from your coworkers how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals featured photo credit: tyler franta via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ achievit: the history and evolution of smart goals [2] ^ she knows: career planning: smart goals [3] ^ career addict: 13 examples of achievable career goals [4] ^ job interview site.com: career goals: examples of career goals and objectives [5] ^ science: goal-setting strategies for scientific and career success [6] ^ udemy: career goal examples: top 6 achievable career goals share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 15 personal goals for work to help you succeed how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising advertising more by this author brian lee chief of product management at lifehack how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) how to answer behavioral based interview questions smartly 7 best project management apps to boost productivity 100 incredible life hacks that make life so much easier 10 best new products that people don’t know about advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.