wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to bulk convert classic blocks to gutenberg in wordpress how to bulk convert classic blocks to gutenberg in wordpress last updated on march 11th, 2020 by editorial staff 94 shares share tweet share pin several of our readers have asked how to convert old wordpress post content into the new gutenberg (block) format in wordpress. after you update to any version above wordpress 5.0, your older post and page content will show up inside a classic block in the new wordpress content editor. to convert the content into individual blocks, you would need to edit each post and page separately. if you have dozens or hundreds of posts, then this can take a lot of time. thankfully, there’s a bulk convert option. in this article, we will show you how to bulk convert classic blocks to individual gutenberg blocks in wordpress. understanding the “classic” block if you installed wordpress before version 5.0 came out, the posts and pages you created used the old or classic editor. when you upgrade wordpress to version 5.0 or later, all your old posts and pages still need to be editable. this means that wordpress automatically places the content for those posts and pages inside a single “classic” block: this makes sure that your old posts and pages are still editable, and they look the same on the front-end of your website even if you don’t convert the content into individual blocks. however, if you want you can convert them from a single classic block into the new multi-block format used by the wordpress block editor. the classic block contains all the post content, such as images, embeds, text, and more. you can go to any of the old posts on your site to see how the classic block looks. if you select the block by clicking on it, you can see the block type. this appears just above the block in the top left-hand corner and also in the block settings on the right-hand side. you can edit the content in the classic block. most users, though, will want to update their old posts to the new block format for ease of editing. we covered this process in detail in our article on how to update your old wordpress posts with the gutenberg block editor, but let’s quickly recap. to convert an individual classic block into new gutenberg blocks, you can click the ‘more options’ button (three dots in a vertical line), and then click ‘convert to blocks’. your post will then be converted into separate blocks. as you can see, the text and images have been separated here. the text is in the new ‘paragraph’ block. this process is quick and straightforward for a single post. however, wordpress doesn’t have a built-in way to do it automatically for every post. if you want to switch a lot of posts to the new gutenberg block format at once, then you’ll need a bulk converter plugin. bulk convert classic block into gutenberg blocks first, you need to install and activate the bulk block converter plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, go to tools » block conversion in your wordpress dashboard. you’ll see the following screen: tip: make sure you create a complete wordpress backup of your site before using the bulk block converter. you cannot undo the conversion once it’s taken place. to start, click the ‘scan content’ button and the converter will find all your content that’s ready for conversion. note: posts that use a mix of classic blocks and other blocks won’t be picked up by the converter. if you want to convert all the content on your site at once, simply click the large ‘bulk convert all’ button at the top of the screen. you’ll see a warning like this. go ahead and click ‘ok’ to continue. if you don’t want to convert everything at once, that’s fine too. you can filter the list by ‘post type’ (posts or pages). you can also switch to the ‘published’ or ‘drafts’ lists to see only that set of posts. you can select everything on your list by clicking the checkbox to the left of ‘title’. we’ll filter our list to show pages, not posts, and then select all of them: you can even select individual posts and pages by clicking on the checkbox to the left of their title. note that if you use this method, you won’t see the warning before the conversion takes place. once each piece of content is converted, you’ll see ‘converted’ listed next to it in the table. important tip about shortcodes one snag you might run into is that the bulk block conversion tool doesn’t convert shortcodes. it’ll create a shortcode block for you, but you’ll need to put the shortcode itself back in manually. if you’re using shortcodes, then make sure you note them down before running the bulk converter. otherwise, it could take a while to figure out which shortcodes you need to put back and where to place them. we hope this article helped you learn how to bulk convert classic blocks to gutenberg in wordpress. you may also want to see our comparison of the best wordpress drag & drop page builders and the best wordpress contact form plugins. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 94 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to start your own podcast (step by step) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 2 commentsleave a reply sieglinde anderson says: mar 11, 2020 at 12:18 pm why would i want to convert all my old pages and posts to the gutenberg version? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 12, 2020 at 8:40 am to give yourself the editing tools that come with the new blocks reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.