menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: cooking, food & drink, meat, recipes, travel & leisure guest contributor • november 20, 2012 last updated: november 9, 2018 how to make the best beef jerky in the world editor’s note: this is an excerpt from tim ferriss‘ new book, the four hour chef. an introduction to dehydrating food dehydration is all about removing water from food. doing this helps to preserve the food (bacteria need water) and concentrate ﬂavor. it’s a common misconception that you need heat to dehydrate food. but low humidity, not heat, is the driving force behind dehydration. warming the air surrounding the food helps keep it dry, but if the air doesn’t move, the food will stay wet. so when dehydrating food in the kitchen, make certain that air can freely circulate around it. sidenote: you can achieve the same preservation of dehydration by leaving the water in food but making it unavailable to bacteria. just add substances like sugar and salt, which bind to water molecules and lock them away. lox (salt-cured salmon) and salted butter are safe to keep at room temperature for this reason—but unsalted butter is not! the best jerky in the world sometimes a survival skill isn’t just about preparing for hard times. six-time new york times best-selling author neil strauss learned this while writing about apocalypse-proofing your life in his book emergency. yes, learning to preserve meat was useful. but learning to flavor meat was an art. in search of the perfect marinade, he polled everyone: hard-core survivalists, friends’ grandfathers, chefs, and beyond. then he split-tested the best and simplest recipes that didn’t require a smoker or a food dehydrator. he submerged near-identical meat slices into 2–5 containers of marinade at a time. sometimes he tested a different brand or amount of teriyaki sauce, and other times he added a random ingredient like truffle oil or mustard. it became something of an obsession. the following recipe is what won all the taste tests. this recipe is intended for home cooking, not for the wilderness, but it can be adapted for the wild. hands-on time 15 minutes total time 15 minutes plus 24 hours for marinating and up to 24 hours for drying and cooling gear knife large container with lid aluminum foil wooden or plastic serving spoon ingredients (to make 2.3kg (5lb)) 2 kg (5 lb) lean brisket 470 ml (2 c) kikkoman soy sauce 470 ml (2 c) worcestershire sauce (neil likes lea & perrins) 470 ml (2 c) thick, flavorful teriyaki sauce (kikkoman takumi garlic & green onion or, soy vay veri veri teriyaki) 240 ml (1 c) liquid smoke (it’s not always easy to find, so any brand will do) 120 ml (1/2 c) karo dark corn syrup (you can also try blackstrap molasses) 3t garlic powder 3t onion powder 3t sesame seeds 3t brown sugar 1t cayenne pepper prep 00 put the meat in the freezer for an hour to make slicing easier. slice meat with the grain as thin as possible (less than 0.6 cm or 1⁄4″). if you’re lazy or not great with the knife, call the butcher ahead of time and ask him to slice 2 kg (5 lb) of lean brisket at this thickness. the leaner the meat, the better and longer-lasting the jerky. pickup 00 in a large container, mix the 470 ml (2 c) soy sauce, 470 ml (2 c) worcestershire sauce, 470 ml (2 c) teriyaki sauce, 240 ml (1 c) liquid smoke, and 120 ml (1/2 c) dark corn syrup. 01 add the 3 t garlic powder, 3 t onion powder, 3 t sesame seeds, and 3 t brown sugar. throw in 1 t of cayenne pepper. add more if you like it spicy, but a little goes a long way. note: cayenne pepper is also great for putting on a cut to stop bleeding, and it doesn’t sting. make sure your meat is completely submerged in the marinade. 02 stir well, then drop your meat into the marinade. your meat should be fully submerged. 03 optional: sometimes i’ll take a smaller container and play with a slightly different marinade, adding in different oils, spices, and notes (even soda, wine, or beer) to the same base marinade. i’ll add in a little of the sliced meat for a batch of experimental jerky. 04 close or cover the container(s), then leave in the refrigerator for at least 24 hours. 05 once the meat is well marinated, it’s time to dry it: cover the bottom of your oven with aluminum foil. things will get mess the higher the racks are placed in the oven, the better. 06 place the meat on the racks of your oven, one next to the other (see pic above). the higher the racks are placed in the oven, the better. if you like, you can put the meat on aluminum foil or hardware cloth. 07 set your oven temperature to 70°c (160°f), or 80°c (180°f) if you’re in a rush. crack open the oven door by sticking a wooden or plastic serving spoon in the top of the door. steve rinella uses a crunched beer can. the goal is to dry the meat but avoid cooking it. 08 let it dry for 3 hours, then turn over the jerky. after another 3 hours, it should be done. the total time, however, is dependent on the thickness of the meat and the temperature of the oven. the jerky is done when it’s dry enough that you can rip off a piece easily, but before it snaps when you bend it. 09 leave meat out in the air to cool. it is now ready to eat. the longer you leave it out to cool, the drier it will get. after no longer than 24 hours, store it in sealed ziploc bags. without refrigeration, it will be good for 4–6 months. have any other jerky-making tips? share them with us in the comments! __________________ available now, the four hour chef by tim ferriss isn’t just a cookbook (though, you’ll find plenty of recipes in it like this one for beef jerky). it’s a guide on how to learn anything (like cooking) as quickly as possible using a simple system ferriss has designed to master a wide range of skills. related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// the aom guide to staying at home (without being bored out of your mind) the lucky charms of 7 famous men make this dark guinness bread for st. patrick’s day podcast #590: the creation of sherlock holmes view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy