wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how to choose the best blogging platform in 2020 (compared) how to choose the best blogging platform in 2020 (compared) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 1.9k shares share tweet share pin are you looking to start your own blog, but can’t figure out how to choose the best blogging platform? it’s a tough choice since there are several different blogging platforms out there. how do you find out which one is right for you? in this article, we’ll help you choose the best blogging platform by going over the pros and cons of the most popular blogging sites. here are the popular blogging platforms we’ll be comparing in this article. if you’re interested in a particular platform, you can click the link to skip ahead in the article. wordpress.org constant contact website builder gator wordpress.com blogger tumblr medium squarespace wix ghost choosing the best blogging platform – what to look for? before diving in the list, it is helpful to know what you’re looking for in a blogging platform. as a beginner, you’ll want a blogging platform that’s easy to set up, has a low learning curve, and doesn’t require any coding skills. you’ll also need to think about what kind of blog you want to create, now and in the future. as your blog grows, you may want to change the look of your site and add more features for your growing audience. that means it’s important to choose a blogging platform that’s flexible, with room to grow. starting off with the wrong platform can make it very difficult to switch later on. lastly, even if you don’t have plans to make money blogging right now, it’s smart to make sure you have the option to do so in the future. with all that in mind, let’s compare the best blogging platforms for beginners. 1. wordpress.org wordpress.org is the world’s most popular blogging software. started in 2003, wordpress now powers more than 30% of all websites on the internet. note: it’s easy to confuse wordpress.org with wordpress.com, which is a blog hosting service mentioned later in this list. see our guide on the difference between wordpress.org and wordpress.com. wordpress.org is an open source free blogging platform that allows you to build your website or blog within minutes. it is a self-hosted solution which means that you will need to sign up with a wordpress hosting provider. wordpress is a great option if you want to have full control over your blog’s future. pros wordpress.org gives you control over every aspect of your website. you can grow your blog and add extra features like forums, online store, and paid membership. this makes wordpress the best blogging platform to make money. there are thousands of free themes available for wordpress. this allows you to create a beautiful website that stands apart from the crowd. you also get access to more than 54,000 free plugins. these plugins are like apps for your wordpress blog that allow you to add features like contact forms, galleries, etc. wordpress is search engine friendly. you can easily create seo friendly urls, categories, and tags for your posts. plus, there’re a good number of great seo plugins for additional features. cons managing your own website comes with a bit of a learning curve. you will have to manage your own backups and security. pricing wordpress software is free, but you’ll need to have a domain name (about $14.99/year) and hosting (usually starting from $7.99/month). you need a domain name and web hosting for starting any type of website. wpbeginner users can get started for only $2.75 per month with bluehost, an official wordpress recommended hosting provider. they are offering our users 60% off on web hosting and a free domain name. see our guide on how to start a wordpress blog for complete step by step instructions. 2. constant contact website builder constant contact website builder is an intelligent a.i. powered website builder that allows you to create a free blog, business website, and even an online store within minutes. you can start with their large templates collection and customize your website design using an easy to use drag and drop interface. you also get access to other helpful tools such as a custom logo maker, professional stock photo library of over 550,000 images, and a whole lot more. pros easy-to-use drag and drop website builder with no technical skills required. quick and easy setup, since constant contact will host your website for you. very generous free plan that allows you to try out the service and even build an online store before buying. free domain and free ssl certificate is included with all paid plans. cons the developer ecosystem is small, so there aren’t as many third party plugins like wordpress. limited integration with third party platforms. exporting your site from constant contact website builder to another platform is difficult. pricing constant contact website builder offers a very generous free plan that allows you to create a blog, business website, and even an online ecommerce store. you can upgrade to the starter plan for $10 per month which gives you access to a free custom domain name, free ssl certificate, and other powerful platform features along with phone based support which is a big plus considering most other website builders don’t offer phone support. the business plan which costs $20 per month gives you access to advanced ecommerce related features. if you’re a small business who don’t want to use wordpress, then constant contact is the next best choice considering everything you get for the price. 3. gator by hostgator gator is a website builder and blogging platform created by hostgator, the popular web hosting company that we use to host the wpbeginner website. gator offers a drag & drop tool that you can use to build any type of website including blogs, business sites, and even an online store. it’s important that you don’t confuse the gator builder with hostgator website hosting. you can use hostgator hosting service to start a wordpress blog like we have done. however if you are looking for a non-wordpress all-in-one blog platform and hosting solution, then gator is the perfect option. pros easy drag and drop builder to customize your blog & website design. quick setup – no technical hassle. backups, performance, and security is all handled by hostgator (no headaches). free domain and ssl certificate is included in all plans. can easily add an online store to your blog with just a few clicks. cons there is no free account, but they do have a 45-day money back guarantee. ecommerce features are restricted to higher plans only. limited number of apps and extensions. pricing wpbeginner users get 55% off on all gator builder plans. the starter plan costs $3.46/month and it comes with all the features you need to start a successful blog including a free domain and ssl certificate. you just need to make sure to use our gator website builder coupon code: wpbeginner to get 55% off. 4. wordpress.com wordpress.com is a blog hosting service offered by automattic, a company created by wordpress.org co-founder matt mullenweg. wordpress.com offers a basic blog hosting service for free. you can purchase additional options like a custom domain name, additional storage, and other premium services. started in 2005 with a goal to bring wordpress experience to a larger audience, wordpress.com is a good blogging site for users who don’t want the advanced features of self-hosted wordpress. pros no setup required. easy to use and manage. it’s completely free if you are happy with a wordpress.com subdomain. your free website name looks like this: https://example.wordpress.com. cons limited options to extend your site. you cannot use custom themes and plugins for customizing your blog. you cannot run advertisements on your blog. instead, wordpress.com will show their ads on your free website. you do not own your blog, and wordpress.com can suspend your account if they find you are violating their terms of service. pricing the basic wordpress.com account is free, but it will have wordpress.com ads and branding. you can upgrade to their personal plan for $4/month (billed yearly) to remove wordpress.com logo and advertising from your website. you also get a custom domain (such as www.yoursite.com). for $8/month (billed yearly) you can get additional design tools and extra storage. because of the similarity in names, beginners often start with wordpress.com thinking they are getting the powerful wordpress.org software. after seeing the limitations, users often end up switching from wordpress.com to wordpress.org to have more features and control over their website. 5. blogger blogger is a free blogging service by google. it offers a quick and easy way to create a blog for non-tech-savvy users. blogger is one of the earliest blogging platforms in existence. it was first launched in 1999 by pyra labs. later in 2003, google acquired blogger and redesigned it as the product we know today. all you need is a google account to start a free blog on blogger. pros blogger is free. it’s easy to use and manage without any technical skills. has the added advantage of google’s robust secure platform and reliability. cons you’re limited to basic blogging tools, and can’t add new features as your blog grows in popularity. design options are limited, with fewer templates available. third party templates for blogger are often low quality. blogger does not receive frequent updates or new features. google can suspend your blog at any time, or even cancel the blogger service altogether. (they have a history of abandoning projects without warning, such as feedburner.) for more pros and cons of blogger, see our comparison of wordpress vs blogger (pros and cons). some users start out with blogger because it’s free, but eventually as their blog grows, they end up switching from blogger to wordpress to get more features and control over their website. pricing blogger is free with a blogger subdomain like https://example.blogspot.com. if you want to use a custom domain, you need to buy from a third-party domain registrar. 6. tumblr tumblr is a little different than other blogging platforms. it is a microblogging platform with social networking features including following other blogs, reblogging, built-in sharing tools, and more. pros tumblr is free with a tumblr subdomain like https://example.tumblr.com. you can also connect a premium custom domain name. it is very easy to set up and use. it has an integrated social media component. as a microblogging tool, tumblr makes it easy to quickly blog videos, gifs, images, and audio formats. cons tumblr comes with a limited set of features that you cannot extend as your blog grows. there are many themes available for tumblr, but they can’t offer additional features. backing up your tumblr blog or importing it to other platforms is difficult (see our guide on how to move from tumblr to wordpress). pricing tumblr is free to use. you can use a custom domain (purchased separately) for your tumblr blog, and there are also third-party themes and apps available to purchase. 7. medium launched in 2012, medium has grown into a community of writers, bloggers, journalists, and experts. it is an easy-to-use blogging platform with limited social networking features. medium works much like a social networking site where you can create an account and start publishing your articles. after you sign up, you’ll have a profile address like this: https://medium.com/@yourname. but you cannot use your own domain. pros medium is easy to use, with no setup required and no coding skills needed. it allows you to reach an existing online community of people of similar interests. you can focus solely on writing, instead of designing a website. cons features are very limited in terms of design or building a brand. medium owns your audience, so losing your blog means losing all your followers. you cannot use your own domain name. you’ll simply get a profile page like in facebook, e.g. https://medium.com/@yourname. you cannot run your own ads to make money. for more detailed comparison, see our guide on wordpress vs medium – which one is better?. pricing medium is free to use. while the platform looks attractive at first, the lack of monetization and control leads to most people switching from medium to wordpress. 8. squarespace squarespace is a website building service that allows you to create beautiful websites using easy drag and drop tools. it focuses on small business owners who are looking for an easy way to create an online presence. started in 2003, squarespace currently powers millions of websites online. pros squarespace is simple and easy to use for beginners who aren’t very tech-savvy. it has beautiful professionally designed templates. it separately offers domain name with ssl/https and ecommerce stores. cons squarespace is limited to the features built into their proprietary platform. integrations are limited to a select few services and tools. see our guide on wordpress vs squarespace for a more detailed comparison. pricing squarespace has different pricing plans for websites and online stores. pricing for their personal website plan starts at $16/month, or $12/month if you pay for the year in advance. for the business plan, pricing starts at $26/month, or $18/month billed annually. whereas pricing for online stores starts from $26/month and up to $40/month. often users end up switching from squarespace to wordpress to minimize their expenses and add more features on their websites. 9. wix wix is a hosted platform to build websites. it offers a solution for small businesses to build a website using drag and drop tools. you can also add a blog to your website by adding the wix blog app. wix.com was founded in 2006 as a platform where anyone could create their own stunning website with no coding skills required. it has currently over 110 million users across the globe. pros you can customize your site using dozens of templates and third party apps. build your site with easy drag and drop tools; no coding skills required. setup is quick and easy. cons the free account is limited and shows wix branding and ads on your site. free third party apps are limited. once you choose a template you cannot change it. ecommerce features are limited to paid plans, and even those features are limited. blog features do not match up to the other platforms in the list. see our article on wix vs wordpress for a detailed comparison of the two platforms. pricing the basic wix website builder is free. with a free wix account, you’ll get a wix subdomain that looks like this: https://username.wixsite.com/example. however, you can add a custom domain for $4.50/month. their premium plans start from $8.50/month and go up to $24.50/month. 10. ghost ghost is a minimalist blogging platform with features entirely focused on writing blog posts. started in 2013, ghost is available as a hosted platform and as a software that you can install / host yourself. we’ll take a look at both options. pros focused on blogging and writing. clean, clutter-free, and intuitive user interface. written in javascript, so it’s super fast. no setup required for the hosted version. cons not easy to customize with apps. the simplified user interface means options are very limited. not enough themes to change appearance of your site. complicated setup if you install it yourself. take a look at our comparison of wordpress vs ghost for more details on the topic. pricing the self-hosted version needs a custom domain (about $14.99/year) and web hosting (starting from about $7.99/month). pricing for the hosted version starts at $29/month for 2 staff users with a 100k page view limit. unless you buy a custom domain from a third-party domain registrar, your blog will be a ghost subdomain ending with ghost.io. our pick for the best blogging platform we believe that wordpress.org outperforms all other blogging sites. it is powerful, easy to use, affordable, and the most flexible of all available blogging platforms. here are all the reasons why you should use wordpress. to help you start your own wordpress site, we have created a complete guide on how to start a blog in 7 easy steps. if you need help, then wpbeginner’s team of experts can even help setup your blog for free. learn more about our free wordpress blog setup service. if you’re looking for a wordpress alternative, then our second choice for the best blogging platform would be constant contact website builder. their free a.i powered drag & drop website builder makes it easy to build any type of website from blog to business website to an online store. we hope this article helped you choose the best blogging platform for your next blog. you may also want to see our guide on 27 proven tips to increase your blog traffic. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.9k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 177 commentsleave a reply e luis de la rosa says: mar 26, 2020 at 3:21 pm this was a very helpful and informative article! i was just curious about which platform you would consider to be the best free alternative to wordpress.org. i would love to eventually use it but for now my finances don’t really allow for too much more. thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 27, 2020 at 8:40 am for a starting point, you can look at wordpress.com as they are using wordpress but with more restrictions reply smishhra says: feb 6, 2020 at 9:31 pm very informative post,really liked this post… thanks for sharing. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 7, 2020 at 8:43 am you’re welcome, glad you found our guide informative reply s mishra says: feb 6, 2020 at 9:30 pm thank you for this wonderful & helpful post. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 7, 2020 at 8:43 am you’re welcome, glad our guide was helpful reply sanjay mishra says: feb 6, 2020 at 9:29 pm i just want to say thanks for your wonderful post… reply wpbeginner support says: feb 7, 2020 at 8:44 am you’re welcome, glad you liked our post reply danny says: jan 29, 2020 at 6:00 am hi, thanks for sharing the information. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 29, 2020 at 8:32 am you’re welcome reply botree digital says: jan 2, 2020 at 1:18 am thanks for sharing this. it will help us to publish content. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 2, 2020 at 10:37 am glad you found our content helpful reply citcchandigarh says: oct 29, 2019 at 4:08 am thank you for this article. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 29, 2019 at 10:05 am you’re welcome reply george says: oct 21, 2019 at 6:04 am great blog. thanks for sharing. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 21, 2019 at 10:28 am thank you and you’re welcome reply robin says: oct 20, 2019 at 10:32 am very good porst. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 21, 2019 at 10:33 am thank you reply eemu says: oct 16, 2019 at 3:24 am amazing blog. its very useful. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 16, 2019 at 10:18 am thank you, glad you found our content helpful reply kara says: oct 3, 2019 at 1:05 am so…. clearly this is geared toward wp. however, i find wp extremely clunky and difficult to make my blog as visually appealing as i would like. i don’t get it, i love the ease of drag and drop (i took coding classes in college, many moons ago) not interested in going back. i absolutely love wix for my business sites… but blogging is rough on that. i want the best of both worlds. tips? reply wpbeginner support says: oct 3, 2019 at 9:50 am for drag and drop control over your content with wordpress, you would want to take a look at page builder plugins: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/best-drag-and-drop-page-builders-for-wordpress/ reply yoriko otomo says: sep 27, 2019 at 7:11 am hi, a very well written article, easy to understand and helpful. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 27, 2019 at 9:38 am thank you, glad you found it helpful reply raphael wichtl says: sep 18, 2019 at 6:48 am such a great and very much informative information. thanks for this update and keep sharing this type of helpful article! reply wpbeginner support says: sep 18, 2019 at 9:43 am thank you, glad you like our article reply palash moundekar says: sep 16, 2019 at 6:20 am this information is very useful to me. i would like to implement this information for improve our work. thank you for sharing crucial information with us. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 16, 2019 at 10:56 am glad you found our content helpful reply martha santos says: sep 2, 2019 at 4:40 pm i have a question for you. is there any blogging platform that is better for blogs with written text? i am currently using tumblr and i like how easy it is to use but i find that most of what everybody posts there is images and very little text. i am not sure people are that interested in reading written texts. do you have any advise on this? or are all blogging platforms more oriented towards images than writing anymore? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 4, 2019 at 10:04 am most sites add the images to make sharing the content more social media friendly but any of the other platforms should be good for writing. reply anishiiadm says: aug 2, 2019 at 2:57 am as a matter of first importance, i might want to you rock for composing such informative content. i arrived, what i needed. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 2, 2019 at 10:20 am glad you like our content reply kyle says: aug 1, 2019 at 12:16 am thanks much for this reply wpbeginner support says: aug 1, 2019 at 9:36 am you’re welcome reply jenifferjack says: jul 24, 2019 at 2:01 pm thanks for sharing this information with us reply wpbeginner support says: jul 25, 2019 at 11:06 am you’re welcome reply emily says: jul 11, 2019 at 12:21 pm hello – thank you for creating this article! i don’t have any real networking connections, so i’m wanting to build up my writer’s portfolio before making my freelancing website public and all that. i felt that blogging would be a great asset in that regard. do you have any tips on how to spread or market a blog and gather a wider audience? and would it be smart as a beginner to have a few posts already written beforehand and post them at regular intervals as you write new material? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 12, 2019 at 11:21 am for getting a larger audience you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/how-to-increase-your-blog-traffic/ having some posts prepared to allow you to keep a consistent posting schedule would be good for a beginner reply kim says: jul 4, 2019 at 3:38 pm hi, i’m currently using wix and getting super frustrated, as i cant get any embeds or links to work, as of late. i also cant find where to contact them for help. very frustrating!! i’m considering switching to a different platform. is there one in particular that you suggest that will be relatively easy to transfer my content over to? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 5, 2019 at 4:04 pm we are a bit biased toward wordpress, if it helps we have a guide explaining the transfer process here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-properly-switch-from-wix-to-wordpress-step-by-step/ reply kimo paul says: jun 25, 2019 at 8:48 am such a valuable information in this blog its really help me in the future. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 26, 2019 at 10:44 am thank you, glad our guide can be helpful reply robert says: jun 21, 2019 at 1:36 pm thank you for comparing popular blogs. i have a somewhat granular question based on your analysis. the only blog you mention that is seo friendly is wordpress. i’m looking for the best blog platform for seo – ease of tile tags, descriptions, on-page linking. which platform do you recommend for seo? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 24, 2019 at 11:33 am as a wordpress tutorial site, our opinion is biased toward wordpress being the best solution for that reply divyang bhuva says: jun 17, 2019 at 4:11 am hey, i found all the discusions really useful in terms of applications for blogging that i haven’t really ever considered! i found your write up really helpful, that i made a full note out of it. thank you so much. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 17, 2019 at 12:39 pm glad our article could be helpful reply terry watkins says: may 16, 2019 at 4:54 pm i like the idea of using wp.org but not the idea that wp.com would own my work. please explain what this means. at some point i may want to publish my writing. how would that work? reply wpbeginner support says: may 17, 2019 at 11:10 am if you use a wordpress.org site then it is not a wordpress.com site. for some clarification, you may want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/self-hosted-wordpress-org-vs-free-wordpress-com-infograph/ reply raj sinha roy says: may 16, 2019 at 1:38 pm amazing write up. eliminates the frustrating initial research and greatly facilitates in decision making. reply wpbeginner support says: may 17, 2019 at 11:00 am thank you reply aisha sharma says: may 7, 2019 at 5:46 am awesome blog. thanks for sharing it. reply wpbeginner support says: may 7, 2019 at 10:39 am you’re welcome reply yogesh says: may 10, 2019 at 2:47 am these post was really helpful for mo reply robby says: apr 29, 2019 at 12:25 pm this is what i’ve been searching and looking for. thanks for the article, its really helpful. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 29, 2019 at 1:32 pm glad our article could be helpful reply kamaljeet singh says: apr 21, 2019 at 12:59 am finally, i found the perfect article that helped me choose the best blogging platform. thanks to beginner. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 22, 2019 at 11:52 am glad our article could help reply lorna pollock says: apr 16, 2019 at 1:16 pm i’m looking for a free blog – but i already have a domain name and a hosting company. is there such a thing? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 17, 2019 at 11:13 am if your host allows, you should be able to install wordpress for free and point your domain toward the site. reply techsteeds says: apr 3, 2019 at 7:00 am i want to big thanks for sharing wonderful list nice work reply wpbeginner support says: apr 3, 2019 at 11:15 am thank you, glad you like our content reply nihal singh says: apr 3, 2019 at 5:26 am great post! it is most useful for the content writer to publish the article for the audience. the given blogging platform is very helpful for writing the best content. thank you for sharing. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 3, 2019 at 11:12 am thank you, glad you find our content helpful reply dilip says: apr 2, 2019 at 2:37 am hi, so i am about to start blogging and i am working on my content to avoid any breaks later,however i am concerned about security of my blog. its a food blog that i am working on. please advice on security of my blog if i do go ahead with wordpress.org or wordpress.com. cheers. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 2, 2019 at 11:20 am for a wordpress.org’s site security, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wordpress-security/ reply johanna oznowicz says: mar 24, 2019 at 7:48 pm i had to stop using blogger because i couldn’t get rid of the comments page for the content i had. so i ended up having to erase the whole post. now, i live in fear of having to delete my wordpress page because of the new format they’re going to, which will mess with paragraphs, to where i will lose at least half a post. i am seriously considering just creating my own personal blog with word . just writing as a journal. but the whole point of having a blog is to make yourself heard. how can i do that when the changes botch up what work i’ve already done? frustration! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 3:16 pm if how the blocks are styled concerns you, and you know about the classic editor plugin, you should still be able to use the classic block in your posts and pages to create content using that method reply sahil singha says: mar 20, 2019 at 9:56 am hello sweet, i’m very happy to advice from you, to choose best one. i gonna to start wordpress.org that it’s good blog yeah! sorry, i start my blog after getting new smartphone last 2019 in it… i hopefully to help me to grow thanks you, so much ☺☺see you later☺☺ reply wpbeginner support says: mar 20, 2019 at 10:50 am you’re welcome reply biprojit deb says: mar 17, 2019 at 4:39 pm i choose blogger because its easy for me reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 1:24 pm if you feel it is the best platform for you then great, glad you found the platform you prefer reply vero says: mar 15, 2019 at 10:47 pm thank you so much for taking the time to write this blog. i am familiar with most of the platform as i have used it in the past. i am currently using wp.com, i don’t want to self-host. but i am wondering how do i start generating income on blogging with wp.com? i know it will take some time. but i wanted to make sure that i am using the right platform that will be generating income from my blog. it is a paid one, not a free one since i upgrade it. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 11:54 am you would want to reach out to wordpress.com’s support for what monetization options they have available at the moment. reply hannah carim says: mar 7, 2019 at 12:57 am best blog ever thanks for sharing reply wpbeginner support says: mar 7, 2019 at 10:39 am you’re welcome reply cdsmythe says: feb 26, 2019 at 7:27 pm hi there im looking for a blog provider where i can restrict access – so i can issue usernames and passwords for access. which of the platforms you covered provide that as a feature? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 27, 2019 at 10:48 am with wordpress you could use a membership plugin to do that: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/5-best-wordpress-membership-plugins-compared/ reply gail s says: feb 23, 2019 at 5:13 pm i’ve had a blogger blog for a few years now. i’m now having to find another platform as we’ve been notified that google’s blogger (blogspot) goes away april 2, 2019. i’ve looked around and most of these free sites listed seem harder to figure out than blogger did. i hope to find something i like soon. the info was good here, but over my head in many respects. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 25, 2019 at 3:57 pm unless we hear otherwise, google is not shutting down blogger at the moment. they are removing google+ and google+ for comments from blogger sites april 2nd, 2019. your blogger site will remain it will only lose google+ comments. reply stuff place one says: feb 23, 2019 at 9:04 am good post and it really help reply wpbeginner support says: feb 25, 2019 at 1:31 pm thank you, glad it could help reply al-burraq technologies says: jan 21, 2019 at 1:46 am nice post thanks for sharing such a wonderful post reply wpbeginner support says: jan 23, 2019 at 11:25 am glad you like our content reply kaalsatyanarayan ji says: jan 20, 2019 at 3:21 am best site best blog thanks sir reply wpbeginner support says: jan 22, 2019 at 3:30 pm thank you reply joe says: jan 16, 2019 at 6:23 am well, i would like to know where wp is better than most. so far all i noticed was how quick we can install it. after that you are entirely on your own. no one (unless you pay large amounts of money) will support you and most themes i chose so far, unless i buy them outright, do not work properly. perhaps that is good for rich people but not for people like me. i pay when i am happy with the goods i am using. if you buy a shirt you try it out. works? like it? then you buy it. although i also do not like wix.com, i think it is still a much better option . all the rest are just plugins. the essence of site building lies on the fact the it is all html. here your article is a sales pitch on your services and those of wp: bah shame on you! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 16, 2019 at 11:52 am for receiving support for wordpress, you can contact us but for specific themes and plugins to understand why some of them require payments for support you may want to take a look at our article: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/how-to-properly-ask-for-wordpress-support-and-get-it/ the support forums on wordpress.org are where you would find free assistance for themes and plugins. reply laura says: feb 22, 2019 at 5:06 am i think that’s the point of the blog; and the whole point of blogging. wp beginne is obviously an expert in their field, an evangelical supporter of wp and happy to extend their knowledge and experience of the site to viewers and readers of their blog. adding value to their business and extending that value to their consumers. no on asked you to read it love. raise your vibe or move along. reply surya singh says: jan 14, 2019 at 5:57 am very useful sites thanks for sharing it reply wpbeginner support says: jan 15, 2019 at 1:18 pm glad our article could be helpful reply asif says: jan 12, 2019 at 2:22 am nice post. thank you for sharing a informative information with us reply wpbeginner support says: jan 14, 2019 at 1:38 pm glad you found our content helpful reply tony loring says: jan 10, 2019 at 11:00 am “drag and drop”? where does the user drag from, and drop where? too many terms are bandied about not allowing ease to use the sites. how to upload text is a similar problem. terms don’t correspond so the user is left staring blankly into space wondering “how do i resolve this dilemma?” one site says “click to the left of the editor”. problem is, nothing happens on doing that. another “suggestion” is “click on the black bar at the top of the page”. however, no black bar is there! sensible directions must be explicit and clear. example: “first click on this; then go to that etc.” i sometimes feel, where literary sites are concerned, the idea is to shoo away the possible user! this is most frustrating! also, beware of “experts” or terms like “the best”. the first simply means gouger, and the 2nd term really means the worst!! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 10, 2019 at 12:00 pm for clarification, this is a comparison article, not an article explaining how to use the functions in each of these services. if you are looking for support for how to use something in wordpress you can reach out to us through our contact form. reply cloudi5 says: jan 2, 2019 at 12:31 am i found your write up really helpful, that i made a full note out of it. thank you so much. but if i may ask, for how long, how much posts do you have to write, or how much traffic does one need before one earns from the new blog? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 3, 2019 at 2:00 pm sadly, with the number of factors involved in a site, there is no easy answer for a question like that and it can vary from person to person. reply arvind says: dec 28, 2018 at 3:52 pm hi i find this website useful however, i also find it bias towards wordpress. like at the top of the page list the blogging pros for each then the cons not wordpress so they suck. am i the only one who got that vibe? guess i will keep poking around. thank you xx reply wpbeginner support says: jan 3, 2019 at 2:17 pm thank you for your feedback, we will certainly look into our wording for future articles and updates and we may have a bias as we use wordpress daily reply lor says: dec 13, 2018 at 6:43 pm i just created my blog yesterday using blogger platform…its easy to use and its free reply giaa says: nov 13, 2018 at 1:21 pm my friends and i wanted to start a blog just to see if we like it. the problem is the money, after reading the article it seems as though the free websites have major setbacks. would it be worth the setbacks just to try it or should we just pay the money? reply wpbeginner support says: nov 13, 2018 at 8:03 pm hi giaa, if you and your friends are serious about the project, then it is worth spending money on. you can start with free platforms but later it would be a headache to move your site to a self-hosted platform. reply « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) wpeka coupon get 25% off on wpeka premium wordpress plugins and themes. aweber coupon get 100% off for your first month with aweber. start your first month for free. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.