wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how to do keyword research for your wordpress blog how to do keyword research for your wordpress blog last updated on april 17th, 2019 by editorial staff 261 shares share tweet share pin we are often asked by our users how to do keyword research for their wordpress blogs. keyword research helps you find betters content ideas that will help you grow traffic and create highly engaging content that users will love. in this article, we will show you how to properly do keyword research for your wordpress blog. what is keyword research and why you need it? keyword research is a research technique used by content creators and seo experts. it helps you discover words users enter into search engines to find content, products, and services in your industry. you can then use those words and phrases into your website to get more search traffic. many beginners assume that they have a clear idea of what their users are looking for. however, you don’t need to make educated guesses when there are powerful tools available that can help you make data-driven decisions. properly using keyword research as a part of your content strategy can help you achieve the following: find the popular keywords your users are actually looking for find content ideas that are easy to rank for and have decent search volume find out what your competitors are doing and then beat them to it with a better content strategy get more search traffic and grow your audience with each new article that being said, let’s take a look at how to properly do keyword research for your wordpress blog and boost your search traffic. we have hand-picked the best keyword research tools that we have personally used for our own projects. we will show you each one of them and how to properly use them to do your own keyword research like a pro. 1. semrush semrush is one of the best seo tools on the market. it is the complete seo suite with tools to perform organic research, paid advertising research, keyword research, and in-depth competition analysis. to get started, simply go to semrush website and enter a keyword or your website url. you will see an overview of the keyword you entered showing search volume (number of average searches), cpc for paid advertising, and number of search results. scroll down a little and you will see an overview of keywords matches and related keywords. you can click on the view full report button to explore the complete lists or export them to a csv file. scroll down further and you will see the list of top search results for the keyword you entered. you can click on each of these links to view full report which will help you understand why these pages rank for these keywords. you can also use their new ‘keyword magic tool’ which gives you faster access to broader keyword research on related terms. you can click on the add button next to a keyword to add them into keyword analyzer. once you have figured out the best keywords with highest search volume, the next step would be to analyze competition for those keywords. click on the links already ranking for those keywords to see a detailed analysis. you will be able to see the backlinks for that particular url, other keywords that page rank for, and how much search traffic it gets. overall, semrush is the best keyword research tool on the market. it not only gives you keyword ideas, it also helps you find out how you can rank for those keywords. 2. ahrefs ahrefs is one of the most powerful keyword research tools on the market. it helps you learn why your competitors are ranking so high, and what you need to do to outrank them in search results. ahrefs crawls more than 6 billion pages every day, with over 12 trillion links in their index from 200+ million domain names. that’s a lot of data, but the real beauty is how their platform helps you use this data to your advantage. it has an intuitive user interface which breaks down all the data into different sections. simply enter a domain name in the search field and ahrefs will pull a wealth of information in an easy to understand format. it will show you an overview of the results with the total number of backlinks, referring domains, organic keywords, and content review. you can click on any of these sections to drill down further. click on ‘organic keywords’ report and ahrefs will show you a list of keywords for the domain name with search volume, search rank, url, and more. you can also generate keyword ideas by entering keywords in the search box. ahrefs’ keyword explorer tool will generate a list of keyword suggestions with search volume, difficulty score, and clicks. ahrefs also comes with powerful tools for content analysis, rank tracking, web monitoring, and more. you can export all reports in csv or pdf format and then work on them in your favorite spreadsheet software. 3. answerthepublic answerthepublic is a free visual keyword research and content ideas tool. it utilizes google and bing’s auto-suggest feature and presents the data in a more understandable visual format. simply visit the website and enter a keyword or phrase. the tool will then load keywords and present them into visual maps. reports are divided into questions, prepositions, comparisons, alphabetical, and related keywords. you can click on any keyword and it will show google search results in a new browser tab. this allows you to quickly view the questions people are searching for, and how you can answer them with relevant content. all keyword research is presented on a single page. you can download the data in visual format as images or export them to a csv file and use with your preferred spreadsheet software. more keyword research tips all the above-mentioned tools will provide you a treasure trove of data. here are some more tips on how to narrow down your keyword research and find the most profitable ideas. start your keyword research with broader keywords and then narrow it down to find keywords with low competition and more search volume. enter your own url in semrush or ahrefs to see your own keyword performance and then compare it with your competitors. focus on finding keywords that answer your customer’s questions and help them make a buying decision. don’t limit your keyword research to most searched keywords. you can easily rank for longer keywords and build upon that. how to apply keyword research in your business or blog? the main goal of keyword research is to find out what your customers are looking for and then rank for those keywords in search results. there are multiple ways to do that depending on your content strategy. plan a proper content marketing strategy around your new keyword research create useful content articles, blog posts, infographics, videos, and more using those keywords. business websites can create landing pages, documentation, faqs and other content targeting new keywords if you run an online store, then you can use those keywords in your product titles, descriptions, product categories, and more. need help creating engaging content? check out our expert pick of the best content marketing tools and plugins. how do i track the performance of my keyword research? first, you need to sign up for google search console. it provides you insights into how google views your website. you will also be able to see keywords you rank for, and average position in search results. you will also need google analytics to track the performance of your content. monsterinsights is the easiest way to install google analytics in wordpress. it shows you top content in your wordpress dashboard and enables you to track user engagement on your website. we hope this article helped you learn how to do keyword research for your wordpress blog. you may also want to see ultimate step by step wordpress seo guide for beginners. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 261 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to start your own podcast (step by step) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 9 commentsleave a reply andrew scott wight says: dec 21, 2019 at 12:55 am this is the most informative article iv read in years. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 23, 2019 at 10:56 am thank you, glad you’ve found our content informative reply osama says: mar 14, 2019 at 4:20 pm if i’m a beginner and want to start my personal blog what should i do for it first keyword research or article writing or making a website and buy a domain and purchase hosting??? waiting for a meaning full reply reply wpbeginner support says: mar 18, 2019 at 3:31 pm that is a question of personal preference for which to do first. as long as you do all of those steps you can have a great site, you can add keywords to your articles by updating them or you can use the keywords to help you decide what to write about. you would purchase a domain and hosting once you are ready. reply suhail dar says: dec 25, 2018 at 2:28 am but these tools are not free at all reply wpbeginner support says: dec 26, 2018 at 2:50 pm while ahrefs and semrush don’t have free versions currently, answerthepublic has a free option with the ability to go pro. reply ashutosh panda says: jun 12, 2018 at 1:19 pm yes. this article was so helpful. again feeling pleasure to be here. reply dustin w. stout says: jun 5, 2018 at 1:07 pm great read! this ultimate guide indeed emphasized proper ways to do keyword research in wordpress and why it matters. such a helpful beginners guide. reply eki ayemenere. says: jun 5, 2018 at 6:06 am semrush is a must have for seo analysis. though a bit pricey, but it’s totally worth it. with semrush, i can easily spy on my competitors’ keyword, ad campaign, check my ranking and the authority of my site, and more, in one place. answer the public is a cool tool i came across in one of your articles recently. and since then, i’ve been using it to come up with subheadings for my blog posts. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.