toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog july 27, 2015 \ lorraine \ 4 comments how blogging can help your business thrive last updated on: july 28th, 2015 blogging matters. to businesses. to entrepreneurs. to pretty much everyone trying to make money with their site. why? this infographic sums it up nicely. (thanks to will blunt at blogger sidekick for creating it!) let’s explore these points further… 1. search engines love blog content. naturally, search engines love it when new content is added to the web, especially if it’s good. if it is exceptional, your post will earn a high ranking. (many of wording well’s posts rank on the first page of google!) it’s actually pretty easy to attain a high ranking. make sure you submit a sitemap of your website to google, yahoo, and bing, and ensure your post is better than anyone else’s out there. 2. social networks crave blog content. people love social media for several reasons. sure, they like connecting with their family and friends, but people also like discovering new blogs to follow and new content to read. 3. helpful blog content drip-feeds quality leads into your sales funnel. you might not realize this, but each time you create and publish a blog post, you are helping direct others towards your product(s) and/or service(s). seriously. if they don’t already know you, readers will wonder who the heck you are and what you’re all about. if they do know you, they will continue to be impressed by you, and eventually will come to buy from you. the important thing to remember is to always be helpful and forge relationships with others, whether they are your readers, your colleagues, your clients, etc. you never know who will decide to utilize your products/services… or when! 4. blogging helps you stand out from the competition as a thought leader. there’s no doubt about it: blogging adds credibility to your expertism. by defining yourself differently from your competition, you’ll stand out from the crowd and be remembered. take me, for example. not too many people know how i used to earn money, but those that do won’t forget me because of it! lol (and no, i’m not talking about me being a high school math and english teacher…) blogging regularly also helps your site rank higher in the search engines, as they love websites that add content on a regular basis. all of this will give your business a boost! 5. using blogging as a marketing platform decreases your overall spend. blogging is a very inexpensive way to gain exposure for your business. aside from hosting costs, blogging costs can be kept at a minimum (unless you spend tons of money on many plugins, etc.) and is a great way for you to reach many people, especially when others share your content. if your content is great and/or elicits an emotional response, others will want to share it willingly. by adding tweet this content to your posts and including share buttons on your site, you make it easier for others to share. conclusion the verdict: blogging creates trust. this trust then becomes the cornerstone for customer advocacy. creating trust is difficult, but can be done over time. blogging regularly helps, as does being consistent across all of your social media platforms. repeat the same message everywhere. people will eventually get it… and sales will increase. your business will begin to thrive, and you’ll be the one reaping the rewards! a question or two for you do you blog regularly? how do you think that helps your business? please share your responses in the comment section! if you are in need of a blogger for a post or two per month, let me know… because i offer blogging services! did you pick up your free gift yet? get 20 blog post must-haves now! blogging, business tips \ blogging for business, blogging tips, how to grow your business, reasons to blog about lorraine lorraine reguly, b.a./b.ed., is an author and english teacher-turned-freelancer for hire. her life journey is motivational and inspirational. lorraine's book, from nope to hope, is a self-help book designed to help anyone who wishes to lead a happier life, and contains a built-in workbook. lorraine offers 4 different services on wording well, including writing/blogging, and editing. she also helps others become published authors! check out her services and see what she can do for you. you can also visit her author site, laying it out there. and don't forget to pick up your free copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! 4 thoughts on “how blogging can help your business thrive” tiffany says july 30, 2015 at 1:57 pm in the past, i always heard about how important blogging was for businesses, but i never took the information to heart until this year. before, i published maybe one post per month on my blog. i’ve since moved up to posting twice per week, but plan on taking that down to once per week. i’m trying out the 80/20 strategy of writing less and promoting more. anyhow, all of these points are spot on. i have received so much more traffic and interaction on my website and through social media since i began updating my blog regularly. blogging has allowed me to connect with people, and prove my expertise. blogging has definitely done wonderful things for my business. reply lorraine says july 31, 2015 at 5:11 pm tiffany, it’s great that you’re experimenting and finding what works best for you. everyone is different; it’s tough to find the “right” amount to blog! sounds like you’re getting a handle on it, though, which is great! thanks for piping up. i love it when people take time to comment here! reply elna cain says july 27, 2015 at 11:44 pm lorraine, i blog regularly and i know for a fact my promoting it on social networks has helped me create more visibility online. i’ve gotten lots of leads on twitter and some gigs as well. while there’s talk about how a blog isn’t necessary for a freelance writer, i feel it’s integral to their growth and success. great post! elna reply lorraine says july 28, 2015 at 1:37 am elna, blogging is necessary to keep up appearances, too! it lets others know you’ve not fallen off the face of the earth… even when you’re on vacation (like me, right now). there are many abandoned blogs out there… some that have not had any content added to it for years. such a shame… thanks for your comment, elna. you’re right; freelancers need to keep a blog, too! p.s. see you next week over chai tea! *wink wink* (or maybe a smoothie) reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website you must enable javascript to be able to comment current [email protected] * leave this field empty ← previous post next post → wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy