 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog how to find a niche for your blog (step-by-step guide) written by: anya skrba (published on: june 5th, 2017 last updated: december 12th, 2019) posted in: blogging 5 comments written by anya skrba before you create a blog and move forward becoming a successful blogger, consider the following: “ the meaning of life is in attaining the highest form of knowledge, which is the idea of the good.” – ancient greek philosophers the same applies to blogging. you want to reach the highest form of knowledge in the topic of your choice. so, pick the one that appeals to you — the one you are passionate about and most interested in. aspire for success, happiness, security, and recognition. by choosing your niche of interest and having your point of view you’ll be able to position and differentiate your blog from the competition. there are lots of ways to determine what niche is right for your new blog, but we can make the process even easier. in this article, we’ll show you exact steps you must take to choose the right niche when you create a new blog. brainstorm your topic without thinking about anything else, start your niche decision process by writing down all the things that interest you. these can be personal interests or professional interests. start by thinking about the things you enjoy doing, or would enjoy doing if you had the chance. for example, you are an amateur photographer. photography blogging could be a great niche. you can share your photos, your detailed knowledge, or your experience with camera technology. next, think about the things you would enjoy learning. for example, you’re interested in taking up cooking classes. even if you don’t have the time or budget to start cooking classes, you can start a food blog where you analyze recipes you find online. and discuss how to choose perfect ingredients, and weigh the benefits of organic versus gmo ingredients. finally, think about the things you are already diving deep into. for example, let’s say that you are an adult that is going back to finish your degree in college. you’re going to do a lot of research on on-campus versus online degree programs, what university to choose, how to get back into the swing of studying, and so on. these are great topics for a niche blog about higher education. during this exercise, you will get a better feeling for the themes that resonate with you. the ones that you are most passionate about are the best candidates for your niche. also, read this post to understand what types of blogs exist on the web. whether you are excited about one niche idea or several of them, list them down. next, we will show you a 3 step formula to confirm your niche for success. blog success validation whether you want to blog for prestige, income, fun or connections, you’ll want to research the niche you choose and make sure the topic is viable. the following “blog success validation” exercise will help you determine if your blog has a real potential. it will also help you understand why 90% of blogs fail. 1. potential niche size even if you believe it’s a brilliant blog idea, you will likely struggle to succeed unless you find a niche market that attracts enough people. you don’t want your niche to be too small or too big. for example, the size of “golf” niche is too big and broad with millions of keywords ideas. but if you pursue a niche that is very narrow, such as “plane golf swing drills,” the volume of searches would be too small. one niche down from “golf” would be “golf tips” or even deeper down “golf tips for beginners.” check the size of your niche check the top five keywords for your niche topic. look for at least 10 thousand monthly searches combined for the five keywords. you can use google keyword planner (free), serps tool (free) or wordtracker (freemium) to check for the volume of searches and get keywords ideas. you want to be certain there is a large enough audience looking for the kind of information you will provide. but it shouldn’t be too large that you will get lost in the crowd. with google keyword planner tool you can get top keyword ideas. however, it won’t give you exact numbers of search volume and only the interval of common searches. this information will give you a rough idea of keywords and search volumes. thus, we suggest using google tool to get keywords ideas and other tools to get average search volumes for specific keywords. if you want to get precise search volume use serps tool. enter your primary keyword (for example use “golf tips”) and get ideas by looking at the list of suggested keywords. select the top five keywords that fit the niche topic you picked. check the search volume for each keyword and add them together. for example, applying this search process to our five golf-tip keywords, yielded the following search results: “golf tips” – 6,600 “golf swing tips” – 6,600 “golf putting tips” – 1,000 “golf tips for beginners” – 880 “golf tips driving” – 880 with these five keywords, we have a little over 20,000 average monthly searches. this niche market (“golf tips”) has enough volume and would be a good choice for a blog. recommended tool: rank tracking 2. potential competition it’s a good sign if you have competition. it means others are talking about your niche and pursuing it. it’s also important to note that bloggers in your niche are not always your competition. and you will have to get to know them sooner or later through your blogging journey. following is a competition review process you can use: do a google search for “[niche] blog” or “best [niche] blogs.” can you find blogs currently targeting your niche? are there at least five popular blogs focused on your topic? don’t lose interest if you see a large number of blogs in your niche. if they can do it, so can you! go to facebook and do a search for [your niche]. are there active facebook pages? not all topics lend themselves to facebook, but most do. look for facebook pages and see how many followers they have. great niches will exhibit at least 1,000 fans. go to twitter and do a search for [your niche]. are there active twitter accounts? you should find many references to your niche on twitter. check twitter accounts of people involved within your niche. see how many followers they have (should be at least 1,000). are there offline magazines? this is the gold standard for a niche. if someone is going to the trouble of creating a paper magazine centered on your niche, you can be sure online fans are looking for that information. you can check amazon magazines or just do google search for “[your niche] magazine or journal.” in regards to our “golf tips” example, this was a no-brainer, we see all the golf-related magazines at the local grocery stores. if one or two of these points are positive, it’s a good sign your niche has a potential. 3. potential monetization do you want to earn money with your blog? many people start blogging as a hobby without looking at monetizing their blog. but, others want to make extra cash or even dream of making a living by blogging. it doesn’t matter which category is yours. it wouldn’t hurt to know if your blog can produce the income you desire. if you found other blogs, active social profiles and offline magazines in the previous sections, this indicates the niche is alive and monetizable. to make sure your niche is monetizable, research the following: is anyone selling information or products related to your niche? the easiest way to determine this is to see what your competitors are promoting. are well-known advertisers in your niche? these could be the big brands or e-commerce sites. are there affiliate offers in your niche? here is how to find affiliate offers: check affiliate networks (clickbank.com, cj.com and sharesale.com and amazon affiliate). do a google search for “[your keyword] affiliate” or “[your keyword] affiliate program.” these points can help you determine if you can establish a blog in the niche of your choice that helps you generate income. making the final decision now that you’ve done a validation process for all topics that you had listed. you should have a clear idea of the size, competition, and monetization potential for each subject. and it’s time to narrow down your niches. if you ended this exercise with one niche in mind, then you’re ready to go and can start your new blog. if you are excited about several niches, you might feel like you want to create a blog about them all at the same time. the best approach, yet, would be to focus on one at a time. this way, you can create a solid blog strategy and improve upon it by exploring new topics later on. conclusion don’t jump into niche-specific blogging without a plan. make sure your niche choice is something that you will want to stick with for years to come. with personal interest, interest from others, and ability to create revenue, your niche blog can become a successful venture! this entry was posted in blogging. bookmark the permalink. additional reading the beginner’s guide to blog content planning what is a blog? - the definition of blog, blogging, and blogger 6 steps to discovering the best blog name ideas how to move your blog from weebly to wordpress how to create a marketing plan for your blog start your own blog this guide is an introduction to mastering the art of blogging. it provides easy to follow steps to start, maintain, and grow your blog. read the guide « previous 12 blogging mistakes that you should definitely avoid next » 6 steps to discovering the best blog name ideas 5 comments on “how to find a niche for your blog (step-by-step guide)” susan velez march 26, 2017 at 9:28 am hi ogi, these are definitely some great tips on choosing a niche. i struggled with this when i first started blogging. my last blog was all over the place, i found myself writing about flipping websites, creating products, personal development. i remember someone who commented on my blog asked me what it was really about. i disregarded their comment and ignored it. what i should’ve done was really sit down and look my blog over. needless to say that blog ended up expiring and i let it go. now i am on a new blog. i’ve finally narrowed my blog into a niche that i love. i agree that choosing the right niche that has the potential to monetize it is important. otherwise you’re just building a hobby. anyone, who is wanting to learn how to choose the right niche will definitely learn a lot from your blog post. yes, it’s extremely important to choose a niche that you’re interested in. as a blogger you’re going to need a lot of content. so it’s important to love what you’re writing about, otherwise you’ll end up jumping ship before the success arrives. thanks again ogi for this information. i found it very informative and helpful. have a great day! – susan reply ogi djuraskovic march 27, 2017 at 8:29 am thanks for your comment susan…glad you liked it! wish you all the best with your blog. reply pingback: 75+ tips for choosing your blogging niche | blogelina margret february 10, 2015 at 5:32 pm choosing a right niche is always difficult as we have lots of options. your blog is really nice to read. it gives fundamental ideas, how to select a good niche. very informative. keep writing. margret reply susan daniels january 20, 2015 at 1:22 am thanks for this informative post. this is my first time to your site and i find it so full of great content, it is amazing. i need to do more with keywords and searching other niche sites. good suggestions. warmly, susan reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.