skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us how to get more traffic to your blog in 7 steps lauren mcmanus updated: 1/22/20 • comments: 19 home » create and go blog » grow your blog » how to get more traffic to your blog in 7 steps disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin196 shares196 most articles on how to get more traffic to your blog are about shortcuts and short-term strategies. we’re going to tell you some of our best strategies that will get you sustainable, long-term results. we have now started two successful blogs in two different niches that we drive traffic to using pinterest, google, youtube, and facebook. we’re on instagram, but we use it more for our personal accounts – not as a traffic driver to our websites (not yet anyway). in just 3 years of blogging, we have been able to grow the following social media accounts: pinterest: health and wellness account to 200k+ followers pinterest: create and go has 35k+ followers youtube: create and go has 70k+ followers youtube: the health nerd has 440k+ followers facebook: create and go has 18k+ followers we started a health and wellness blog first. after making $103,457.98 in our first year with this blog, we started create and go to teach others how to start an online business. we now make over $100k/month blogging as evidenced in our blog income reports. one thing that we have learned from growing these various accounts is that it doesn’t matter what platform you are using to drive traffic to your blog… many of the most important strategies for how to get more traffic to your blog are all the same – regardless of which platform you are using! traffic is oh-so-important to your blog. i think it’s a more difficult piece of the puzzle than monetization, to be honest. anyone can create a product or apply affiliate marketing strategies on their blog, but it takes time and a lot of work to get a considerable amount of traffic to your blog on a consistent basis. table of contents close open 1. stop trying to do everything 2. focus on content – not followers 3. stop searching for shortcuts 4. publish new content regularly and consistently 5. try doing some outreach 6. consider spending some money on ads 7. get help from the right people below are some of the best strategies that we have learned and personally use on our blogs to grow our traffic. 1. stop trying to do everything i think it’s important to start here because this is a common blogging mistake that we see all the time. we made this mistake in the beginning as well. many new bloggers begin designing their blogs and when they get to the part where it’s time to link social media accounts, guess what they do… i bet you’re guilty of it too. they sign up for an account on every social media account they can: twitter, facebook, google plus, pinterest, and instagram. i think youtube is still a little too scary for most new bloggers, so i imagine they let that one go. and then they try to post new articles on every platform and wait for the traffic to roll in. this is exactly what we did. we posted on facebook, instagram, pinterest, and google plus every time we released an article. *facepalm* how. exhausting. stop trying to master every potential platform for blog traffic and instead focus all of your attention on mastering one platform first. if you’re a real go-getter, you might be able to handle two platforms – but no more! if you’re able to drive traffic from two different sources, they can help each other grow. (i.e. google recognizes when tons of people visit your site from another site like pinterest or youtube and this can help increase your ranking in google search results). only when you are driving some consistent traffic to your blog from these 1-2 sources should you even attempt to focus on incorporating another form of traffic into your strategy. diversification is a good thing, but you need to learn an entire platform inside out if you really want to drive serious traffic from it. focusing on multiple at once will only leave you time to barely scratch the surface on any of them. 2. focus on content – not followers everyone always gets so worked up over follower counts. i get it. it’s a social proof thing. it’s a popularity contest. hell, i started the article with our social proof because i know that it matters to people. i get it. sometimes you don’t get taken seriously if you don’t have a certain amount of followers. they are important for these reasons. you have to be careful though. followers aren’t always a sign of success. they can be bought or gained through spammy methods like following and unfollowing (i’m looking at you, instagrammers!). following and unfollowing totally works, but guess what? it doesn’t give you engaged followers! most instagrammers who do this have terrible engagement rates, which only makes their content seen less in the instagram algorithm. pinterest, like instagram, also has limits on how often you can do this on their platform. do you need any more proof that it’s bad business to try to game the system this way? here’s the deal about followers as they relate to traffic. the content that you produce matters infinitely more than followers do when it comes to actually driving traffic to your blog. followers are useless if they aren’t engaging with your content anyway. social media platforms and search engines are constantly changing their algorithms to support this model. pinterest has reduced their emphasis on following boards and accounts, and instagram has done the same by introducing new concepts like following hashtags rather than entire accounts. if you have some of the best content out there and you work at getting it in front of people, your social media accounts will grow quickly! real life example: our wandr youtube channel is was a side project that we started a while back go. we posted the video to facebook and it exploded in virality, which led us to getting over 30,000 facebook followers in less than a month! here is one of our videos from our trip to peru in 2017: and if you still aren’t convinced, read our article on how to get more followers on pinterest as it better illustrates the point in this section. 3. stop searching for shortcuts i’m going to tie this one right into what was just said above. shortcuts = short-term results. real work and solid strategies = long-term results. i’ll let you decide which one you’d like! following and unfollowing will get you tons of followers quickly, but it will lead to poor engagement and ultimately hurt your traffic in the long-term. it’s much better to grow organically at a slightly slower pace than to grow quickly using cheap tactics. engagement is what drives sales. not followers. it’s okay to search for tips on how to get more traffic to your blog because that’s how you found this article – duh! but make sure that you are implementing the right strategies to help you achieve long-term, sustainable results. the bottom line is that you will get results based on the amount of work that you put into it. 4. publish new content regularly and consistently this one might seem obvious, but did you know that social media platforms and search engines actually favor users that post more often? it’s true, and we’ve tested it ourselves. over the last couple of years, there have been points in time where we stopped publishing content for as long as 2-3 months at times. we didn’t do it on purpose, but we got really wrapped up in creating products, sales pages, and other parts of monetizing our blogs. every single time we stopped publishing new content, our traffic dropped. and every time we started publishing more content again, it rose back up again. in our experience, posting more often does help to increase your traffic to some extent. we have gone through periods of posting as often as 3x/week. now, this is a little crazy and something that most of you probably can’t keep up with. that’s okay. find a posting schedule that works for you and your blog and stick to it. publish at least 1-2 new articles each week while you are trying to actively get more traffic to your blog. a good way to help you stick to this schedule is to write and edit articles in batches. you can try spending a week writing content and have it edited it ready to go a month in advance to free up your time to focus on other tasks. and remember that this only works when you are writing quality blog posts. we’ve hired out writers to help us publish more often and the content (and our traffic) suffered because of it. 5. try doing some outreach regardless of which platform you are using, outreach is one of the best ways to help you get more traffic to your blog organically. let’s elaborate by going over a few examples: google: guest posting can give you backlinks to your blog, which can help boost your seo and increase google search traffic. facebook: getting other accounts to feature you or networking in facebook groups (link to ours) can get you more exposure. pinterest: joining group boards and other strategies like using tailwind tribes can help you get more traffic to your blog before you get your own followers. instagram: using hashtags, tagging other accounts, and sponsored posts can help you get featured on bigger accounts, which can get you exposure and new followers. outreach helps your accounts and your blog get more exposure organically and can help increase your engagement by bringing in new followers that actually choose to follow your content because they truly like it. outreach also has other benefits like helping you build relationships and partnerships with other bloggers in your niche. we have developed a great relationship with one of our blogging students that took our six-figure blogger course, natalie bacon. lauren of create and go (left) and natalie (right). alex reached out to natalie for a testimonial for our course, which led to us meeting her at a finance conference called fincon, which led to her helping us get a feature in forbes and introduced to incredibly successful bloggers like michelle from making sense of cents. we’ve done guest posts for both natalie and michelle (below): from tinder to $100k per month blogging in 3 years how we went from $0-10,000/month blogging in less than a year guest posts can get you backlinks, which help with google seo. outreach can be super powerful and impactful for your blog in the short-term and long-term! 6. consider spending some money on ads i know, i know. nobody wants to spend money on advertising. starting a blog is costly enough. but spending money on advertising to get more traffic to your blog doesn’t necessarily mean spending hundreds or thousands of dollars every month. try shifting your thought process on how you normally use advertising. instead of using it for the sole purpose of driving traffic to your blog, consider using it to test out new ideas. when we first started out on pinterest, we often spent only $5 at a time on an ad. we bid low and only used it to see what pins received the most interest and the most clicks. this helped us alter our strategies with our pin creation and figure out what type of content people were interested in. some of the promoted pins received a lot of engagement and some of them bombed. we didn’t bother to waste much more time with some of the pins that bombed. spending even just a few dollars on advertising can help you determine how people respond to your content and ultimately help you improve your social media content over time. i encourage you to test this out on any platform to see how people respond to your comment. forgo that starbucks latte this weekend and spend $5 on advertising for your blog instead. 7. get help from the right people lastly, get some help, y’all! buying courses taught by people who have put in the work and learned the real strategies behind what it takes to grow a social media account is one of the quickest ways to get ahead. we started off no differently than you. our first blog failed and it took us several months to start making money with avocadu. we started at the bottom too. we grew all of those social media accounts from 0. here are a few courses that we can recommend on growing social media accounts: instagram: beat the algorithm pinterest (organic): pinterest traffic avalanche pinterest (ads): pin practical promotions facebook ads: flourish facebook ads we bought courses too!!! boy did we ever. we spent thousands on courses in those first few months trying to learn different traffic and monetization strategies. these courses were an investment in our blog and look how it has paid off! ahem, social proof. but more importantly… traffic! we’re at the point now where we always look for paid courses when we’re learning new skills because it ends us saving us time and money in the long run. no one enjoys spending months in the dark trying to search for free information across every nook and cranny of the internet. if you aren’t ready to make an investment into a course yet, you can also check out these free courses to get started: pinterest (organic): free 4-day pinterest marketing course pinterest (ads): pin practical ads remember that the most important aspect of learning how to get more traffic to your blog is actually taking action. get focused, decide where you need to spend your time, and put in the work! we hope you enjoyed the article on how to get more traffic to your blog! please feel free to leave us a comment below if you did or if you have any lingering questions! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin196 shares196 about lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. read this next 17 best blogging tips (for newbies to advanced bloggers) for 2020 if you’re looking for a cutesy article that’s going to give you a high-level vague overview of some blogging tips for beginners, you are not in the right place. this is going to be a deep dive. both rookies and blogging pros are going to gain massive insights from this article. we’re also going to […] keep reading > similar articles grow your blog 14 fresh blogging statistics that change the game and how you should blog in 2020 how to build an email list: 5 ways to get subscribers on your blog 11 headline writing hacks for your blog to get 3x more clicks pinterest traffic for bloggers: how we get 300,000+ monthly visits see all blog posts 19 leave a reply 9 comment threads 10 thread replies 3 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 12 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest owen kendrick hi lauren, i stumbled across create and go a week ago and i dove head first into blogging. i’ve tried it in the past, so i’m familiar with the basics. i was thinking about your pinterest avalanche course because i’m struggling to think of the best way to get traffic for my subject matter which is under addiction/recovery. i’m not sure the demographic that uses pinterest would be interested in my blog? any thoughts would be so appreciated. thanks! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 18 days ago admin alex and lauren hey owen, you definitely want to focus on the traffic source where your audience is. figure out which social media platform your tribe hangs out and focus on driving traffic from there. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 18 days ago guest frederick espiritu hey lauren, thanks so much for this and all your other posts. yours is my go-to site for blogging tips. on tip 4 for publishing content. i post quality lengthy articles of 3,000 words on average, which take more time to publish. my target is 1-2 article per week. but due to my current full-time job, i can only publish every other week at most. i was considering to invite guest writers to reach the goal in terms of quantity, but you mentioned from experience that your blog’s traffic and content were compromised. can you shed more light on the… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago admin alex and lauren hey frederick. the pros are simply the amount of time it can save in researching and writing. the biggest con is that if you want the article to be in “your voice” then you end up spending a lot of time editing the article so it sounds like you. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago guest rahul tayal hey alex! i am exactly the guy you described in your “from broke and frustrated to 100k+” story…. i do want to start something as a side hustle apart from my 9-5.. and here i am… now.. i have a basic (kinda silly) question… i wanted to know about what do you mean by being active on your blog. i mean if i write something on my blog it will remain there always until i choose to make some changes.. and if you’re saying to keep writing articles about the niche i chose to write about, it’s gotta end somewhere…… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago admin alex and lauren hey rahul. an active blogger responds to comments on their website, engages with their audience on social media, and keeps articles and/or products updated with the latest and greatest information. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago guest jonathan lucky i just want to be like you you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren hard work and perseverance 😉 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest anjan do you use google seo to get traffic on your blog,but ranking on google is not easy any more ,so how do you get good traffic to your both blogs?? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren we focused on pinterest traffic first. it’s easier to get organic traffic more quickly on pinterest than through google search. google is a long game. we still rely heavily on pinterest for avocadu but have put a bigger focus on google seo for create and go the past year. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest laura b hello! thank you so much for all your resources! i’m just getting started with my blog! how many posts to start a blog and how many pinnable images per post do you recommend? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey, laura! we recommend having 5-10 posts on your blog before launching it, but it’s totally up to you. also, you don’t need more than 1 pinnable image per post! hope that helps! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest aziz haida great article , i just started your free pinterest course and will follow the strategy, thanks you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest rupinder kaur you have provided very useful information but i have one question – how can we use instagram to get traffic on blog.? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren we don’t use instagram as a tool for driving traffic to our blog, so we don’t teach about it. i would recommend following someone who uses that specifically to drive traffic to a blog and teaches about it. 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest mithun actually, instagram is not the right platform for bloggers as it is very hard to get the users off the platform and visit your blog. i have personally tried everything with instagram and unfortunately, nothing really worked. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren i think it works for some people to build brands and connections with the readers on their blogs, so there can be a lot of value there, but you’re right that it isn’t a great platform for actually driving traffic to specific blog posts. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest aaliyah m this article was nice. straight to the point and let’s people know you have to put in work! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren thank you, aaliyah!! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents 1. stop trying to do everything 2. focus on content – not followers 3. stop searching for shortcuts 4. publish new content regularly and consistently 5. try doing some outreach 6. consider spending some money on ads 7. get help from the right people footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz