start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising happiness mental strength advertising last updated on march 11, 2020 how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life eugene k. choi a life coach who helps people discover how to best utilize their passions and talents through a proven process. read full profile share pin it tweet share email imagine going through the day to day life filled with all the usual responsibilities and challenges, you’d probably have plenty of resentment accumulated in your mind. what if i tell you there’s one simple way to make you happier every day? not possible you say? it turns out there is indeed one simple practice that can make you happier even when your circumstances are still the same. this practice i’m talking about is starting a gratitude journal. this might sound silly to you but it’s really not. keep reading to see all the compelling evidence that shows how practicing gratitude can really change your life for the better. table of contents why gratitude matters to you how gratitude makes you happier starting a gratitude journal simple starting tips basic techniques more advanced techniques gratitude is the attitude more tips for leading a grateful life why gratitude matters to you “whenever there’s a grateful moment, i note it. i know for sure that appreciating whatever shows up for you in life changes your personal vibration. you radiate and generate more goodness for yourself when you’re aware of all you have and not focusing on your have-nots.” — oprah a gallup world poll has shown that 85% percent of people reported being disengaged at their jobs.[1] many of them hate their jobs and especially their bosses. to add to this, 1 in 6 americans are on some form of psychiatric medication.[2] antidepressants are the most common type followed by anti-anxiety medications. there’s no denying it that people are unhappy. you may be wondering how you can feel grateful especially when your situation might be legitimately bad. it may not be easy, but don’t lose hope because it’s definitely possible. here’s the good news: gratitude is a skill anyone can develop. advertising all it takes is a bit of daily practice. it’s the one thing that will help you become happier even if crappy circumstances you may be in haven’t changed yet. monk and interfaith scholar, david steindl-rast, says the following about gratitude in his ted talk: “is it really the happy people that are grateful? we all know quite a number of people who have everything that it would take to be happy, and they are not happy, because they want something else or they want more of the same. and we all know people who have lots of misfortune, misfortune that we ourselves would not want to have, and they are deeply happy. they radiate happiness. you are surprised. why? because they are grateful. if you think it’s happiness that makes you grateful, think again. it’s gratefulness that makes you happy.” how gratitude makes you happier neuroscience has shown the act of being thankful releases dopamine and serotonin in your brain.[3] dopamine is what makes you feel good and causes you to want more, so simply starting that practice of gratitude will help you develop a habit of doing so. serotonin is a neurotransmitter that activates the happiness center of your brain, which is similar to how antidepressants work. so you can basically consider gratitude as a natural antidepressant and some argue that it’s even better than the drugs. your brain cannot focus on positive and negative things at the same time. this is a key reason why practicing gratitude can help you shift your focus from being sad about the things you don’t have in your life to being glad for the things you do have. starting a gratitude journal you can use anything to start logging things you are grateful for. whether it’s on a regular journal, a notebook, or just some scrap paper, anything can be used to simply take note of the things you are thankful for. the key is to just do it both intentionally and consistently. simple starting tips keep your gratitude journal in a spot that you will see regularly each day. your nightstand is a good spot where you will see it first thing when you wake up and last thing when you go down for bed. personally, i like to keep mine in the bathroom counter so that i do it first thing when i’m getting ready to start my day. you don’t have to come up with the “right” answers. start by keeping things simple and write anything that comes to mind. you can be thankful for things like a meal you just ate, a movie you just watched or a friend you spent time with. develop consistency. try to make it a habit to take some time regularly to slow down and just engage in reflecting about the things you are thankful for. spending as little as five minutes a day has been shown to be effective. if you miss a day, it’s totally fine. it’s important to write everything out because journaling has been shown to activate the right hemisphere of your brain, which is the part of the brain that processes emotions and feelings. as you begin to keep track of things you are grateful for, you will begin to feel happier because of the fact that the right hemisphere of your brain is connecting with those feel good emotions associated with gratefulness. advertising one of the world’s leading experts on the science of gratitude, robert emmons pointed to research showing that expressing your thoughts by writing them down has more advantages than if you just think the thoughts. it makes you more aware of them and can deepen the emotional impact it has on you. basic techniques jason marsh of the greater good magazine at uc berkeley interviewed emmons to ask for tips on how to get the most out of your gratitude journal[4] and here are some of the tips below. don’t just go through the motions. it’s important to be intentional on why you are doing this exercise. instead of doing this because someone is telling you to, think about what you are hoping to gain out of this exercise. take the time to acknowledge you are doing this because cultivating more happiness in your life is important to you. “motivation to become happier plays a role in the efficacy of journaling,” says emmons. go for depth over breadth. after you’ve developed a gratitude journaling habit, it will serve you well to become more specific with the things you are thankful for. being able to express one thing you are deeply thankful for is so much more meaningful than being thankful for a bunch of general superficial things. get personal. taking time to focus on people you are grateful has more of an impact than focusing on things that you are grateful for. try subtraction, not just addition. if you are having trouble coming up with things you are thankful for, one simple trick to spur up some gratitude is to start thinking about how your life would be if you didn’t have some of the things that you have now. savor surprises. keep track of pleasant or unexpected surprises as these are great things to reflect on when you have a chance. you may find reflecting on these moments can bring up stronger feelings of gratitude. emmons goes on to say that he recommends for people to view each item in their gratitude journals as a gift and that the whole process shouldn’t be an errand to do just to get it over with. instead it should be something something you actively engage in to connect with the things you are genuinely thankful for. “in other words, we tell them not to hurry through this exercise as if it were just another item on your to-do list. this way, gratitude journaling is really different from merely listing a bunch of pleasant things in one’s life.” more advanced techniques while having a gratitude journal proves to be helpful, it becomes most impactful when you don’t just keep it to yourself. unlike having a personal journal where it’s meant to be locked up in a secret space, a gratitude journal has the power not to just positively change you, but also the people around you. here are some advanced techniques you can use in your gratitude journaling in order to maximize it’s effectiveness: 1. use your gratitude journal to provide topics for conversations it’s easy to get into conversations that involve gossiping, negativity and pessimism because it’s actually our brain’s way of trying to make ourselves feel better. unfortunately, these kinds of conversations tend to be unproductive and deflating. steering your conversations about things you are grateful for can uplift your own spirits as well as the people you are talking to. what to do? the next time you talk to someone, inject things you are grateful for into the conversation. some ideas include pointing out how nice the weather is, how delicious your meal is, or how much you enjoyed spending time with your friend. 2. tell those you love why you are grateful for them you might be thankful for something your friends or your partner does for you, but gratitude will feel much more powerful when you are thankful for their character. for example, you may be thankful that your partner takes out the trash, but you’re even more thankful because s/he only does it because s/he’s thoughtful enough to know that you hate doing it. advertising it turns out being grateful for people in your life starts a generosity cycle. it makes you willing to do more for them and this likely leads to them responding with gratitude by doing more for you. what to do? write specific things about someone’s character that you are grateful for and keep your journal handy. when you spend time with that person, take a moment to share what you wrote about him or her. 3. use your gratitude journal to write thank you notes the journal of happiness published a study where 219 men and women participants involved wrote three letters of gratitude over a three week period.[5] results showed that writing letters of gratitude increased their happiness and life satisfaction with a decrease depressive symptoms. taking the time to write thank you notes is an extremely simple and easy way to both write out what you’re grateful for and give positive affirmations to someone else in the process. i bought a bulk box of plain thank you cards and i keep it in the house to handwrite thank you notes whenever i have a chance and mail them out. it’s always led to positive experiences. what to do? purchase a set of thank you cards or create your own. once a week, look through your gratitude journal to find something you wrote about someone you’re grateful for and use what you logged to write out a thank you card and mail it out to him or her. 4. let gratitude help shift negative circumstances into positive ones i met a woman named penny in thailand who ran an orphanage with children who were affected by the aids virus. she singlehandedly showed me the power of practicing gratefulness through her own life and it changed my life. she was caring for all these sick children that were not her own, but there was also one huge obstacle: she had cancer. but she didn’t let that stop her. rather than viewing the illness as something that is ruining her life, she shared this with me. advertising “it’s kind of like a death sentence when the doctor says to you ‘you’re hiv positive’ or ‘you have cancer’ and it gives me an ability to identify with these children that are hiv positive, so i’m grateful for cancer because of it, if nothing else.” she is a living example of proof that we can find something to be thankful even in the most difficult situations. i keep this in mind especially when i am going through some of my own tough challenges. what to do? think of a time in your life that was a really tough or sad experience. take a moment to reflect in your journal to see if you can find something you are grateful for as a result of this experience. did the negative experience help you grow in any way? or perhaps it helped you gain the ability to understand or comfort someone else who is going through the same experience? gratitude is the attitude it is said that people feel happier during the thanksgiving holidays because of all the serotonin producing tryptophan that exists in turkey, but that’s actually a myth. turkey doesn’t contain significant amount of tryptophan for it to have such huge effect on your mood. so why is it that people feel so much happier during this time? the answer lies in the name of the holiday itself — thanksgiving. it’s because of something none other than gratefulness. so before you go on and convince yourself that you don’t have much to be thankful for, try starting a gratitude journal. you may find that yourself developing a skill that can be learned to actually make yourself more happier and fulfilled. you will no longer find yourself limited and defined by your current situation, but instead you will be able to find joy regardless of your circumstances. so why not give it a try today? more tips for leading a grateful life 32 things you should be grateful for 10 positive affirmations for success that will change your life 60 things to be thankful for in life featured photo credit: unsplash via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ gallup: the world’s broken workplace [2] ^ scientific american: 1 in 6 americans takes a psychiatric drug [3] ^ wharton health care: the neuroscience of gratitude [4] ^ greater good magazine: tips for keeping a gratitude journal [5] ^ journal of happiness: letters of gratitude: further evidence for author benefits. share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 positive affirmations for success that will change your life writing journal for a better and more productive self (the how-to guide) 5 reasons why you should be grateful advertising advertising more by this author eugene k. choi a life coach who helps people discover how to best utilize their passions and talents through a proven process. how to be happy again: 13 simple ways to shake off sadness now how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to attain self realization (step-by-step guide) 17 tactics to drastically improve communication in relationships 15 ways meditation benefits your brain power and your mood advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author eugene k. choi a life coach who helps people discover how to best utilize their passions and talents through a proven process. how to be happy again: 13 simple ways to shake off sadness now how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to attain self realization (step-by-step guide) 17 tactics to drastically improve communication in relationships 15 ways meditation benefits your brain power and your mood trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) overcome fear and anxiety with these 4 mindset shifts advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.