start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising money smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set financial goals and actually meet them ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement read full profile share pin it tweet share email finances can push anyone to the point of extreme anxiety and worry. easier said than done, planning finances is not an egg meant for everyone’s basket. and that’s why most of us are often living pay check to pay check. but did anyone tell you that it is actually not a tough task to meet your financial goals? in this article, we will explore ways on how to set financial goals and then actually meet them with ease. table of contents 5 steps to set financial goals 11 ways to achieve your financial goals ensuring healthy savings making smart investments the bottom line more tips about personal finance management 5 steps to set financial goals though setting financial goals might seem to be a daunting task but if one has the will and clarity of thought, it is rather easy. try using these steps: 1. be clear about the objectives any goal (let alone financial) without a clear objective is nothing more than a pipe dream. and this couldn’t be more true for financial matters. it is often said that savings is nothing but deferred consumption. therefore if you are saving today, then you should be crystal clear about what it is for. it could be anything like kid’s education, retirement, marriage, that dream vacation, fancy car etc. once the objective is clear, put a monetary value to that objective and the time frame. the important point at this step of goal setting is to list all the objectives, however small they may be, that you foresee in the future and put a value to it. 2. keep them realistic it’s good to be an optimistic person but being a pollyanna is not desirable. similarly, while it might be a good thing to keep your financial goals a bit aggressive, going out of the line will definitely hurt your chances of achieving them. it’s important that you keep your goals realistic in nature for it will help you stay the course and keep you motivated throughout the journey. 3. account for inflation ronald reagan once said – “inflation is as violent as a mugger, as frightening as an armed robber and as deadly as a hitman”. and this quote sums up the best what inflation could do your financial goals. therefore account for inflation whenever you are putting a monetary value to a financial objective that is far away in the future. for example, if one of your financial goal is your son’s college education, which is 15 years hence, then inflation would increase the monetary burden by more than 50% if inflation is mere 3%. so always account for inflation. 4. short term vs long term just like every calorie is not the same, the approach towards achieving every financial goal will not be the same. it is important to bifurcate goals in short term and long term. as a rule of thumb, any financial goal, which is due in next 3 years should be termed as short term goal. any longer duration goals are to be classified as long term goals. this bifurcation of goals into short term vs long term will help in choosing the right investment instrument to achieve them. more on this later when we talk about how to achieve financial goals. advertising 5. to each to his own the journey of setting financial goals is an individualistic affair i.e. your goals are your own goals and are determined by your want to achieve them. a lot of times we get on the bandwagon of goal setting only to realize later on that it was not meant for us. it is important that your goals are actually your goals and not inspired by someone else. take a hard look at this step at all the goals you’ve set for after this step, you will be on the way to achieve them. by now, you would be ready with your financial goals, now it’s time to go all out and achieve them. 11 ways to achieve your financial goals whenever we talk about chasing any financial goal, it is usually a 2 step process – ensuring healthy savings making smart investments you will need to save enough; and invest those savings wisely so that they grow over a period of time to help you achieve goals. so let’s get down to ensuring healthy savings. ensuring healthy savings self realization is the best form of realisation and unless you decide what your current financial position is, you aren’t heading anywhere. this is the focal point from where you start your journey of achieving financial goals. 1. track expenses the first and the foremost thing to be done is to track your monthly expenses. use any of the expense tracking mobile apps to record your expenses. once you start doing it diligently, you would be surprised to see how small expenses add up to a sizeable amount. also categorize those expenses into different bucket so that you know which bucket is eating the most of your pay check. this record keeping will pave the way for cutting down on un-wanted expenses and pump up your savings rate. 2. pay yourself first generally, savings come after all the expenses have been taken care of. this is a classical mistake which almost everyone of us do. we pay ourselves last! ideally, this should be planned upside down. we should be paying ourselves first and then to the world i.e. we should be taking out the planned saving amount first and then manage all the expenses from the rest. the best way to actually implement is to put the savings on automatic mode i.e. money flowing automatically into different financial instruments (for example – mutual funds, retirement corpus etc) every month. taking the automatic route will make us lose control of our money and hence will compel us to manage in what’s left with us thereby increasing the savings rate. 3. make a plan and vow to stick with it budgeting is the best to get around the uncertainty that financial plans always pose. decide in advance how spending has to be made. advertising nowadays, several money management apps and wallets can help you do this automatically. it’s easy and who knows, you may just end up doing what people fail to do. at first, you may not be able to stick to your plans completely but don’t let that become a reason why you stop budgeting entirely. make use of technology solutions you like. explore options and alternatives that let you make use of the available wallet options and choose the one that suits you the most. in time, you will get accustomed to making use of these solutions. you will find that they make it simpler for you to follow your plan, which would have been difficult otherwise. 4. rise again even if you fall let’s be realistic. it’s not like the world will come to an end if you made one mistake. this isn’t called leniency but discipline. if you fail to meet your budget for a month, don’t give up the entire effort just like that. instead, start again. remember that flexible plans are the most realistic plans. so go forward and try to follow your financial goals as planned but if for some reason, the plan gets out of hand for you, do not give up on it just yet. this has a lot to do with your psychology rather than any material commitment. all you have to do is to stay on the road and vow to stay on it, no matter how much you fall down. 5. make savings a habit and not a goal in the book nudge, authors richard thaler and cass sunstein advocate that in order to achieve any goal, it should be broken down into habits since habits are more intuitive for people to adapt to. make savings a habit rather than a goal. while it might seem to be counter intuitive to many but there are some deft ways of doing it. for example: always eat out (if at all) during weekdays rather than weekends. usually weekends are expensive. make it a habit and you would in turn be saving a great deal. if you are travelling buff, try to travel during off season. your outlay will be much less. if you go out for shopping, always look out for coupons and see where can you get the best deal. so the key point is to imbibe the action that results in savings rather than on the savings itself, which is the outcome. focusing on the outcome will bring out the feeling of sacrifice which will be harder to sustain over a period of time. advertising 6. talk about it sticking to the saving schedule (to achieve financial goals) is not an easy journey. there will be many distractions from those who are not aligned with your mission. and it would be rather easy to lose the grip over your discipline. therefore in order to stay the course, it is advisable that you keep yourself surrounded with people who are also on the same bandwagon. daily discussions with them will keep you motivated to move forward. 7. maintain a journal for some people, writing helps a great deal in making sure that they achieve what they plan. so if you are one of them, maintain a proper journal, where you write down your goals and also jot down the extent to which you managed to meet them. this will help you in reviewing how far you have come and which goals you have met. use this journal to write down all essential points such as your short term, mid term and long term goals, your current sources of income, your regular expenses which you are aware of and any committed expenses which are of recurring nature. when you have a written commitment on paper, you are going to feel more energised to follow the plan and stick to it. moreover, it is going to be a lot more easier for you to follow you and track your progress. at this point, you should be ready with your financial goals and would be doing brilliantly with savings; now it’s time to talk about the big daddy – investments. making smart investments savings by themselves don’t take anyone too far. however savings when invested wisely can do wonders and we are at that stage where we will talk about making smart investments. 8. consult a financial advisor investments doesn’t come naturally to most of us therefore rather than dabbling with it ourselves, it is wise to consult a financial advisor. talk to him/her about your financial goals and savings and then seek advice for the best investment instruments to achieve your goals. 9. choose your investment instrument wisely though your financial advisor will suggest the best investment instruments, it doesn’t hurt to know a bit about them. just like “no one is born a criminal”, no investment instrument is bad or good. it is the application of that instrument that makes all the difference. do you remember we talked about bifurcating financial goals in short term and long term? it is here where that classification will help. advertising so as a general rule, for all your short term financial goals, choose an investment instrument that has debt nature for example fixed deposits, debt mutual funds etc. the reason for going for debt instruments is that chances of capital loss is less as compared to equity instruments. 10. compounding is the eighth wonder einstein once remarked about compounding, compound interest is the eighth wonder of the world. he who understands it, earns it… he who doesn’t… pays it. so make friends with this wonder kid. and sooner you become friends with it, quicker you will reach closer to your financial goals. start investing early so that time is on your side to help you bear the fruits of compounding. 11. measure, measure, measure all of us do good when it comes to earning more per month but fail miserably when it comes to measuring the investments; taking stock of how our investments are doing. if there is one single step where everything (so far) can go wrong, it is at this step – measuring the progress. if we don’t measure the progress timely, then we would be shooting in the dark. we wouldn’t know if our saving rate is appropriate or not; whether financial advisor is doing a decent job; whether we are moving closer to our target or not. do measure everything. if you can’t measure it all yourself, ask your financial advisor to do it for you. but do it! the bottom line this completes the list of tips for you to set financial goals and actually achieve them with not so great difficulty. as you can see, all it requires is discipline. but guess that’s the most difficult part! more tips about personal finance management 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind top 10 recommendations on money management apps featured photo credit: rawpixel via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work advertising advertising more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next top 10 recommendations on money management apps how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising advertising habit money smartcut advertising last updated on march 11, 2020 9 millionaire success habits that will inspire your life leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email as technology evolves and information becomes more accessible, it has also become more challenging to define success. a lot of people are trapped in the rat race while trying to discover the actual formula for success. you could become overwhelmed with what tools, techniques or philosophies to imbibe while trying to get tips over the internet. at every click and turn, there are ‘how-tos and quick-fix’ on how to become successful overnight. you will find several courses, articles, videos and books on how to achieve financial success. but what if i tell you it doesn’t have to be complicated as people made it out to be? what if you could achieve success by merely following these 9 millionaire success habits? 1. read for personal development a daily habit i have discovered millionaire share in common is reading. for instance, if you are an entrepreneur, you need to read to become an efficient leader and a productive business owner. reading helps you to grow and learn without going to a business school. a research conducted by thomas crowley indicates about 85% of self-made millionaires read at least two or more books each month. [1] warren buffett is one of these examples. he spends 80% of his day reading. in the early days of his investment career, he would read 600 to 1000 pages in a single day. while millionaires sometimes read for pleasure, they also learn to improve themselves. they read topics on leadership, how-tos, self-help, biographies, lifehacks and also follow current events. here’re some recommendations for you: 25 best self improvement books to read no matter how old you are 2. establish multiple sources of income another success habit i noticed about success is that they don’t depend on a single income source. every millionaire possesses multiple sources of income. this helps them to manage economic challenges and also make more money. they are passive income addicts. they earn interests from loans, rental income from real estate, royalties from intellectual properties, dividends from investments. they also launch a side business or run a website or sell information products. how income is made either passively or actively is what separates the successful from the wannabes. they are always learning ways to build multiple streams of income. advertising 3. live on a stipulated monthly budget an average millionaire does not believe in luck and jackpot. they take the time to understand cashflow-income and expenses. based on this, they establish a monthly budget and religiously stick to it. the essence of the budget is to minimize unnecessary expenses. this will help you gain complete control of your financial life. budgeting helps you to avoid overspending to achieve your financial goals. here’re some tips to help you stuck to your budget: 32 hacks for sticking to your budget 4. manage and maximize money the most significant education for a millionaire is financial intelligence. nobody attains financial freedom without gaining financial intelligence. this is the more reason millionaire regardless of their income update their knowledge about tax strategies. they always seek to reduce their tax bills. one approach they employ is by living or incorporating their business in states with no income tax. do you know that about 60 companies paid $0 legally in the 2018 tax year? some of these companies that ‘avoided'(note: not evaded) federal income tax include chevron, amazon, halliburton, general motors, delta. the total income. their total us income was totaled at $79 billion with an effective tax rate of -5%. what’s the deal? they got a tax refund. how do they accomplish these? an itep report indicated that they have the culture of throwing huge sums at tax experts who assist them in discovering creative, as well as convoluted means of paying little tax as much as possible.[2] 5. avoid debt another habit that separates the millionaires from the rest of the world is how they manage debt. they don’t live an extravagant lifestyle and only buy what they need and can pay for. they do not book hotels and flights by using their credit cards to pay for them. they are conscious of the interest rates even when they use credits cards or take loans. they use those facilities for their advantage or pay with cash because of its zero percent interest rate. advertising 6. set daily goals it does not matter if they are setting business, career, or financial projections; they have the success habit of setting short term goals. they plan daily and weekly to generate momentum in achieving their long-term goals. ensure you prioritize when setting daily goals. this will help you to achieve the most important to-dos on your list. setting priorities will help you to focus on highly rewarding activities. if you desire financial freedom, it is wise to pursue activities that earn you thousands of dollars than hundreds of dollars. 7. don’t act rich the goal is not to act rich but to be productive. interestingly, thomas stanley buttressed this in his book that the most prestige brands of cars, about 86% percent are toys of the non-millionaires. people with huge fortunes tend to drive exotic cars but in reality, the largest consumers of pricey cars are aspirational.[3] according to findings by experian automotive researchers, 61% of individuals who earn $250,000 or more rarely buy luxury brands. instead, they buy hondas, toyotas, and fords like the rest of the world. the reason is they are not ready to spend money on premium cars that tend to drop in value in a couple of years as it would cost money. millionaires invest in assets that appreciate.[4] 8. own or buy businesses in robert kiyosaki’s cashflow quadrant, he divided how you earn income into four quadrants. the e and the s quadrants take the left position while the b and the i are on the right side. according to robert, it is possible to be on all quadrants, but the millionaires are not.[5] e stands for employee – they work for others s stands for self-employed – they work for themselves b stands for a business owner- employees work for them (500 or more employees) i stand for investors – money work for them like warren buffet. your goal is to move from the left quadrant to the right quadrants where you own big businesses or make money work for you. it is possible to become financially successful by pursuing what you love. for instance, if you love writing, aspire to be the best seller. wealth and passion work together. check out how to start a small business with little to no money for tips. 9. avoid get-rick-quick scheme a millionaire holds patience as an essential virtue. it takes patience to become successful, not only in finance but in every aspect of life. while it is possible to become financially successful at an early age, most millionaires hit it at age 50. they live a moderate life, invest in their future and retire rich. advertising bonus: how to develop the millionaire success habits? having learned these habits, the next question is, how can i develop the millionaire success habits? here are six values you will need to develop: establish your life vision you need to be clear about what you want in life to set yourself for a life of success. your vision has to go beyond becoming a millionaire to understanding why you want to become one. any great entrepreneur you will ever find has a clear vision and an established mission. understanding why you are doing what you do will drive you to become the kind of successful person you want to be. make your passion a profession when your passion becomes your profession, work becomes pleasurable. loving what you do enables money to flow to you and through you. so what’s going to be? wake up every morning by speaking positive words into your work, love what you do, and focus on the work that brings you joy. take a look at this article and learn how to make it happen: 5 steps to turn your passion into a career focus on solution focusing on the solution means establishing the problem that you or your business address. this will help you focus on the solutions when others are faced with challenges. a millionaire has a mindset that is fixed on the solution. he or she knows there’s a way out, and that every problem is an opportunity in disguise. advertising improve your problem solving skills with these tips: 6 effective ways to enhance your problem solving skills develop your leadership skills leadership skills are an asset that is indispensable if you want to develop a millionaire success habit. the more you hone your leadership skills, the more you will attract leaders who share your values. be growth-focused millionaire entrepreneurs prioritize self-improvement. here’s how to achieve it: get a coach. coaching will impact your life, and you will achieve peak performance in life and business when you have a life coach. be coachable. it is not enough to have a coach; you must be coachable. sometimes, you need feedback and counsel to reposition your life and business. a coach has the wisdom and experience to counsel you from a higher perspective. the more you receive feedback and work on yourself, the more you become better at what you do and who you are. flip your thought pattern from acting to being it is not enough to have a millionaire success habit, you must also become a person of positive influence. this is how you can become significant. bill gates is not only rich; he is changing lives in africa and different parts of the world. if you want to become successful, you must first be and think like a successful person. this is how resources you need can flow into your life. here’s a final thought from me: it is not enough to do something to have something; success is about being someone who possesses what is needed to take positive and inspired actions. more success habits 23 goals in life to achieve for personal success 50 habits of highly successful people you should learn 12 weekend habits of highly successful people featured photo credit: austin distel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ tom corely: how many books does the average self-made millionaire read? [2] ^ fortune.com: how these fortune 500 companies (legally) paid $0 in taxes last year [3] ^ thomas stanley: stop acting rich and start living like a real millionaire [4] ^ forbes: what the rich people really drive [5] ^ rich dad fundamentals: the cashflow quadrant share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to learn quickly and master any skill you want how to set short term goals for a successful life 23 goals in life to achieve for personal success advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to start a small business with little to no money how to prioritize right in 10 minutes and work 10x faster how to be an effective leader (a step-by-step guide to upgrade your leadership skills) how to create multiple streams of income to make extra money about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.