home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty personal finance competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding how late is too late to plan for retirement? (ad feature) miss thrifty2 october 21, 2016 confession time: when aviva approached me, to ask if i’d review a new pension planning web tool on the aviva website, it seemed like perfect timing. the pension planning tool is called shape my future and recently i’ve been worrying that my future is looking… well, pear-shaped. one reason for this is the lingering and uncomfortable knowledge that i could – and most certainly should – be stashing more cash into my pension schemes every month. we don’t talk about pension savings very much (we are british, after all – and it’s money). like a lot of people my age, however, i have spent a good deal of my adult life job-hopping, trying to get my own ventures off the ground and plunging all the savings i had into a house deposit. in terms of pension planning, my 20s were a disaster. then i panicked about what retirement would – or wouldn’t – bring and began paying all i could into a private pension plan. to date, i have nearly £16k socked away. with all the financial ups and downs our household has had, it took a lot to get it there – but at this rate, i doubt it’s going to be enough. i also belong to a pension scheme at my current workplace, but it’s modest – through my own making. my employer pays a fixed percentage of my qualifying earnings, which i can top up by as little or as much as i choose. right now the total contributions stand at the £150 per month mark. so i’m conflicted: i’m pretty sure i should be paying in more, perhaps a lot more, for a safe and cosy retirement. this should be a priority. at the same time, there are a lot of other pressures on my wallet. the ancient boiler is on the last of its nine lives, the house needs a full rewire (let’s not go there), car woes have seriously depleted my emergency fund, but my savings are shot after a few months of statutory maternity pay… you get the picture. what worries me even more is that the state pension no longer feels secure. will it even exist by the time my generation reaches retirement age? even now, certain groups reaching retirement age in the uk are being short-changed. take my mum. she is a waspi woman: born in the 1950s, she is having to wait longer than expected for her state pension to kick in, thanks to the government postponing her pension age with relatively little notice. having written to her pusillanimous mp, to no avail, she has joined the ranks of the waspi campaign: women affected by the unfair changes who are fighting, hard, for a fairer deal. success is far from assured: just a few weeks ago, the current pensions minister stated there would be “no compromise”. if the state pension goalposts are moving at such a rapid rate now, where on earth are they going to be in 30 years’ time? it compounds my growing anxiety that, unless i pull out my finger pretty sharpish, retirement is going to suck. so here i am, looking at the shape my future tool, hands poised uncertainly over mouse and keyboard. the aviva people tell me the shape my future tool is a “light-hearted, approximate look at how the choices you make now might impact your later life.” frankly, although the tool couldn’t be easier to use, i still feel anxious. it calculates how much income you may have in retirement, and compares it to your likely outgoings. i’m going to give this tool a whirl. come join me! in a post next week, i’ll set out the results and work out what the heck i need to do. is there still hope – or is it tap-water sandwiches from here on out? to be continued… this post was produced in association with aviva. i’m not-so-secretly pleased to have been approached by aviva to work with them on the shape my future project, partly because they are paying me, but mostly because i really do need a foot up my backside in order to confront my pension demons. ‘pension demons’? they must wear bowler hats, right? anyway, the aviva shape my future tool uses simple inputs to give a basic idea of retirement income. details of assumptions are available at aviva.co.uk. image credit: roberto trombetta, used under a creative commons licence. did you enjoy this post? share the love miss thrifty on: free daily digest get the latest posts and deals by emails: 2 responses to “how late is too late to plan for retirement? (ad feature)” harleen quinzel says: usually in our youth we don’t think about how and what it will be once we get retired.this is common to everyone.but when we get closer to our retirement age we start thinking about requesting extensions and working on contract basis.but if we have planned our retirement earlier we will be able to handle this situation.saving for the future will be the answer for this problem.i also started saving with a bank which had a special scheme for people who are above the retirement age. april 3, 2017 at 3:47 am mike says: thanks for the great blog and post! pension is tricky and scare and i totally agree, when young – we don’t think about it and when getting older and we see these pension predictions and estimates of a few £ per month it is scary. i actually think that – regardless of the age – investing in getting the new skills for retirement is a good investment. think what is likely to be in demand at the time of your retirement, something you really like, and learn basis of it. when you retire you will have a nice part time job to top up your pension. i am treating my monthly contributions to the state pension and private pension just the same as the tax (has to be paid) thanks april 22, 2017 at 7:58 pm leave a reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked *leave a comment *your email address will not be published.your name * your email * your website get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google