 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog how to make a website the definitive guide to creating a website in 2020 written by anya skrba updated: february 09, 2020 whether you want to create a website or simply improve the old one, you’ll have to follow some simple, yet essential rules of how to make a website. some people assume that building a website for the first time is going to be complicated and confusing. that’s why i’ve written this free ultimate guide where you’ll find step-by-step instructions to help you go through the whole website set up process. it’ll cover everything from the type of software you should use to the web page design to the final touches before the successful launch of your website. additionally, you will also learn how to use wordpress and make your own website look beautiful. note in this guide, i’m going to teach you how to create a website from scratch with the most popular content management system (cms) – wordpress.org. skip the intro and jump to “step #2: create a website using wordpress” creating a website is a straightforward task and can be done in 20-30 minutes as long as you follow the steps outlined below. this tutorial is designed for beginners (no technical or coding skills needed). at the end of the day, you will have your own domain name and a fully functional website. how to make a website in 5 easy steps step #1: pick a domain name and hosting provider step #2: create a website using wordpress step #3: design a website for maximum impact step #4: write and prepare your content step #5: test your website before and after launch before you go into the action steps on how to make a website, let me quickly explain some valuable facts on choosing the right platform for your new site. select the right tool to make a website websites are a crucial part of your online presence, but with so many popular platforms out there, finding the right one can be challenging. it’s difficult because there are too many of them, but you are going to use this software for a long time – so choose carefully. when making a website, you have a wide variety of options: wordpress, wix, joomla, squarespace, and you can even learn how to code a website from scratch. however, the best and most popular tool for starting a website is wordpress cms. we used it to create firstsiteguide.com and it’s recommended by 90 percent of the experts we’ve surveyed. wordpress is the easiest option to create your own website and manage it. of course, it is the most common technology used to build a website on the web nowadays. you can make any type of website with wordpress, be it one-page business card site, a site with a blog, and even an e-commerce site. types of websites you can set up with wordpress: blog or site with a blog business card site portfolio site product brochure site e-commerce site note: don’t get caught up with all the available platforms. keep reading, most web hosting providers offer easy one-click-install setup option for all the cmses, including wordpress. now let’s learn how to make a wordpress website using easy one-click install process shown below. step #1: pick a domain name and hosting provider apart from wordpress recommendations, you should know about the importance of the right domain name and your website’s host. domain name your domain name should represent your business and brand appropriately because it is the first thing customers and prospects associate with you. it could be your name or your business name i.e. yourname.com or yourbusiness.com, respectively. i recommend bluehost to check the availability of your chosen domain name – get the “.com” extension if possible. here’s a bonus for my readers: an exclusive offer of a free domain name along with a 30-day money-back guarantee! recommended tool: web hosting provider choosing a reliable web hosting provider is essential as this service will make sure that your website is available to the readers round the clock and that all your videos and images are available to them. picking the wrong web host can seriously downgrade your website’s performance and functionality. it’s a lot like choosing a mobile sim company – buying the cheaper one also means very weak service, making it completely useless. hosting is a major part of the puzzle that is your online website – when it comes to reliability, bluehost’s popularity matches no other. step #2: create a website using wordpress wordpress – the most famous cms (content management system), has been used to build 49% of the world’s biggest websites. as far as wordpress is concerned, there are two ways to install it: one-click wordpress install wordpress can be installed with a single click – and it even comes pre-installed with many hosts. no matter which hosting company you use, setting up a wordpress free website is very easy. bluehost is a web hosting company that is recommended by wordpress as one of the best hosts. this section explains how you can register with bluehost and subsequently install wordpress using the ‘one-click install’ button. bluehost rated #1 in web hosting for small businesses 1: visit the bluehost site go to bluehost.com and click on the “get started now” button. 2: select a hosting plan to start a website if you are a beginner, choose the basic plan as it will cover all the fundamental needs of your website’s functioning. once your website takes off and starts receiving heavy traffic, you can consider upgrading to the prime version of your hosting plan, which offers advanced features better suited to handle the massive inflow of traffic. 3: input your website’s domain name the domain name for your site has a significant part to play in its success. so, before you master how to create a website, make sure you invest enough time and effort to come up with a unique and catchy domain name. once you’ve decided upon your domain name, type it into the “new domain” box, after which bluehost indicates whether your desired domain name is available or not. in case it is not possible, it’ll also provide you with a list of alternatives that you can choose from. 4: register for bluehost watch website set up instructions bluehost will then take you the registration form, where you’ll fill in the billing details along with your personal information. 5: select your hosting options the 12-month package offers the basics at the lowest price. but you can also consider the other two options – after all, hosting is a long-term investment in your site’s development. you could always remove unnecessary features from your package in the initial stages of your site launch and add them back later, whenever you feel the need. 6: set your password you’ll set your password after you’ve entered your payment information, as the final step in registering yourself with bluehost. this same password will be used for verification purposes. 7: login to your new account congratulations! you are now the proud owner of a brand new website. login to your bluehost account to proceed with the setup. 8: choose your wordpress theme view make a website infographic now you’ll be given an option to choose a wordpress theme – pick one that suits your brand and represents your website in the best way. if none of the displayed options work, visit wordpress.org repository to choose a theme from the choices shown there. 9: welcome to wordpress you’ll be greeted by a “welcome” message once you’ve logged in after which, bluehost will guide you in creating a website for your business. in case you don’t need supervision when setting up a website, it also offers you the option to continue on your own. your site is ready for launch once this step is complete. manual wordpress install if the host you’ve chosen doesn’t offer one-click installation for wordpress, you can follow the instructions on wordpress.org to install it manually. recommended reading: how to install wordpress cms setting up wordpress and managing your website wordpress powers almost 27 percent of the entire internet wordpress works in two ways: the front end as the name suggests, this page will be visible to your visitors whenever they access your site. the tasks usually performed in the back-end like the plugin functionality enhancements, and the customization of your theme will be visible to you and your visitors on the front-end of your wordpress website. it also allows actions like commenting and sharing on other social mediums to be performed from the front-end by you and your incoming visitors as well. the back end this is commonly known as the wordpress dashboard – this is where you can oversee and manage every aspect of your site’s content, functionality, and web design. if you want to access your wordpress dashboard, type “yourwebsite.com/wp-admin” into the address bar of your search engine. here log in using your wordpress username and the password you set for your account. there are 72 translations of wordpress the dashboard the wordpress dashboard handles your website’s administration. the left-side column is the hub of all administrative options and is the place from where your website’s structure originates from. the left-side column the components of the left-side column include: home – the home button takes you back to your main dashboard. updates – this bit informs you whether any new plugins or themes are available that need to be updated or installed because a new version has been released. if so, you’ll see a red circle with a number in it, which indicates the number of updates that are needed. media – every video, file or a photo that you’ve ever uploaded, either as a separate item or as part of a post, will be shown in this section. you can also upload directly to this section. comments – these are the comments that your visitors leave on the content on your site. if you have any new comments that you haven’t viewed, their number will be shown in a red circle over this item in the left-side column. appearance – this section will show you all the options related to your wordpress website’s design, i.e. all the features, themes, and designs. pages – you can manage all the pages of your site, for example, the “contact us” page or the “about us” page from this section. plugins – these mini-programs are integrated into your website and help increase its functionality. you can use them to convert your site into a membership site or do something fancy, like adding the social media icons for social sharing. settings – this is where you go in case you want to make technical changes to your site. for example, if you want to add a feature to your hosting plan, this is where it’ll happen. recommended tutorial: the beginner’s guide to managing wordpress website step #3: design a website for maximum impact the importance of a visual effect is no secret for anyone trying to attract online traffic and increase their conversion rates. your visitors will leave your site within seconds if the first look doesn’t appeal to them. imagine coming across a well-structured, color-coordinated website as compared to landing on a bland all-over-the-place webpage – now do you understand the significance of creating stunning visuals? that’s why, when building a website from scratch, it’s essential to work on its web design keeping in view the general aesthetics of your brand – this is what keeps a visitor hooked to your site. it depends on the type of website you’ll building and if you are using a web builder or any other cms as that would limit your options to a specific number of pre-made themes and templates. web design best practices mandate that you: use a clean, structured design ensure that your web design is optimized for a mobile device make sure that your web design fits your business’ objectives and its niche make sure that your plan makes navigation easy enrich the web design with unique elements find the right theme your theme should always suit the style and brand persona of your business. for instance, a pastel-pink bakery theme might be free to use, but it wouldn’t be the right fit for a steel manufacturing company site. what’s more, it needs to impress your visitors and convince them to spend time on your website as they browse through your content. if your website doesn’t evoke confidence and trust, it can suffer from high bounce rates as visitors won’t take long to exit your site. if you use wordpress to make your own website, you’ll have access to a wide variety of themes to choose from. it’s essential to have an idea about which features you want to incorporate into your site as it will help you filter out irrelevant themes. here are a few important points to focus on while you make a list of the features; clear navigation it is vital to have an accessible site where your visitors can find and access the info they need quickly. to achieve this aim, you need to have a clear view of the type of navigation you want – ‘top navigation’ is the most popular. also, know that your chosen theme might not support the kind of navigation you need. integrating social media social media can bring traffic to your site, making it essential to incorporate sharing icons onto your website which, again, might not be supported by all themes. contact form if the purpose of your site is to collect leads and contact info from potential buyers, you’ll have to put up a contact form as well. it also helps your visitors get in touch while you fill up your email lists effortlessly. comments section this section can help improve viewership and audience engagement as it allows them to express their opinions and interact with your brand after reading your content. most sites have the comment section enabled in the blog area to facilitate dialogue. search bar having a search bar on your website helps your visitors navigate your site easily by showing them results specific to their search query. so, if your site holds a lot of content, a search bar will prove very useful. but then again, if you want this in-built feature, be cautious of the themes that don’t offer it. favicon and logo support branding should be one of the top priorities when creating your website – because the higher the degree of association that it portrays with your company’s identity, the better. if you wish to brand your website with your company’s logo and its color palette to provide an enhanced and more personalized user experience, you should choose from those themes that support such customizations. e-commerce support you may not require this feature initially, but you might decide to convert your site into an online shop later. so, to be on the safe side, choose a theme that can provide e-commerce support to your site. seo – search engine optimization optimizing your website for the search engines helps it rank higher in the search results, which improves your site’s visibility. wordpress offers two options: seo-based themes powerful seo plugins that can be incorporated into your site premium vs. free themes given the number of wordpress themes out there, the whole process of designing a website can become quite overwhelming. the toughest decision that you’ll take while choosing a theme for your site would be choosing between free or premium. though the free themes offer all the essential features required by your website to function smoothly, which makes them very tempting and cost-effective, it is the premium ones that contribute significantly more advanced features and are visually more appealing. if you wish to build a simple site initially and save the expenses for later when you need a professional design, choosing a free theme is a right fit for you. but do bear in mind that free themes come will little or no support. however, premium themes offer complete support and a variety of advanced features for which they charge a reasonable price. the support includes assistance on issues like bugs and the installation of plug-ins etc. moreover, another advantage of choosing a premium theme for your website is its constant cycle of updates, which means that they will offer better security and regular bug fixes. in short, choosing a premium theme provides an overall better experience than a free theme, for you and your visitors alike. responsiveness is an industry-standard with the increase in the usage of smartphones, there is a high chance that your visitor is opening your site on his mobile phone. a non-responsive design won’t fit well on the mobile screen – which might lead to a high bounce rate. therefore, you must make your website with responsive web design as it’s an industry-standard in the modern digital age. when you choose a theme for your site, make sure that it looks good at all sizes and types of screens. font and color your brand’s design and color aesthetics should be used on your website as well – these factors keep your visitors interested in browsing through the content on your site. if both fonts and colors are used consistently, they can make your branding efforts more effective. so, while creating your own website, ensure that the theme you choose offers you; a choice of customized fonts and color palettes apart from the built-in ones options to manage colors and backgrounds separately for different sections of your website test it out the best way to check whether a theme works for you or not is to test it. so, set up your website and let it go live – now take your time to go page by page and check if the plugins, design elements, content, and other aspects of the site are working well. additionally, you’ll be able to see the final finished look of your website with all the uploaded content and decide whether it suits your brand aesthetics. moreover, you can also check some pre-built demo sites with the same theme. or, you could go to the theme author’s website, and from there, visit live sites that have used the same theme you’ve chosen to see their functioning and the final outlook. recommended reading: the best wordpress themes for 2019 step #4: write and prepare your content the word ‘content’ can refer to everything visible on your website. that’s why it is essential to create unique, seo optimized, creative content to convey your message across to your visitors. if ignored, badly-created content frustrates and confuses the visitor and compels them to leave your site. once your website’s framework is created, it’s time to work on the content before the launch. it’s perfectly fine to have the necessary information and a few blog posts on your site when it goes live – but the best way to always build your site up is to continue creating quality content that can increase its rank, the engagement on it, and its visibility. ask yourself the following questions when creating new content: will it be relevant and exciting for your targeted audience? how should it be presented to your targeted audience? moreover, do you know that search engines reward sites that produce top content by ranking them higher in their search results? this is why businesses allocate quite a lot of their time and resources to create quality content that is not only informative but also relevant to their audiences. unique, up-to-date, and relevant is what your content should be! create content and promote your website the basis pages there is a very good chance that the theme you’ve chosen already has the basic pages – all you need to do input the required info. to see which pages have already been created for you, visit the pages section in your dashboard. here, if you can see ‘about us’, ‘contact us’, ‘blog’, and ‘product/service’ – you’re good to go. but if you don’t then, click the ‘add new’ button on your pages window to create pages on your website. now let’s learn about these pages in detail: about us page if the visitor wants to know about your company’s business and the type of products or services it offers, they will be visiting head straight to the ‘about us’ page on your site. that’s why it is important to use this page wisely and put all your essential information there. it introduces your company to the visitors – the right content here can help you build viable relationships and instill trust in your audience. here, you can be candid about what your company does and its plans for the future. if your website sells something, make sure you mention those products and services here, as well. everything you write here should be easy to understand because your prospects may not be aware of the technical jargon of your industry. furthermore, try to keep the content creative and use the page to portray your company’s persona rather than treating it as another sales pitch. use a more conversational tone to increase your conversion rate as this will help increase the chances of your visitors responding to a cta (call to action). if you wish to put a face to your cyber identity, i.e. your website, you could also upload pictures of yourself and your team, introducing them all one by one. this will help build trust amongst your visitors as it gives your site a more personal touch – in effect, this will give your credibility a significant boost. contact us page this page serves two purposes: firstly, it is used by visitors that want to get in touch with you secondly, it serves as proof to visitors that yours is a legitimate business with an office and an actual point of contact so, mention your contact information and your company’s address here, to assure your audience of your reliability and the fact that you can cater to their needs. apart from the regular contact form, the following information should also be mentioned on this page: the name of the contact person along with their designation in the company your company’s name your company’s email address the address of your company (if you have a physical building) your company’s legal information the privacy and support policy your company follows the business days and hours for your company and if your theme allows for it, add a map that shows your location to the visitors as well. blog page the blog section has the potential to attract leads and convert them as well. but most website owners have difficulty deciding blog topics – i recommend that you let your company’s objectives guide you on that front. you can also share your insights related to topics that can interest your readers and your industry at large. your blogs can be comprehensive guides or about technical data and trends, etc. – providing your readers with detailed information that they won’t be able to find anywhere else online or on your site. as discussed earlier, an essential step in increasing the popularity of your website is the quality of your content. as blogs are a type of long-form content, polishing them with relevant information, infographics and images enhance their visibility. furthermore, because blogs are more like an informal conversation and education for your readers, it will be fruitful to add a comments section where you can respond to your reader’s comments and resolve their queries. of course, a successful blog takes a considerable amount of planning. your blog content plan: creating content for your blog is a difficult task on its own. but you also need to consistently write, publish, and share them to see any worthwhile results. for this, a content strategy and content planning are necessary. when you plan your blog to provide quality content, it will result in increased traffic to your site and ultimately improved sales. so, let’s see what this plan shall include: pick a topic for your blog – usually of a general nature choose the topics and sub-topics to cover in your blog write your blog posts create a schedule for the blog posts and stick to it service/product page this page is mainly used to list and describe your products and services – consider it an online catalog for your business. to ensure that the content on-page is up to the mark, you will need to: post high-quality pictures of all your products from various angles for your customers to see post a convincing description of your product, one that covers all the critical details, in the description box furthermore, if your website supports various options of payment, mention them clearly to inform your customers. any information regarding return policy, the rights, and liabilities of both parties in the transaction, and return or exchange can also be mentioned here. recommended reading: the beginner’s guide to creating a great content website promotion campaigns now that you’ve built the site and populated it with the right kind of content, it’s time to attract the visitors – since it’s a new website, you cannot leave it to chance. also, it’s common knowledge that you can’t monetize your website or your blog on zero traffic, so employ tactics to attract more viewers. for this, promoting your content becomes crucial as it will not only increase the inflow of your site’s traffic but also help your business capture relevant leads and generate better revenue. know your target audience and their preferred social media platform so you can approach them there and present your content in a way that’s irresistible for them. create hype about your new blog post by telling your followers what it’s about and how it adds value for them, followed by your website’s link for that blog post. when promoting your site’s content on social, it’s essential to get the timing right. that’s the only way to get the most traction for your posts, headlines, and snippets. if you post when most of your audience is browsing, there’s a higher chance of getting views, comments, and reactions. to make it more personal, consider thanking your audience at the end of every blog post for taking out time for your content. because when it comes to converting your leads, a little appreciation goes a long way! recommended reading: how to promote your website and its content step #5: test your website before and after launch testing your site before launching it is crucial to ensure its success. here are several types of tests: beta testing with the long process and technicalities involved in making your own website, the process of a test run can be quite overwhelming – you won’t be able to pick a point to start. nonetheless, testing your site before its launch is essential. don’t worry; i’ve compiled a few points that you can check before launching your website: your content for spelling or punctuation mistakes, etc. design-based elements like the alignment of images, the fonts used, etc. site’s development issues like broken links, etc. seo details like optimized meta titles and proper usage of primary keywords, etc. administration areas to inspect, include your back-up systems and any issues related to your hosting, etc. post-launch testing once you’ve launched your site, you need to have a firm strategy in place regarding the next steps for your website’s growth and maintenance. some areas that should be covered include the following: adequate backup collection of visitor’s feedback a maintenance team should be available as and when needed preparations for promotion and measurement of various metrics additional: make money with your website now that you’ve learned about making a website, populating it with the right kind of content, and promoting it, it’s time to monetize all your efforts. let’s make some real money via your site using the following tactics and strategies: affiliate marketing affiliate marketing can help you earn commission by letting other brands and companies use your website and blogs for marketing their products. many online businesses and advertisers are on the search for relevant sites and blogs in the same niche as them, to help them sell their products across their audience. so when you build your own website, consider this strategy for making money through your site. ad space this refers to the white space on your website where ads can be posted. when your website’s traffic skyrockets, you can turn this space into a money-making machine in two ways: use google adsense to start, handle and maintain this flow of revenue, or; sell this white space on your site directly to other brands and companies to display their ads on your website many sites have an “advertise with us” page where they sell spaces at fixed prices to other brands – you can do that as well. advertisers might want to see your website’s statistics – you can find these with various tools like google analytics to help your ad clients make an informed investment based on your viewership and engagement numbers. online store selecting a theme that provides e-commerce support can later help you turn your site into an online store. if you are a business that’s already selling a list of products and services, you can use your website to target online customers as well. for this to work, you’ll need to: increase your site’s security invest in a secure and reliable payment gateway creating an online store with wordpress using woocommerce the most famous wordpress plug-in for online businesses is woocommerce. it offers many extensions and themes that might be free or come at a premium charge – all of which can help you create an online store. this plugin enables you to create an online shop, upload your products and services, manage and modify them as well as handle all your payment and shipping methods. due to its popularity, easy usage, and multiple extensions, woocommerce is a part of more than 30% of all online stores. combining woocommerce and wordpress can help you create your own website and convert it into an online store in a matter of days. fortunately, because of their friendly user interface, these tools also save you from a steep learning curve. it’s easier than ever to design your store, update your product list, and add all the attractive features to entice your customers and have them revisit your website. note 1: wordpress is widely used because it is user-friendly and versatile – you won’t need to spend a lot of time to learn the mechanics of how to start a website with wordpress. the sky’s the limit to what you can do with wordpress as it can help you create large commercial websites, small portfolio sites and everything in between. note 2: owing to this versatility, numerous developers, coders, and programmers also work with wordpress so you won’t have to worry about how to code your own website. they design all the themes and ecommerce plug-ins along with new features that you can add to your wordpress site. recommended reading: how to make money from your website frequently asked questions how can i create a website? creating a website nowadays is not as complicated as it used to be. today, you don’t have to know much about technology to build and successfully run your own site. that’s because there are more than a few popular software options available that are designed for the new to web users. the first thing you should do to get started is to choose a tool for making a website. i suggest trying self-hosted wordpress.org cms. to launch a wordpress website you will have to take the following steps: choose a reliable hosting provider and register a domain install wordpress software choose a theme and customize it to your needs how to build a wordpress website? building a website with wordpress is pretty much a straightforward process. today, you don’t even have to hire a developer to do it for you because you can do it yourself. creating a wordpress website starts with deciding on a domain name and choosing a hosting company. i always recommend bluehost, where you can get a free domain name and excellent hosting services for a low price. once set with your domain name and a hosting account, you can start focusing on how to build a website with wordpress. with bluehost, installing wordpress is done simply by the click of a button. they offer a one-click installation and everything should be done in several minutes. after logging in to the admin dashboard, you can start the hard work. the first thing you will want to do is check the appearance tab where you get to change themes, work on the layout of your new site, pick main fonts, add header images, and so on. although you can wrap it up in just a few minutes, this probably isn’t something you have been looking for. creating a wordpress website should be fun to do, and you will probably want to spend days, if not weeks, on making it perfect. how much does it cost to start a website? it depends on various factors, but if you choose to create your own website with wordpress, then it will cost you less than $50 – hosting with bluehost will only be $2.95 a month, which includes a custom domain. but if you wish to go premium, then investing in a theme will cost you about between $40 – $120. on the other side, a custom site will make you dig deep into your pockets, for it you will be required to pay somewhere in between $1,000 – $3,000 for a custom design from an expert, whereas going with a web development agency will cost you way above that. how to make a website for free? instead of hiring companies or experts who will charge you money to create a website, you can create a website for free and do it entirely on your own. there are dozens of free web services that can help you create a free website. you can build a free website pretty quickly using wordpress.com (free platform mostly used for blogs) or using web builders such as wix or weebly. web builders are popular for their ease of use, featuring drag and drop editor and hundreds of different templates to choose from. but you need to understand a few things when creating a website for free: for example, if you choose wix, your free plan domain name would look like this: https://yourname.wixsite.com/yoursite. you’ll be subject to rules and restrictions set by the platform. they will most certainly place their own ads on your website when you’re on a free plan. if you want to start the right way and make sure that you have a stable website in the future, i recommend that you make your website with the wordpress.org. but again, if free is your only choice, then create an account on one of the free platforms mentioned above and check them out. how to host your own website? hosting is a major part of having your site online. there are two ways to host a website: host your site locally. use a hosting provider. free hosting (host locally) is an attractive option for everyone but this is not recommended for beginners since it’s really important to know what you’re doing when hosting a website. it requires certain technical skills to create a personal website using a local host. when someone asks me how to make a website from scratch, more often than not, i suggest using the hosting provider. there are hosting companies, such as bluehost, that invested in hardware, software, and people who can do everything for you. a good hosting company will take care of its servers, which means having a stable environment that will be able to show your website to everyone, anytime and always in its best shape. how to design a website? if you want to design your own website, the entire process can be fun. modern content management systems, such as wordpress.org, allow you to do so. there are a lot of free themes you can easily modify and get what you want. instead of coding your way through, you can have a theme or a template that comes with everything you need. but, if you really want to step up the game and be able to design your website with a lot of options, you should invest some money (around $50) and buy a premium theme that will come equipped with a drag and drop editor. this will give you the power of creating everything via a “what you see is what you get” editor, meaning you can literally play around until you get the design that satisfies your needs. you get to change parts of your website by moving sliders, picking colors, moving the elements around, etc. the better the theme/template you have, the more you can do without modifying code. how do i learn wordpress? as one of the most widely-used cms systems out there, wordpress has a library of tutorials and different guides that will teach you how to create a wordpress website. as far as research about how to build a website is concerned, you won’t have to look anywhere else as we at first site guide will provide you with all the information you need about wordpress. what to do if your domain name is taken? thousands of businesses have gone online so there is a high chance that the domain name you want is taken or the “.com” extension isn’t available. if this happens, then: search if your chosen domain name is on sale. you can access domaintools to check whether it is available go for domain monitor which will alert you whenever your desired domain name becomes available if “.com” extension isn’t available, buy a different extension try different keywords. if your primary name isn’t available, you can go a different related name or maybe a different keyword (can even be a slogan or catchphrase) bluehost allows you to skip registration of a name until later so you can focus on creating your website. how do i switch from http to https on bluehost? running a secure website only requires you to switch from http to https. fortunately for you, bluehost has made it easier than ever to make the switch. all you have to do is log in and secure your site with an ssl certificate, all in one click: log in to your bluehost account check “my sites” in the menu click on the “manage site” after that, click on the “security” tab enable the “ssl certificate” by clicking on its switch please note that it might take several hours before the ssl certificate becomes active on your site. useful resources to help you maintain and grow your website: learn how to use wordpress (with video tutorials) how to write and create great website content how to promote your website and its content how to make money from your website best website tools and resources conclusion we hope you have found all the information on how to make a website quickly. if you are still apprehensive about this process, let us tell you that nothing about a website is permanent. the design, colors, content, etc. everything evolves and can be changed according to what you learn about your target audience and your business. just do your best, and keep looking for ways to improve your site to make it the perfect extension of your business. 22 comments on “how to make a website” david wilson january 10, 2020 at 6:34 am i read your guide and i must say it’s really good information and helpful for us…thanks for sharing reply anya skrba january 10, 2020 at 2:21 pm thanks david! let me know if you need any help. reply martha december 17, 2019 at 5:38 pm i love this! i am currently in the process of starting my first online venture and came across this website. thank you so much! reply anya skrba december 17, 2019 at 6:18 pm thanks martha! let me know if you need any help or have some additional questions. reply john davies september 9, 2019 at 7:35 am thoroughly written article! i am happy to read to wonderful blog. i am looking to develop my own business website and this blog helps me a lot. keep sharing good work. reply anya skrba september 9, 2019 at 1:32 pm thank you john! if you need any additional help with your business website development please do not hesitate to reach out to us at hello@firstsiteguide.com reply kris june 27, 2019 at 1:42 pm thanks for the good article. a great guide for creating and promoting a site. reply john cho april 10, 2019 at 12:21 pm can i create a blog for example and then, later on, change it to an ecommerce site? reply ogi djuraskovic april 12, 2019 at 12:53 pm hi john. yes, you can always do that! reply gabriella april 10, 2019 at 6:52 am a portfolio site sounds like just the thing i need. it’s a lot better than just having a blog with no content to put there since all i offer is offline. thanks for the heads-up. reply abcooz april 7, 2019 at 8:58 am having a website would be great when you have a physical business too. i’ll try to setup one. thank you guys for your steps! reply michelle april 5, 2019 at 6:53 am oh. i always thought that a blog and a website are the same thing. this has cleared up a lot for me and now i’m sure of exactly what i want to set up for my business. reply smith oliver april 3, 2019 at 4:31 am having a website would be great when you have a physical business too. i’ll try to set one up. thank you guys for your steps! reply juliet april 1, 2019 at 10:53 am thanks a lot. you do not know how much this guide has opened up my eyes and now i’m considering an e-commerce site as my physical shop. i could still ship my products to buyers once they buy online. thanks once again for the idea. reply giddy march 26, 2019 at 9:13 pm contrary to what i used to think, this guide shows that making a website is not a herculean task. i’ll try it out very soon, as i’ve been meaning to setup a two-paged site. reply walsh march 26, 2019 at 8:20 pm nice one up there. i like the way you detailed the whole process. can i use a premium wordpress theme that has been used on another site? reply ogi djuraskovic march 28, 2019 at 11:10 am hi walsh, you should be able to use it but i suggest to read their terms and conditions first to see if they allow it to be used on multiple sites. reply eliana bryson february 11, 2019 at 7:40 am making a website is not a big deal now, especially when platforms like wordpress are there, you just need to buy some good hosting provider so that your website keeps up and running even in conditions when there is a lot of traffic to cater. a major deal is to design a website but that thing is no longer an issue as one can easily apply wordpress theme and can set up a website in just 15 minutes. reply wordpress developer march 23, 2019 at 5:58 am making a website is definitely not a big deal anyways but since it requires a bit of technical knowledge i seriously think this kind of blogs does their job honestly. thank you very much for this post. reply jone athinam january 11, 2019 at 6:36 pm wow. thank you so much, admin. i read the post. i will try to create a website. reply rob dean january 9, 2019 at 9:29 am thank you for this valuable information!! simply i want to say that your article is very helpful, it is very clear. reply mou january 7, 2019 at 6:52 pm hi! thank you for the help. i was searching about this and saw your guide. it’s really helpful. thank you again. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.