skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to footer the professional hobo traveling full-time in a financially sustainable way about blog destinations map travel stuff contact books/courses how to get free accommodation around the world pinterestfacebooktwitterlinkedin how to get free accommodation around the world – new in 2020 – 3rd edition! check out the extra extra discounted prices below, and get it while the price is right. volunteering at a retreat centre in new zealand? check! do you want to travel the world but worry you don’t have enough money? are you looking to get off the beaten track and make local friends, but don’t know how? do you crave a unique travel experience? have you ever wondered how i managed to travel full-time and stay in so many cool places? hint: i’m not rich. (far from it). everywhere you go, there are free accommodation opportunities. how would you like to sample local life by staying for free in the following places: a bluestone cottage on 300 hectares of property in the australian countryside an abandoned village in spain a trendy house in the beaches area of toronto a yurt on a hawaii cliffside a villa resort property on the caribbean island of grenada a 49 foot sailing boat in the caribbean a swiss alpine cottage and 4-storey home in zurich a palatial house in panama a full-sized house in tokyo i’ve done all of the above. this doesn’t count the individuals and families i’ve stayed with – for free – in canada, usa, spain, ireland, germany, australia, new zealand, england, scotland, france, and many, many more countries. in addition to saving money, these are much more culturally enriching experiences than paying to stay in an impersonal hotel or hostel, and struggling to get a true feel for the local culture. in 12 years of full-time travel, i saved over $100,000 in accommodation expenses. $100k. i will teach you all my secrets. with the money you’ll save on accommodation, you can turn your travel dreams into a financially sustainable full-time lifestyle (as i did), or you can simply enjoy a great vacation, and spend the money you save on more exciting things than accommodation. want to know how to do it? fancy staying in a decked-out swiss alpine cottage for the summer? been there, done that! you’ve come to the right place. how to get free accommodation around the world, 3rd edition is packed with resources, tips, anecdotal experiences, and advice based on years of experience. these five modalities of free accommodation are each covered in detail: volunteering house-sitting couch surfing (hospitality exchanges) living on boats home exchanges some of the things you’ll learn: multiple resources to find gigs in each of the five modalities how to stand out and land gigs what to expect in terms of workloads and responsibilities how to stay safe ensuring both parties have a good experience tips for managing an online business concurrently digs & meals in a historical village in spain for chatting in english? done! this e-book is a practical resource to get you on the road and enjoying free accommodation, right away – whether it’s for a week, a month, or a year – with the help of my full-time travel experience specializing in free accommodation, since 2007. new to the 3rd edition (expanded to 70 pages from 44 pages): dramatically expanded listings and descriptions of websites to find all five kinds of free accommodation (with updated links), especially the work-trade and house-sitting sections an entire section on boat etiquette, safety tips, and ways to get the most out of a nautical arrangement a massive expansion of the home exchanges chapter, including advice for getting the most out of an exchange (as both a guest and homeowner) more anecdotes, practical resources, and advice less fluff ready? great! how to get free accommodation around the world, 3rd edition is a 70-page e-book and costs $19.99 $14.99 $6.99 usd! why the extra extra discounted price, you ask? because if you tried hard enough, you could probably find most of this information online, across a bunch of different websites (including some information right here on mine). in fact, some of you have might come to this very page from one of the amazing free online guides i’ve published on various topics that will help you travel intelligently, inexpensively, and rewardingly. the $6.99 charge is for people want to go the extra mile. you don’t want to sift through all of the various websites that offer free accommodation to find the one that will be the best fit for you and your travel needs. you want an edge over the competition – and trust me, competition is fierce! you want tips and tricks to be the best volunteer/house-sitter/boat-dweller/home exchanger/couch surfer out there. you’re not sure whether some of these things are actually safe, and you need to know how to protect yourself. in buying this book, you will get your money’s value right away – on your next trip – on your first night of free accommodation. in fact, if you apply the lessons in this book you will save you hundreds if not thousands of dollars and will deepen and enrich your travel experience beyond anything that money can provide. it’s a pdf file that is nice and small and easy to download over any speed/quality of internet connection. and, it’s formatted to be easy to read on computers, tablets, e-readers, etc. what others are saying about this book “nora is the uncontested know-it-all when it comes to enjoying meaningful travel in a financially sustainable way. it should be no surprise then that this ebook is jam packed with solid tips that will help anyone find accommodations around the world for free. this is a very worthy read.” –dalene heck there’s no way around it, when someone can tell you they spent $173 on accommodation for an entire year (yes, really!) i want to know what that person knows. full of tips, tons of resources and enticing pictures, nora’s book can help anyone attain greater freedom to travel with the money they save. she lays out the pros and cons of different housing options around the world, helping the reader to narrow down where to focus their energies for their own specific travel goals, whether that’s to try and fully embrace the local culture or manage an online business. this is a must have reference for any traveler. – tiffany soukup “if you are traveling now or plan to, read this book. it will save you money. don’t read it if you’ve got gobs of money you want to spend needlessly on lodging.” – josie schneider i bought this book after spending 42 months traveling to 101 countries spending my time split between couch surfing and hostels. i read it to get a broad understanding of volunteering and house sitting for accommodations as i am planning on continuing my travels adding those methods as well. i must say that nora does a great job of explaining the options. her research is very thorough. i have referred to it several times. it is clear, concise and to the point on the mechanics of how to travel with no cost accommodations. but much more than that the author’s successful lifestyle redesign helps educate travelers and would-be travelers of the shift in thinking about what travel really means and can be. the fact that slow, inexpensive or almost free travel really allows you to be a traveler and not a tourist and really connect with the people and the culture leaving you with experiences that are beyond what any tourist package tour could ever deliver and with way more money left in your wallet. i highly recommend this e-book for any traveler, experienced or just starting out. – jefre c. outlaw okay, now are you ready? buy how to get free accommodation around the world, 3rd edition today, for the ridiculously low price of $6.99! pinterestfacebooktwitterlinkedin before footer footer about this website the professional hobo is about how to travel full-time in a financially sustainable way, as experienced since 2006 by nora dunn, former financial planner and current world traveler/writer. writing portfolio & speaking credits contact faqs travel resources copyright © 2009-2020 theprofessionalhobo.com. all rights reserved. disclosure: in accordance with ftc guidelines, i disclose that i may be compensated if consumers choose to utilize links located throughout the content on this site. additionally, some posts might be sponsored to support this blog. please do the appropriate research before participating in any third party offers. all opinions are my own. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. privacy policy: while you may rest assured that we at the professional hobo are not using your information for evil purposes, here is everything you need to know about our privacy policy.