authority seo 2.0 blog about tools contact practice makes perfect: how to master the art of blogging by coral ouellette 2 comments last updated on: march 4, 2019 want to know the difference between beginner bloggers and professional bloggers who have mastered the craft and do it full-time for a living? are you curious how some people can write high quality content 7 days a week, while you struggle to even get one monthly article published? professional bloggers didn’t get to where they are since day 1. they were newbies just like some of you reading this. they had to learn how to set up their site. they had to learn how to use wordpress. and most importantly, they had to learn how to write well, often, and consistently. the aspects of running a blog masterfully when you’re just starting out with your blog, it can get really confusing. you’ll feel like you’re all over the place. you won’t know what to work on next. you won’t know what to focus on that will actually produce results. and most importantly, you’ll have a tough time producing content. on paper, building a blog is simple: create blog posts and publish them on your site. but there are actually a ton of moving parts. for example: you need to find images for your blog posts. you need to organize your content. you need to filter out spam comments. you need to rank in google. you need to collect emails. you need to create forms. you need to optimize your site for seo. you need to check your analytics. you need to network. you need to think about monetization. you need to respond to emails. you need to consistently publish content. and the list goes on and on. to master the art of blogging takes skill and precision in each individual area. talk about overwhelming! if you’re starting your first blog, you’ll inevitably feel lost. the good thing is that every one of these things is a skill. publishing articles on wordpress is a skill that you can master. you’ll get better with practice building blogs is something you can actually practice! most people don’t know that. most of the things i listed above are actually minor details. they only seem like large tasks because you’re not used to them yet. once you start doing them often, a lot of them won’t take you longer than a minute. for me, doing them is second nature, and that’s because i’ve been doing it for so long. the same will happen for you. writing is a skill the biggest, and most important task in running a blog is producing high quality content. this means actually sitting down and writing articles. in the beginning, writing can be hard. for example, students in school take a whole weekend to put a 500-word essay together. imagine having to write a 2000 word essay everyday of the week! not being able to write efficiently (and consistently) is one of the biggest reasons people fail with their blogs. it just gets too hard. the important thing to remember is that writing will be improved with practice. it’s a skill that gets refined with repetition. if you’re writing consistently everyday, you’ll inevitably get better at it. most people start a blog, write 5-10 articles, then call it quits because it just takes too much time and effort. i felt the same way. writing a 2000 word article used to take me over 10 hours. i would usually spend a few days on it. writing was only half the story. it took me a ton of time to format, add in links, add in images, etc. today, it only takes me 1 to 2 hours – that’s from blank page to published article. and that’s because of all the work i put in over the years. i went from zero to hero simply by practice and repetition, and the same thing will happen for you. not only that, but the quality of your posts get better as well. your formatting gets cleaner, you start to understand what tone of voice works best, and you just get better at communicating in general. the advice i give is to set a goal of writing 100 articles in 4 months. if you’re just starting out, and you don’t have much experience publishing on the web, take the 100 article challenge. 4 months is around 120 days, so you should be able to write one article per day, and have a few days of rest when you need it. each article should be at least 1000 words in length. they don’t need to be perfect, you just have to write and publish them. the good thing about this goal is that it forces you to get better at writing. and furthermore, it also helps you improve your wordpress skills – things like formatting text, creating custom url’s, adding in images, etc. there’s one thing i can guarantee: once you hit this goal, you will be a better writer. things like customizing url’s, formatting your post, adding in links and images will be come second nature to you. words will flow from your keyboard onto your page. you’ll get better at researching your topic. and most importantly, you’ll develop an efficient workflow when writing blog posts. what about outsourcing? if you’re reading this, it likely means you’re a newbie. and before you go and outsource things, i would recommend you get better at doing things yourself first. outsourcing is difficult, and you want to make sure that you know how to spot quality work. to do that, you need to know the ins and outs of all the processes. it’s one of my rules of outsourcing: know the ins and outs before handing off the work to someone else. if you don’t, then you risk accepting low-quality work without even recognizing it as low quality work. conclusion i wish there was a magic answer or a nifty piece of software that i could tell you about to help you master the art of blogging. but in all honesty, it’s just about practice. do it more often, and you’ll see that your process gets refined. not only will you start writing faster, your writing will be cleaner with better language as well. it won’t be overnight. give yourself at least 4 months and take the 100 article challenge. if you do finish those 100 articles, you will be a better blog publisher. there’s no question about that. good luck! facebook twitter pinterest you might also like... how to create a great about page for your blog how do i stay motivated to keep working on my blog? should i use adsense or affiliate marketing (or both)? 2 comments reply oscar september 14, 2018 at 6:08 pm thank you very much for this article which comforts me a lot. i was about to abandon the blogging because i was worried that i could not write faster. but, i understand that everything is about practice and patience. i will try the challenge of 100 articles in 4 months and see what it will give. reply chris lee september 15, 2018 at 12:28 am glad this could help, oscar 🙂 leave a reply cancel reply zero to 100k with seo a free 5-part seo email course that will show you step-by-step how to grow traffic from zero to 100,000 visitors per month (with search). sign up for free zero to 100k with seo a free 5-part seo email course that will show you step-by-step how to grow traffic from zero to 100,000 visitors per month (with search). sign me up © 2019 rankxl. all rights reserved. | contact | twitter zero to 100k with seo free 5-part mini-course. enter your email to get lesson #1. email* send me the first lesson enter your email below to get the zero to 100k mini-course email* send me the first lesson