wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how to learn wordpress for free in a week (or less) how to learn wordpress for free in a week (or less) last updated on march 19th, 2020 by editorial staff 2.6k shares share tweet share pin are you looking to learn wordpress and build a website? ease of use is one of the best things about wordpress which makes it the world’s most popular website builder. learning wordpress does not require a lot of time or money. you can do it on your own, at your own pace, and then build upon it as you go. in this article, we’ll show you how to learn wordpress for free in a week (or less). the goal is to help you familiarize yourself with wordpress and become able to build websites on your own. why learn wordpress? wordpress is the world’s most popular open-source content management system. that’s a fancy way of saying that it allows you to create any type of website. wordpress powers more than 36% of all websites on the internet. it generates thousands of job opportunities around the world, and there are millions of websites making money using wordpress. apart from economic opportunities, wordpress enables people to share their stories, ideas, build communities and do awesome things. it is ideal for small businesses to make their online presence, at the same time it is economical enough for bloggers to launch their first blog. wordpress also powers the most popular ecommerce platform called woocommerce. it is used by millions of small and big online stores. you can use wordpress to start an online store (without writing any code). with a ton of plugins and themes, wordpress is easy to extend and allows you to make any kind of website imaginable. what do i need to learn wordpress? learning wordpress is easy as long as you are willing to commit a few hours each day for a week. you would need some very basic search skills (i.e know how to use search engines like google), and the ability to follow instructions. no, you don’t need to know html or other programming languages to code a website. it will be helpful to learn them in the future, but you don’t need them to make a website using wordpress as a beginner. the majority of wordpress users don’t have coding or programming skills, and they have been using wordpress for years. similarly, many successful wordpress developers started out just like you, and now they are making websites as full-time web developers. now that you are committed to learning wordpress, we want to welcome you to the awesome wordpress and wpbeginner community. let’s get started. monday: getting started with wordpress there are two types of wordpress websites. first, there is wordpress.org also known as self-hosted wordpress, and then there is wordpress.com. we recommend using self-hosted wordpress.org because it gives you access to all the wordpress features out of the box. for more information, see our comparison of wordpress.com vs wordpress.org. now that you have chosen the right platform, the next step is to choose your domain and web hosting . your domain is the website address that users will type to visit you (example wpbeginner.com). we have a guide that will help you pick the best domain name for your website. the next step is to choose web hosting. this is where all your website files will be stored, so users can view your site. normally, a domain costs $14.99 per year and web hosting starts from $7.99 per month. this is a lot of money if you are just starting out. luckily, bluehost has agreed to offer wpbeginner users a free domain name and a generous discount on hosting. basically, you can get started for $2.75 per month. → click here to claim this exclusive bluehost offer ← if you want to look at a bluehost alternative, then checkout siteground or see our guide on how to choose the best wordpress hosting. once you have signed up for a domain name and web hosting account, it is time to install wordpress. wordpress is famous for its easy installation and most hosting providers also offer 1-click wordpress installers. if you need help, then follow our step by step wordpress installation tutorial. we also have a step by step tutorial on: how to start a wordpress blog how to create a website with wordpress how to start an online store with wordpress how to make a membership site wordpress how to start a podcast with wordpress for other dedicated tutorials, see our guide on different types of websites you can create with wordpress. if you’re just wanting to learn and create a test site, you can also install wordpress on your mac or windows computer. but remember, local websites are not visible to other users on the internet. to make it available to everyone, you’ll need to move wordpress from your computer (local) to a live site. once you have installed wordpress, you’ll reach the wordpress dashboard or the admin area. it has a sleek layout with a toolbar at the top and an admin sidebar menu on the left. congrats, you have created a wordpress site. however, your website is currently empty and uses a very basic design and no noticeable features. in the next few days, you’ll familiarize yourself with the wordpress features and learn how to set it up to work for you. tuesday: learning the wordpress basics after installing wordpress, it is time to get familiar with the system. you can do so by going through options in the left-hand bar. however, you may still need guidance on how to use each of the items you see in the wordpress dashboard. the best place to start is our free wordpress video series for beginners. these 34 videos will guide you through the wordpress dashboard, show you how to add images, videos, audio, etc. we recommend going through these videos as you work on your website. don’t worry if you can’t watch them all at once. you can always come back and resume where you left off. as you work on your website, you’ll come across terms that you may not understand. we have a handy wordpress dictionary with a list of commonly used wordpress terminology along with detailed explanation of each term. next, you should familiarize yourself with the wordpress block editor. this is where you’ll be spending most of your time when creating content for your website. while you are at it, let’s go through some key wordpress concepts along the way. difference between posts vs pages in wordpress difference between categoris vs tags how to add images in wordpress if you still have some time left today, then you should explore our beginners guide section which is full of useful information. hopefully by this time, you have a good grasp of your wordpress admin area, and you’re probably eager to play with plugins. wednesday: using wordpress plugins the real power of wordpress is in the plugins. think of plugins as the apps for your wordpress website. they allow you to add new features to your website such as adding contact forms, create a store, etc. there are more than 55,000+ free plugins available in the official wordpress plugin repository alone. this abundance of plugins can be overwhelming for beginners. that’s why you should look at our beginner’s guide on how to choose the best wordpress plugin. now, as a beginner you may be wondering which wordpress plugins you should install. we have prepared a list of essential wordpress plugins for all types of websites. we recommend every user to install a wordpress backup plugin, wordpress seo plugin, and wpforms for your contact form. also, check out our wordpress plugins category where you will find the best wordpress plugins to do anything you want on your wordpress website. exploring plugins will keep you busy for most of the day. take your time to explore plugins that may help you grow your business. when you come back, the next thing we’ll cover is wordpress themes. thursday: using wordpress themes wordpress themes control the look of your website. themes are pre-made templates that you can install and customize for your site. there are thousands of free and premium themes available for wordpress. you can download free themes from the wordpress themes directory. for premium themes, you can go to commercial theme shops like studiopress, elegant themes, themify, etc. a perfect theme should be a balance of beautiful design and powerful features. too many features are not always a sign of a good theme. check out our guide on choosing the perfect wordpress theme for your website. if you want to look at specific wordpress themes, then see our wordpress theme showcases: best and most popular wordpress themes (all-time) best free wordpress blog themes best free wordpress business themes best wordpress magazine style themes best wordpress themes for photographers once you have found a theme, follow the instructions in our guide on how to install a wordpress theme to properly install it. after that, refer back to our wordpress videos from tuesday to see how you can change the background, add header images, add menus, and more in your wordpress theme. friday: customizing wordpress each website has different customization needs. depending on what you want to do with your website, you will come across new questions. for example how to add a contact form, or create separate page for blog posts. we recommend browsing through our wordpress tutorials section which has 500+ step by step tutorials for beginners. you can also subscribe to wpbeginner’s youtube channel for free wordpress video tutorials. continue learning wordpress hopefully, by the end of the week, you have been able to set up your website and familiarize yourself with how wordpress works. however, wordpress is an incredibly powerful platform, and you’ll keep discovering new things as you work on your website. the following are a few tips to help you continue learning wordpress. as you come across a problem, you can search for it using the search feature on our website. alternatively, you can simply enter your question in google and add wpbeginner at the end of your search query to find the most helpful answer. as the largest wordpress resource site in the world, there is a good chance that you’ll find a step-by-step guide written specifically for beginners. can’t find an answer? join our wpbeginner engage facebook group. it is an online community of wpbeginner users with more than 30,000 members. our team of experts and other industry veterans are actively helping out users there (for free), and you’ll also get advice from other wordpress users as well. how do i start learning wordpress development? many of our beginner users often graduate to intermediate and advanced level users. they ask us for guidance on learning how to code their own solutions. wordpress is mainly written in the php programming language along with html, css, and javascript. we recommend starting with html and css and then move on to php and javascript. once you have learned a good bit of these languages, you can start learning how to code your own plugins and custom wordpress themes from scratch. you can learn all these things for free using google and free resources available. however, there are websites offering professional training courses in different wordpress development areas. we hope this article helped you learn wordpress in a week. you may also want to see our guide on how to increase your website traffic, how to create an email newsletter, and how to speed up your wordpress site. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and google+. 2.6k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 63 commentsleave a reply john says: mar 20, 2020 at 7:07 am great info… with this guide, i will be able to set up my own blog. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: mar 20, 2020 at 8:57 am you’re welcome, glad our guide could be helpful reply marcy everest says: dec 8, 2019 at 12:24 pm ok–i filled out the form and added you to my email list. now, how do i see the videos? i’m confused. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 9, 2019 at 11:51 am if you signed up for the videos you should have received a message with an activation url, if not then you would want to check your spam and reach out to us using our contact form if you’re unable to find the email. reply pearl says: nov 25, 2019 at 5:04 am i tried many times to create my accounts for watching the videos serie, but the system didn’t work. that’s a pity. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 25, 2019 at 10:22 am please reach out to us using our contact form here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/contact/ and we can assist you with whatever error you’re having with our video section reply devraj says: jul 9, 2019 at 5:58 am how to add another address in contact us page.i have watch many tutorials on youtube but no bady showing how to add secondy address in contact us page in wordpress.pls resolved it waiting your reply.thanks in advance reply wpbeginner support says: jul 9, 2019 at 12:53 pm it would depend on what contact form plugin you’re using. if you reach out to the plugin’s support they should be able to let you know how to add a secondary email address to your contact form. reply sylvia says: jun 3, 2019 at 7:01 pm i’m new to wp too, been building my wp website with ecommerce for the past 2 weeks, needles to say, i’m struck with http errors, upload errors, json errors, website down errors, blank page errors, no preview, publish errors. not giving up yet but i’m close. been on long chats with blue host 5 times already, but no solution, asked to reset the wordpress, and start from scratch. back to square one, and the same issues.! i’ll be looking very closely at all your videos before i do anything else, have 2 more weeks before i reach deadline for cancellation. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 4, 2019 at 11:34 am we hope our articles can help make the process easier for you reply sylvia says: jun 7, 2019 at 4:18 pm there was something wrong with the configuration of my website, hours on bluehost chat, got a senior technician and the issues were fixed but my website lost some feutures and pages. all was visible on line but not in the design view. eventually i have asked to cancel the subscription – so i can have the website closed and i am going to purchase the subscription again next week. the good thing was the chat people were trying to help , quick to answer questions offer support , i actually am imperssed on how good the experience was, and i was on the chat at least 2x per day. it is possible that ive messed up something there with the wordpress myself, im trying to learn as much as i can before i start again. once i familiarised myself with the design and customisation i found the wordpress and woo commerce got progresively easy to navigate , and if it wasnt for the errors i would keep building it. so much to learn … reply dev star says: mar 18, 2019 at 7:11 pm i started learning wordpress reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 1:56 pm we hope our guide helps you get started reply abu bakar siddique says: mar 12, 2019 at 11:18 am i would like to learn wordpress free of cost. please let me know the details. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 13, 2019 at 9:59 am you would follow the steps in this article, you can also install wordpress locally for free on your computer using: https://www.wpbeginner.com/how-to-install-wordpress/#installlocal reply eugene says: feb 16, 2019 at 12:46 pm i find your contents very helpful, but can you please allow pdf of your contents to readers reply wpbeginner support says: feb 18, 2019 at 1:10 pm we will certainly take a look into that as a possibility in the future reply hamed khan says: oct 31, 2018 at 4:23 am hi i’m using elementor plug in ( both free version) my design theme is black and gold i need to switch it as white and gold or something else with a button, as most of website has option as (dark/ light mode) but more customisable. please help thanks!! reply jim says: jul 14, 2018 at 6:43 pm i think the free version of wordpress limits a lot of options. but still, its free so i guess we can’t complain to much eh! reply rehana sk. sajjad says: mar 14, 2018 at 10:31 am can’t comment as yet to go through the guide and youtube tutorials. well i’m sure will enjoy going through the guide and am wishing myself good luck. reply kanishka sahu says: jan 19, 2018 at 10:09 am how can i build an blogging interface for users/authors in wordpress just like blogger.i am struck where a user will write its post and have some features like to make some text bold or to add bullets to text,i’m missing knowledge to add that panel.please help me.looking forward for an answer thank you in advance.﻿ reply lahiru supun says: jan 8, 2018 at 4:47 am many thanks for this. clean and easy understanding. i’m a new to wordpress. let me know how can i add freely live chat option for my wordpress web site ? already i following these lessons. thanks ! reply rob says: dec 13, 2017 at 5:49 pm thank you! i believe i’ve seen some of your videos on youtube and they were very helpful! reply yatheesh says: nov 30, 2017 at 2:28 pm sir, suggest me best wordpress and blogger themes for affliate marketing like flipkart reply wpbeginner support says: nov 30, 2017 at 5:35 pm hi yateesh, please take a look at our list of best wordpress themes for affiliate marketers. reply mary n says: sep 21, 2017 at 10:46 pm this doesn’t tell me what i really need to know which is formatting. i am already on wordpress but can’t figure out how the heck to get the formatting to do what i want it to do. it always has these huge gaps in between the sentences and i hate that. it didn’t used to be this way as far as i remember. i stopped using it and came back and now it is a total pain. reply barry says: sep 24, 2017 at 5:59 pm hi mary i’m just a beginner with wordpress but also believe as you do that the formatting could be improved but since i’m an early beginner i have had to put the thoughts aside until i am a bit more advanced. my thoughts are at this stage that maybe pdf pages may be the answer. or formatting a page in a program such as dreamweaver and loading it to wordpress. will be trying these things when i get a bit further along. the current line spacing though readable is very limiting. where there’s a will there’s a way. ♥♥♥ (alt+keypad 3) reply saad rauf says: aug 17, 2017 at 1:39 pm thanks for the guide guys.now i know where to learn wordpress, i appreciate it. reply jabita adedoyin says: jul 16, 2017 at 11:31 am i want to create an entertainment website alongside with a blog. i want to use a welcome page to be different from the homepage so if they click on enter someone can now get to home. is it possible to do this on wordpress? reply emo leblanc says: jun 19, 2017 at 11:14 pm can i add music to my wordpress web page ? so when people land on my website, my music starts playing. reply yolanda says: may 24, 2017 at 9:04 am i can hardly wait to get started. i will soon begin learning how to use wordpress. i want to create an online store. thank you for sharing this invaluable information. best wishes! reply carleigh says: may 22, 2017 at 4:11 pm hello- can i use wordpress to edit a website that a website company set up and is already on the web? i need to add photos and text. thanks! carleigh reply wpbeginner support says: may 23, 2017 at 12:01 am hi carleigh, if the website was built using wordpress, then you can edit it by logging into the admin area of the website. if it was not built with wordpress, then you cannot edit it using wordpress. reply ian says: nov 2, 2017 at 6:01 pm can you convert a html site to a wordpress site? reply bryan says: may 15, 2017 at 10:06 pm hello my name is bryan and i am working in the field of public relations. i have written press releases, articles and other stuff in the past that i would like to put up in a personal website to aid job seeking and hopefully get writing jobs on a freelance basis. could i seek your sagely guidance on whether it is possible to set up a personal website, showing a bio and past works, with a blog? thanks bryan reply wpbeginner support says: may 17, 2017 at 1:05 am hi bryan, yes, you can setup a personal website showing your bio and past works with your blog. see our list of beautiful wordpress resume themes for some ideas. reply mason masterman says: may 6, 2017 at 5:29 am hi, i have taken over a word press site and wish to keep the same style in follow up content. when i try to update the new content i find that what i see in the editor is not the same when publisher. mjm reply d sharp says: apr 1, 2017 at 7:08 pm thank you for your great information reply mutabazi says: sep 20, 2017 at 6:41 am thanks for the information reply emilio says: feb 8, 2017 at 7:45 am at first i was a bit afraid of the dashboard and all but after 1 hour of investing in testing and doing random stuff, i’m able to make a whole website! it is so easy and of course this article helped me a lot. thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: feb 8, 2017 at 11:26 pm hi emilio, we are glad you found this article helpful. don’t forget to follow us on facebook for more wordpress tips and tutorials. reply tariq mahmood says: jan 5, 2017 at 8:07 am very helpful stuff. it encouraged me to learn more about wordpress.keep it up. i wish you all the best in future. reply murali says: nov 25, 2016 at 1:32 am good website! i really love how it is simple on my eyes and the data are well written. i am wondering how i might be notified when a new post has been made. reply kim says: nov 11, 2016 at 5:19 pm hi i had a designer build my site. i would like to learn how to make changes myself. would this be what i would need? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: nov 12, 2016 at 9:15 pm hi kim, welcome to wpbeginner. we are the largest wordpress resource site for beginners. this article will help you get started and learn how to manage your wordpress site like a pro. you can also subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. don’t forget to follow us on twitter and facebook. reply hasiba says: oct 22, 2016 at 7:13 am best learning point for wordpress beginners. reply steven says: oct 8, 2016 at 2:01 am excellent, is a simple and detailed guide to learn. like it! thank you very much! reply wpbeginner support says: oct 8, 2016 at 11:05 am hey steven, glad you found it helpful don’t forget to join us on twitter for more wordpress tips and tutorials. reply bruno bezerra says: aug 12, 2016 at 11:36 am the best platform on the planet! reply natasha says: aug 6, 2016 at 1:36 pm some body today introduce me to wordpress,just busy learning. thank you. i’m from ukraine,leaving in south africa would love to learn more about. thank you for any advice. reply josh says: sep 7, 2016 at 2:53 am hi there, i’d love to meet you at the wordpress monthly meetup this saturday in johannesburg. [see meetupdotcom] come learn more about wordpress and have fun! reply ahmad says: jul 11, 2016 at 12:27 pm please write the process for wordpress.com, or tell us if this is the same as above? what the best in the world i wish for you. reply rauhun isnaini says: jun 26, 2016 at 4:43 am very nice article and thanks for best guide about wordpress. reply manav dhaker says: jun 3, 2016 at 8:08 pm hello everyone above tutorial is really amazing and thanks for it. now i want to create my website in wordpress, it is a online business directory site. so please help me to choose best themes and plugins to implement current functionality reply victor feliciano says: may 11, 2016 at 9:31 am so far every introduction seems good. i am ready to get started. reply mayank pathak says: mar 17, 2016 at 11:10 am well it gave me morale to learn the wordpress this really very good and simple to learn thank you reply mukta says: dec 4, 2015 at 11:34 am this is a excellent guide and useful for me to learn the applications using word press.this is a nice overview. reply krishnakant says: jul 6, 2015 at 1:28 pm i shocked .? after reading this site .it help me for creating a web without any html coading and i would like to thanks this site reply pawan kumar says: apr 20, 2015 at 7:41 am this is a excellent guide and useful for me to learn the applications using wordpress. reply jacobchristian1 says: jul 17, 2014 at 9:01 pm good stuff, good stuff, and good stuff! very happy to be here and l like everything that i’ve taken in thus far. i have already started a wp website for my church, but i used a designer. now i’m eager to learn how to manage the content myself. i feel relieved, like i’ve finally arrived home for dinner, ready to take in the eats, amen. i will stick to the beginner’s guide to get up to speed and i plan on exhausting all resources that are provided at wpbeginner. thanks to syed and the entire team here, let’s chow! reply leslie stallard says: jul 17, 2014 at 9:30 am wish i’d seen this at the beginning; i did some research before taking the plunge but have learned soooo much more. personally i’d put choosing a theme after hosting but that’s nitpicking. this is a nice overview. reply bhasker raj says: jul 17, 2014 at 3:12 am this is a excellent guide and very useful for beginners to learn the nuances and applications using wordpress. i have once suggestion: in the videos the transcript should be made available. this will help beginners to save these transcript and refer back when in doubt – like a text book. thanks once again a. s. bhasker raj bangalore india reply jerri says: jul 16, 2014 at 2:53 pm this is a good guide. i think, however, that the theme and plugin days should be switched. some themes may already have some plugin functionality built in, and your choice of plugins may depend upon the theme you choose. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) weglot coupon get 15% off on weglot multilingual plugin for wordpress. bluehost coupon get over 63% off on bluehost packages and a free domain of your choice. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.