wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials » how to fix wordpress not sending email issue how to fix wordpress not sending email issue last updated on march 8th, 2019 by editorial staff 832 shares share tweet share pin one of the most commonly asked questions on wpbeginner is how to fix wordpress not sending email problem. many of our beginner level users ask us why their contact form plugin is not sending emails, or why they are not seeing any wordpress notifications. in this article, we will show you how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. why you are not getting emails from your wordpress site the most common reason for this is that your wordpress hosting server is not configured to use php mail() function. even if they would allow it to work, many email service providers use a variety of tools to reduce email spam. these tools often try to detect that an email is originating from the location it claims to be originating from, and often emails sent by wordpress websites fail this test. in such cases, when an email is sent out from your wordpress site, it never even makes into spam folder of the destination. this is why we recommend not using wordpress to send your email newsletter. this is also the reason why that we recommend using smtp to send emails in wordpress. smtp (simple mail transfer protocol) is the industry standard for sending emails. unlike php mail function, smtp uses proper authentication which increases email deliverability. there are many different smtp services available, but in this article we will show only two that we recommend: mailgun and gmail. sending your wordpress emails using mailgun mailgun is a popular email service provider. they allow website owners to send large amounts of emails with high deliverability. as a dedicated email service provider, they spend a lot of money and time on making sure that your email reaches its destination. while mailgun is a paid service, it offers first 10,000 emails for free every month. that’s more than enough for most folks who just started their blog or website. here is how to setup your wordpress site to use mailgun for sending emails. first you need to signup on the mailgun website. after signing up, you need to click on the “add your domain” button. you will now see an add domain page. here you need to add a subdomain on your wordpress website’s domain name. for example, mail1.yourdomain.com. you can create a new subdomain on your existing domain name by following the instructions below. first, you need to visit the cpanel dashboard of your hosting account. next, click on the subdomains icon under the domains section. on the next page, you need to enter your subdomain and then select your root domain from the drop down menu. after that click on the create button, and you will see a success message that your subdomain has been created. you can now add this subdomain on mailgun’s add domain page. after you add the domain, mailgun will show you a few dns records. switch back to your cpanel dashboard and then click on ‘advanced dns zone editor’. you will be asked to select the domain for which you want to change the dns records. once you select your root domain name, you will see options to add new dns records. the first txt entry will be your subdomain. you need to start by entering the subdomain in the name field and then select txt as record type. after that you need to add 14400 in ttl field and copy the value shown on mailgun domain verification settings page into txt data field. repeat the process to add the other txt record. once you are done, switch back to the cpanel dashboard and click on the mx entry icon. you will be asked to select your root domain, then scroll down to the bottom of the page. there you will see the option to add a new mx entry. enter the priority and destination values and click on create new record button. you have successfully added your domain to mailgun. it will need to verify that your domain has proper dns records. this may take a while because dns records may take sometime to update. you can check the status of your domain verification by visiting the domains page in your mailgun account. mailgun will show active status next to your domain name once it can verify the dns changes you made. once your domain is active, you can setup your wordpress site to start using mailgun for sending emails. first thing you need to do is install and activate the wp mail smtp plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to visit settings » wp mail smtp to configure plugin settings. first you need to provide your sender email address and the name you want to use for the sender. next, you need to select mailgun as your mailer and check the box next to set the return path to match the from email address. lastly, you need to provide your mailgun private api key and the mailgun sub-domain. click on the links below each field to get this information from your mailgun account. don’t forget to click on save settings button to store your changes. that’s all, you have successfully setup your wordpress site to send emails using mailgun. you can now click on the ‘email test’ tab on plugin’s settings page to send a test email and see if everything is working fine. sending wordpress emails using gmail smtp servers another alternative is to send your wordpress emails is using gmail smtp servers. you can use any regular gmail account with this method to send out your emails. however, your email deliverability will be much better if you are using google apps for work with your custom email address. see our guide on how to setup a professional email address with google apps and gmail. whether you use paid or free gmail address, rest of the instructions are the same. first, you will need to install and activate the wp mail smtp plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to visit settings » wp mail smtp page to configure plugin settings. first you need to provide your gmail address in the ‘from email’ field and the name you want to display as sender. next, you need to scroll down to the mailer option. there are two ways you can use gmail servers to send wordpress emails. first, method is to use gmail apis to send emails. this method is recommended because it is more secure and reliable. second method is to use your gmail account’s smtp server manually. we will show you both methods, however we recommend that you use the first method. method 1: setting up gmail to send wordpress emails using oauth protocol first, you need to select gmail as your mailer under wp mail smtp settings page. check the box next to set the return path to be the same as sender, not checking this box will make bounced and failed messages to be lost forever. next, you will see the option to enter your client id, client secret, and a url in ‘authorized redirect uri’ field. creating an app and generate api keys for gmail to use gmail’s apis for sending wordpress emails, you need to create an app and generate an api key. to do that, visit the google developers console website and create a new project. if you don’t see the blue button to create a project, then you can also click on ‘select a project’ drop down and create a new project. you’ll be asked to provide a name for your project. give it a meaningful name so that next time you are here, you can easily recognize it. click on the create button to continue. developer console will now create your project and take you to its dashboard. google allow developers to access many of their apis and services. now that your project is setup, you need to enable the apis that you will be needing. click on enable apis and services button to continue. this will bring you to the apis library page. type gmail in the search box to quickly find gmail api and click to select it. you will now see an overview of the api and what it can do. simply click on the ‘enable’ button to continue. now that your api is enabled, the next step is to create credentials that you can use in your wp mail smtp plugin settings. click on the create credentials button to continue. on the next screen, you will need to select ‘web browser javascript’ in ‘where you’ll be calling the api from’ field. after that click on the ‘user data’ option. to continue, click on the ‘what credentials do i need?’ button. you will now be asked to provide a name for your oauth client name. you can enter ‘wp mail smtp’ here. under javascript origins field, add your website’s domain name. next, you need to copy and paste the authorized redirect url from wp mail smtp plugin settings. click on ‘create client id’ button to continue. next, you need to enter a name for oauth consent screen. you can put the plugin’s name here. click on the continue button and developer console will show your client id. you can copy it and paste it in wp mail smtp plugin’s settings page. however, you will still need client secret key. click on the done button to move on. you will now be taken to your project’s credentials page. you will see your recently created credentials listed there. click on the edit button next to your credentials. this will bring you to edit credentials page where you will be able to see your client secret key. you need to copy and paste the key in your plugin’s settings page. return back to plugin’s settings page in your wordpress admin area. now that you have both client id and client secret keys, you need to click on the save settings button to continue. the plugin will now store your settings and reload the page. after that you need to scroll down to the bottom of the settings page and click on the ‘allow plugin to send emails using your google account’ button. this will take you to your account on google and you will be asked to give the website permission to send emails on your behalf. after that you will be redirected back to your website where you will see a success message. you have successfully set up wordpress to use gmail smtp servers for sending emails using the oauth protocol. you can now click on the ‘email test’ tab on plugin’s settings page to send a test email and see if everything is working fine. method 2: setting gmail to send wordpress emails using smtp this method allows wp mail smtp to manually connect to gmail’s smtp servers for sending wordpress emails. first, you need to visit settings &raquo wp mail smtp page to configure the plugin settings. provide the gmail address you want to use as from email field and your name as from name field. select ‘other smtp’ as your mailer and check the box next to return path. scroll down to other smtp section to configure more settings. here is how to fill out the plugin settings: smtp host: smtp.gmail.com smtp port: 465 encryption: use ssl encryption authentication: turn on authentication username: your complete gmail address, e.g. john.smith@yourdomain.com or john.smith@gmail.com password: password of your gmail account click on the save changes button to store your settings. that’s all, you have successfully setup wp mail smtp to use gmail smtp servers. you can now click on the ‘email test’ tab on plugin’s settings page to send a test email and see if everything is working fine. we hope this article helped you learn how to fix wordpress not sending email issue, you may also want to see our list of the most common wordpress errors and how to fix them. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 832 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 99 commentsleave a reply daniel says: dec 10, 2019 at 7:55 am you guys really help me out . i really need this information. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 10, 2019 at 9:26 am glad we could help you with our guide reply bob says: oct 25, 2019 at 7:15 am thank you for the guidance.. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 25, 2019 at 9:44 am you’re welcome reply julie says: oct 24, 2019 at 7:54 am thank you for the guidance.. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 24, 2019 at 10:31 am you’re welcome reply peter says: oct 23, 2019 at 7:08 am thank you for the guidance. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 23, 2019 at 9:45 am you’re welcome reply corinne says: oct 12, 2019 at 12:05 am followed along on how to fix the issue of wordpress not sending emails. worked great until about half way through. what was on the website to what was actually happening totally off from each other. did not successfully complete the task and not sure what to do next. please update the help on the website. thanks!! reply wpbeginner support says: oct 14, 2019 at 10:30 am we will certainly take a look at what needs to be updated in this article. reply kate says: sep 30, 2019 at 7:12 pm thanks for the tutorial, it has changed a bit in google dev since you wrote it but i got there in the end. and emails are being sent and received! reply wpbeginner support says: oct 1, 2019 at 9:33 am you’re welcome, it’s difficult to keep up with google’s changes but glad our article could still be helpful reply shahbaaz says: aug 26, 2019 at 12:34 pm i am not receiving wordpress password recovery emails or wordpress confirm emails. what should i do ? i am using google cloud hosting trial. i am a beginner. please help! reply wpbeginner support says: aug 26, 2019 at 12:43 pm it may be the method that wordpress is sending emails, you can change the method your site sends emails using our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-send-email-in-wordpress-using-the-gmail-smtp-server/ reply carla says: jun 11, 2019 at 9:08 am hi there, thanks for this amazing tutorial and so well explained – however i’m still unable to overcome the problem on the main settings. i’m using contactform7 and forms aren’t working duo to this issue. i’m not receiving any email at all to be able to confirm the address change. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 11, 2019 at 10:47 am if you set up smtp properly and the emails are not sending correctly then you would want to reach out to your form’s support to ensure there isn’t an issue with the form itself. reply emmanuel says: apr 25, 2019 at 10:57 am i am currently using google gmail setup and was able to follow the steps to create the gmail api to connect the client id and secret id. i can test the redirection url and login to google all right. however, i’m unable to send a test email. all of sudden the “force from email” check box is also grayed out and uncheck. i can’t check that box. please help reply wpbeginner support says: apr 26, 2019 at 10:37 am for issues with the plugin, please reach out to the plugin’s support through the support forum and they should be able to assist. reply adi hermanto says: apr 11, 2019 at 3:50 pm thanks for brilliant tutorial mate, really did help solve an issue which wasted hours of my time. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 12, 2019 at 10:39 am glad our article could help solve the problem reply ankit says: dec 9, 2018 at 6:43 am thanks !!! which theme are you using? reply wpbeginner support says: dec 9, 2018 at 10:22 am hi ankit, we are using a custom theme made on top of genesis framework. reply penina says: oct 15, 2018 at 2:54 am thank you for the tutorial. it works so well! reply mudasir abbas turi says: sep 21, 2018 at 5:47 am hello dear thank you very much i got success reply pugazhendhi says: aug 22, 2018 at 4:05 am i got an error message 403 forbidden at the last stage of setting up the gmail smtp.can you suggest me something so that i can resolve it to send an email of the enquiry form that i have created using contact form 7. reply joel says: aug 18, 2018 at 10:06 pm i installed the wp mail smtp plugin and although you made a great effort to demonstrate connectivity with mailgun, your info was not necessarily dated with godaddy’s cpanel. i decided to go with sendgrid which was a much easier set process than mailgun. reply brad says: jul 25, 2018 at 8:19 pm i successfully installed wp mail smtp and got the confirmation test email. however, i don’t know how to attach it to my website. the current contact form in zerif lite gives me an error message. please advise. thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 27, 2018 at 12:29 am hi brad, please contact your theme support. alternately you can use wpforms lite to add a contact form to your website. reply jason says: jul 24, 2018 at 11:56 am i was able to set up wp mail smtp to work with contact form 7, but in all emails we receive they always show my gmail as the sender but not the real senders email. is there anyway to fix this problem? reply josin says: jun 25, 2018 at 1:41 am i get the following error when i try to authorize the plugin to send mails using gmail. “the web server is configured to not list the contents of this directory or you do not have enough permissions to access the resource” how can i tackle this error? reply alicia says: jun 20, 2018 at 8:02 pm i tried twice to follow these directions and everything was going according to plan… but then at the end… and error message! anyone know what this means? the oauth client was not found. reply will says: jun 3, 2018 at 6:21 am my problem is that wordpress won’t send emails to or from an address that is coming from my domain name. e.g. @domain.com. but it will send from any other email address type. reply md sajid says: may 10, 2018 at 12:53 am i successfully setup my site, and it is working very well. thanks for this nice and working tutorial.. i used gmail api first method.. sorry for my bad english reply idayat says: may 4, 2018 at 5:23 pm hello, please does anyone know how can stop wordpress from sending automatic emails to blog subscribers, i want to use mailchimp but it seems i have to first disable wordpress. thank you reply lyndsay says: apr 17, 2018 at 2:23 pm great instructions! clear, easy to follow and they work! reply iman says: apr 6, 2018 at 4:14 am thank you so much. you have tutorial helped me fix my email problem . this was one of the best tutorials i have ever seen. every step is very well explained. reply alex says: mar 8, 2018 at 4:35 pm hi, i have installed smtp – i think right.. but i’m still not receiving emails from the contact form. i’m also not getting new order notifications. can someone please help me? reply sagar awal says: apr 3, 2018 at 3:58 am check spam mail. reply nifemi says: mar 4, 2018 at 8:52 pm i’ve completed all the steps using mailgun but when i try to send a test email to my other webmails in that same domain, they never get delivered. however it works pretty well with other emails such as gmail. any idea about what might be causing this issue? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 5, 2018 at 9:19 am hi nifemi, please contact mailgun support they would be able to help you troubleshoot this. reply ron says: feb 21, 2018 at 11:34 am is there a way to find the emails that were sent and you did not receive because of this issue? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 21, 2018 at 6:18 pm hi ron, default wordpress notification emails are not stored in the database. however, if you are using a plugin which stores entries in the database then you may be able to see them. reply daniel koo says: feb 20, 2018 at 10:43 am instead of the success! message, i get an error like this: ——– not acceptable! an appropriate representation of the requested resource could not be found on this server. this error was generated by mod_security. ——- what is the problem? reply colin says: may 3, 2018 at 6:44 am i’m having the exact same problem. the answer appears to lie in complicated css maneuvers that i hate. reply abhishek kumar says: jan 25, 2018 at 7:58 pm thank you so much for useful tutorials. reply anthony says: jan 25, 2018 at 2:36 am thank a lot. i followed your method 1 and it worked perfectly! reply michael zorko says: jan 9, 2018 at 2:19 pm so…this used to be my go to app. found a similar help video from you guys a while back. loved mailgun – then they started changing their policy. now, it only works for verified email addresses..unless…you put a credit card on file. reply jack hernandez says: jan 5, 2018 at 12:52 pm i’ve been having problems with admin and users (and new users) not receiving automatic notifications. will this also solve that issue? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jan 5, 2018 at 10:01 pm hi jack, yes, it would. missing notifications are almost always caused by email issues in wordpress. reply chloe says: jan 3, 2018 at 2:51 pm hi, i’m confused in the step of opening the cpanel in the hosting account. what is the hosting account? is it found in wordpress? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jan 3, 2018 at 9:09 pm hi chloe, seems like you are using wordpress.com. please see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. reply owen says: jan 1, 2018 at 1:18 pm i was having the exact same problem with e-mails not sending and these instructions were v useful. i have now fully resolved the issue – thank you very much reply wpbeginner support says: jan 2, 2018 at 7:31 pm hi owen, we are glad you found the instructions helpful you may also want to subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. reply amol says: dec 19, 2017 at 11:50 pm hello, thank you for the topic. it helped me a lot and fixed the issue i was struggling with for last 3 days. regards, amol reply fred says: dec 1, 2017 at 12:08 am i started to use the video guide and the first step was to set up a mailgun account. i created a password and clicked the verification link in my email to complete the account. however they then wanted to text me a confirmation code to a cell phone as a second verification. i only own a landline not a cell phone and there was no workaround so it is impossible for me to use mailgun. i realize most people these days have cell phones but it seems stupid they would not allow signup via computer (or via a voice code over the phone). reply fernán says: nov 20, 2017 at 8:21 pm thank you so much! i just had some changes regarding domain settings, and this pointed me in the right way. reply pankaj kumar says: nov 1, 2017 at 7:45 am hi, if i am using zoho mail for example.com for email. can i still use mail1.example.com and configure mx record? will it work or stops my email account created on zoho mail for example.com reply melinda thome says: sep 25, 2017 at 11:57 pm this worked perfectly, and solved all my wordpress email sending issues. thank you!! melinda reply leo says: jul 13, 2017 at 10:49 am my wordpress send emails, but, this emails go to spam folder… i need a soluction. i try using codes from functions.php but does not work. my solution was install mail bank plugin but, i dont want this plugin. i want a simple soluction. reply casey says: may 15, 2017 at 2:04 pm hello! i am having issues with my contact page, we are not receiving new contact information in our crm site. can you please guide me to fix the issue? reply doron says: may 8, 2017 at 3:08 am hey thanks for the great tutorial. i’m getting “mailgun http api test failure; status “free accounts are for test purposes only. please upgrade or add the address to authorized recipients in account settings.” do you know why or how to resolve? (added an “authorized user” to my acount) reply alex cramer says: may 9, 2017 at 2:33 pm i’m having the same problem. i also don’t understand how to get to the cpanel. what am i missing? reply lawrence ip says: may 5, 2017 at 6:00 am ah! when in doubt add this txt record. @ v=spf1 include:_spf.google.com ~all that is, this works for namecheap (and most likely others) when gmail is enabled. enjoy! reply aaron williams says: apr 26, 2017 at 4:38 pm i am having the problem that the wp_mail() function is not showing up in our functions.php document. if i read the documentation correctly, that means gmail smtp plugin still won’t work because it uses that function still. every time i have tried to add the wp_mail() function it has resulted in a fatal error that kills the website and i have to remote into our server to delete the code to get the page working again. any ideas? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 26, 2017 at 9:19 pm hey aaron, wp_mail function resides in the core wordpress files, so you will not find it in your theme’s functions.php file. since it is already part of the core, you do not need to add it. try installing gmail smtp plugin, and it should work. reply clare says: apr 20, 2017 at 10:37 pm hi there, so happy to have found this tutorial! can anyone tell me if you need to use a subdomain to setup mailgun? we have set this up using our root domain and are having some issues and i am wondering if this could be why. any advice would be appreciated! thanks, clare. reply michael halbrook says: may 4, 2017 at 12:23 am it can cause problems if you set it up with out one from what i’ve been reading, because if you set up the mx records for mailgun with your current e-mail address it can be problematic. reply michael tillman says: jan 28, 2017 at 10:55 am great tutorial. i have to say the narrator has a really nice voice, nice and pleasant. reply eric says: nov 14, 2016 at 7:52 pm using mailgun worked like a charm. thanks! reply john f says: nov 14, 2016 at 6:00 pm will this fix conformation email not sending? reply callan says: nov 7, 2016 at 11:56 pm hi, i think i found an easy workaround for this problem. when setting up form fields, instead of using the generic email field i just use a different type of field and mark it as a “required” field. that way people will know that it is a required field and still provide you with a valid email address. i have just had the same problem with all of a sudden wordpress not sending me mail from anyone who has a gmail address. i’ve changed the field types and am again receiving emails from submitted forms. i’d be interested to see if anyone else would try to see if this works. reply steve says: nov 5, 2016 at 11:31 am first off…very informative article…including the youtube video on setting up the google apps for work. so thank you for that! a couple questions: i use mad mimi for my email marketing…and they sent the below article out a while ago telling gmail users to not use gmail addresses for sending out mad mimi email campaigns (which is what i used to do), but instead to use a custom domain. so that’s what i did. i set up a custom “name@domain.com” address and have been using that. if i want to use the exact same “name@domain.com” address for the google apps for work setup to receive notifications from my wordpress site…will this mess up stuff with the mad mimi emails? additionally, i currently have my personal gmail setup to be able to send and receive email from the “name@domain.com” address…so how is that effected as well? do i need to delete that stuff out of there if i go with this google apps for work option to fix my issue with not receiving my wordpress notification emails? thank you so much in advance for any clarification on this. reply « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.