wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials » how to install wordpress in other languages how to install wordpress in other languages last updated on january 22nd, 2018 by editorial staff 213 shares share tweet share pin do you want to use wordpress in other languages? wordpress is fully translated into over 65 languages and can be used in your native language. in this article, we will show you how to install wordpress in other languages. since this is a comprehensive step by step tutorial, feel free to use the navigation below to get to the appropriate section. getting started with wordpress in other languages choosing a language during wordpress installation changing language in wordpress manually installing wordpress translation files for other languages using an english admin interface in multilingual wordpress creating a multilingual wordpress website help translate wordpress in your language to make it easy, we have created a video tutorial on how to install wordpress in other languages that you can watch below. subscribe to wpbeginner however if you just want to follow text-instructions, then you can follow our step by step tutorial on how to install wordpress in other languages. getting started with wordpress in other languages in order to start a blog, the first thing you will need is to get wordpress hosting. we recommend using bluehost. they are one of the largest wordpress hosting providers in the world. they are also an officially recommended wordpress hosting provider. after signing up with a wordpress host, the next step is to install wordpress. we have a complete step by step tutorial on how to install wordpress properly. choosing a language during wordpress installation wordpress 4.0 came with the new and improved internationalization support. now users can choose a language for their wordpress website during the installation. this is particularly useful if you need installation instructions to be in your local language. however, if you didn’t select the language during your wordpress install process, then you can change it any time under wordpress settings. changing language in wordpress wordpress makes it super-easy to change the language on your website. simply go to settings » general in your wordpress dashboard, and scroll down to the bottom of the page. there you will see the option to select site language. while wordpress has translations for over 162 languages, you will be only able to see languages that are fully translated (62). if you do not see your language in the list, this does not mean that it is not available or that you can not use it. we will show you how to manually install language packs in wordpress. manually installing wordpress translation files for other languages wordpress uses a gettext system for translations (localization and internationalization). volunteer users from around the world use a main .pot template file to translate wordpress in their languages. this results into two files for each language. portable object format file with .po extension, and machine object file with .mo extension. you will need a .mo file for your language. go to the wordpress translation teams page to see if there is a wordpress translation available for your language. next, click on the percentage value to see the status of the translation progress in your language and then click on current wordpress version. you will now reach glotpress, which is a web based app used by wordpress team to manage and translate wordpress projects. once there, you need to scroll down to the bottom until you see the export section. in the dropdown, select machine object message catalog (.mo) and then click on export link. repeat the process above and select portable object message catalog (.po) and then click on the export link. after downloading and unzipping the language pack on your computer, you will need to connect to your website using an ftp client. once connected, upload the language files to /wp-content/languages folder. after you’re done uploading the file, return to the wordpress admin area. go to settings » general page and scroll down to site language option. you can now select the language you just uploaded because it will appear under installed languages. using an english admin interface in multilingual wordpress sometimes you may want to use wordpress in a different language while keeping the admin interface in english. this is particularly helpful if you have admins who are not familiar with other installed languages or you give access to developers. you will need to install and activate the english wordpress admin plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, the plugin will add a language switcher in the wordpress admin bar. each user can simply take the mouse over to the language switcher and select the admin interface language. for more detailed instructions, take a look at our guide on how to use english wordpress admin on multilingual site. creating a multilingual wordpress website wordpress can be used in different languages but creating content in multiple languages is not easily manageable by default. luckily, there are several plugins that allow you to easily create and manage multilingual wordpress sites. these plugins allow you to create content in multiple languages and making it easier for your website visitors to switch languages. we recommend using wpml (wordpress multi language) plugin. this paid plugin is used by thousands of websites from all over the world to create user friendly multilingual websites with wordpress. see our guide on how to create a multilingual wordpress site with wpml for detailed instructions. if you are looking for a free solution, then you can checkout polylang plugin. take a look at our guide on creating multilingual wordpress site with polylang. help translate wordpress in your language if you did not find an available translation for wordpress in your language, then perhaps you can help create one. wordpress is an open source software that is completely volunteer driven. see: why is wordpress free and how does it make money? this means that all available translations that you see right now are created by volunteer users from around the world (just like you). check out translating wordpress website for more information on how you can contribute. we hope that this article helped you install wordpress in other languages. you may also want to take a look at our list of 24 must have wordpress plugins for all websites. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 213 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 37 commentsleave a reply alexa says: nov 29, 2017 at 11:35 am i am trying to install a multi language plug-in on my word press page, i was looking for a drop down box option where users could select the translation they would like for the entire site. i have downloaded polylang and other multi language plug-ins and followed wp tutorials to assist in setting it up but i havent had success with setting it up to work properly on the web page. can you maybe give me any information or tips to help me get it set up correctly. reply ali says: may 3, 2017 at 12:43 pm hi when my customers want to register to my wordpress site, they can’t use their current language in username text box and unfortunately they must just use english language in username text box. could you guide me how can i change this case? thanks reply pagio says: apr 29, 2017 at 8:59 am hi there, the link to your guide “on creating multilingual wordpress site with polylang” isn’t working. it takes me to “how to create a multilingual wordpress site with wpml” page. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 30, 2017 at 4:19 pm hey pagio, thank you for notifying us. we have fixed the link. reply mark klinefelter says: sep 21, 2016 at 12:44 pm i use gtranslate off of the wp.org plugin page. it is free. excellent translations. i speak fluent spanish and the translation is excellent. i use it as a widget and pages where i do not have a sidebar i throw the shortcode in wherever i want the language selector to be located. give it a try. it translates everything: menu, header, footer, all content, all everything. reply robin gray says: aug 19, 2016 at 10:20 am i’m translating instructions into german (and subsequently into french) for someone working in the social media field who uses wordpress. where can i find english-german and english-french glossaries of typical wordpress dashboard expressions? reply junaid shahid says: apr 27, 2016 at 5:09 am thanks for your support admin but it’s not work as you said define(‘wplang’,’ur_pk’); please check the domain and suggets me whats to do for rtl regards junaid shahid reply wpbeginner support says: apr 27, 2016 at 4:55 pm does your wordpress theme supports rtl? please contact your theme developer and ask them how to add rtl support. reply junaid shahid says: apr 27, 2016 at 10:20 pm it’s sahifa wordpress theme and support rtl in arabic but there is no option of urdu reply junaid shahid says: apr 26, 2016 at 9:54 am i want to create my website based on urdu language, international code of urdu is ur so the given code is some like this define (‘wplang’, ‘ur’); but i do not effect the website, actually i want to change the website from rtl so what i do now regards: reply wpbeginner support says: apr 26, 2016 at 7:25 pm try this line: define(‘wplang’,’ur_pk’); reply prabhakar shelke says: mar 3, 2016 at 1:17 am hi, i have developed my website in bydefault english language. now i need to change the bydefault language as a french. and admin should be in english only. how could i do this. could you please suggest the solution for it or suggest any plug in which working like this… many many thanks… reply wpbeginner support says: mar 4, 2016 at 12:55 am please see: how to use english wordpress admin on a multilingual wordpress site reply sameh says: nov 21, 2015 at 12:24 pm how can i keep the admin page in english and convert the site to a right to left language (arabic)? reply wpbeginner support says: nov 21, 2015 at 3:06 pm you can try a plugin like english wordpress admin. reply jack praker says: aug 15, 2015 at 5:39 am is the description of “manually installing wordpress translation files for other languages” still valid? isn’t the ‘wplang’-string in the new version of wp deprecated? – same with the wp native dashboard plugin, which seems outdated. perhaps you will find time to update how to install translations files? it is an important issue and people like need such information. reply ajay singh says: mar 18, 2015 at 3:47 am is there any plugin for multilanguage site english and hindi?? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 18, 2015 at 7:31 pm see our tutorial on how to easily create a multilingual wordpress site. reply chana says: nov 3, 2014 at 6:22 am hi, where are those folders? sorry about this stupid question… [/wp-content/languages/ or /wp-includes/languages/ folder] reply wpbeginner staff says: jul 3, 2014 at 4:44 pm please see our guide on how to find and translate a translation ready wordpress theme. reply manuel echeverry says: jul 4, 2014 at 1:50 pm yea it worked, tank you alot! reply manuel echeverry says: jun 12, 2014 at 6:26 pm now that i have installed spanish pack how do i translate to spanish the parts of my theme (crangasi) that are in english? reply sanjiv kumar says: jun 2, 2014 at 6:45 am i have a question: i want to know that my site difault language on system in german and same site open in phone by default language is english .how can i do ? reply wpbeginner staff says: apr 28, 2014 at 4:43 pm yes you can. we will try to cover this in an upcoming tutorial. thanks. reply smiley says: apr 26, 2014 at 10:12 am thank you very much on your tutorial …. i have a question : i want to know if i can translate the front page and keep my admin page in english , especially for my rtl , like arabic reply sameh says: nov 21, 2015 at 12:24 pm hello smiley, did you figure out a way to maintain the admin page in english while converitng the site to rtl? i’d like to do the same. reply arifur rahman says: jan 31, 2014 at 8:42 am thanks for the tutorial. i was searching for this tutorial for a long time and today i got it. i am grateful to you. reply piet says: jun 13, 2013 at 6:55 pm good tutorial and i think it is very important that people understand how it is done manually. for people that don’t have a lot of time or just cannot be bothered, there is an alternative method to localize your wordpress install by using the plugin wordpress language (by the same developers as wpml – http://wordpress.org/plugins/wordpress-language/) reply leo says: may 21, 2014 at 11:52 pm thanks so much, this cannot be more helpful! reply mathew porter says: jun 13, 2013 at 3:14 pm nice article, might be able to deploy this for a wp project we did that is being handed over to a french distributer. thanks. reply faiz alam says: jun 13, 2013 at 7:51 am wow!! its great to see, how to install wp in other language… reply galaxyes says: jun 12, 2013 at 7:28 am i want to keep the wp admin in english, but show a lang=”es” in the code, because the content is in spanish. how can i change that in the whole site? reply kris says: jun 11, 2013 at 11:30 pm nice tut. reply dschragg says: jun 11, 2013 at 1:35 pm this is great for translating the backend, but what about the front? i’ve used wpml in the past and was wondering if there were any better options out there…? reply piet says: jun 13, 2013 at 6:50 pm important to keep in mind that if you want to use wpml that you do not need a localized wordpress install ever. wpml needs the default (us english) wordpress install. reply chaim says: jun 11, 2013 at 10:00 am thank you very much for this post, it was very helpful. can you please publish a post about how to translate wordpress themes to a right-to-left language? if it is too complicated, can you please write some guide lines? thank you very much, chaim reply zimbrul says: jun 11, 2013 at 9:32 am didn’t know about this method. i use another one instead. i use the wordpress install zip file in the language i desire (mostly romanian) and the whole installation is in romanian. now, i’ve got the whole site in romanian but i cannot stand the admin area so i use “admin in english” plugin to convert the dashboard in english, the language of choice for me when using the dashboard. obviously, i use the manual install of the wordpress as i can set up the database and the password to my liking (and i think any blogger should know at any time how to install wordpress manually). reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.