quora sign in cloudflare (product) content delivery networks (cdns) how things work internet security cloud computing how does cloudflare work? does cloudflare just divert malicious traffic? updatecancel abkpldmoa cykrbmcyzcr qfdcdavbtuwahbdhndokgjipthheexqxyv.tcuooeymnhmmaz monitor your aws lambda functions with datadog. visualize the health and performance of all your aws lambda functions. try datadog free. sign up you dismissed this ad. the feedback you provide will help us show you more relevant content in the future.undo 11 answers matthew prince, works at cloudflare updated 392w ago · upvoted by justin paine, works at cloudflare originally answered: how does cloudflare work? saw your question. i'm the ceo of cloudflare so i thought i'd jump in. cloudflare is designed to accelerate and secure any website. our system works somewhat like a content delivery network (cdn), but is designed to be much easier to setup and configure. to explain how the system works, imagine you have a website (quoraiscool.com) and it's running an a server with the following ip address (1.1.1.1). before cloudflare, if someone typed your website's domain (quoraiscool.com) into their browser, or clicked on a link that pointed to your website, the first thing that visitor's computer woul... continue reading loading… singh naina, self-taught senior programmer and most read author in quora. answered 189w ago · author has 716 answers and 1.4m answer views originally answered: how does cloudflare work? i use cloudflare in my website and have seen quick load time in my website. cloudflare is a cdn (content delivery network) whose work is to host your website static contents in its server and this static content is then served to your website visitors. what is static content in a website? a static content is that which does not change much often like your website images, css, scripts. what cloudflare does is that it downloads all your website static content to its server and from there it serves it to your website visitors. how it speeds up website by serving static content? cloudflare is a dis... continue reading loading… view more related questions what does cloudflare do? what is a free alternative to cloudflare? should i buy cloudflare protection from hostinger? is cloudflare dns safe? what are the disadvantages of using cloudflare? why do i need cloudflare? does cloudflare work with naked domains? does cloudflare's free cdn plan work well? how does cloudflare provide ddos protection? how does it work? does using cloudflare affect search engine rankings? is cloudflare free cdn worth using? what is the point of cloudflare? how accurate are cloudflare traffic stats? what is cloudflare? why are they so prominent, and why do so many websites use it when if cloudflare goes down, so do their clients? how does amazon route 53 compare with cloudflare? related questions what does cloudflare do? what is a free alternative to cloudflare? should i buy cloudflare protection from hostinger? is cloudflare dns safe? what are the disadvantages of using cloudflare? why do i need cloudflare? about · careers · privacy · terms · contact