i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: spicy savory french toast recipe drinks recipes how to make fluffy frothy whipped coffee: tips and tricks for making dalgona coffee a three ingredient, pantry friendly way to have a picture perfect coffee when you can’t go out to a cute cafe. posted march 25, 2020 by stephanie dalgona coffee is having a moment. it’s viral on tiktok, trending on twitter, and blowing up my insta feed. it’s pretty, it tastes good, and it’s probably the best way to to spend some time while you’re at home during the stay home covid campaign. the best part about it is that you only need three ingredients, two of which you probably already have at home so that means no need to put in a delivery order or go to the grocery store. if you have instant coffee, sugar, and milk, you’re fluffy coffee ready. it’s super simple: mix equal parts coffee, sugar, and hot water, then whip until it turns into a luxe and silky thick creamy foam. spoon it on to some iced milk (which is literally just milk with ice in it) then enjoy, no starbucks run needed. dalgona coffee, fluffy coffee, frothy coffee, whipped coffee – whatever you want to call it, here are all your questions answered right here! what is dalgona coffee? dalgona coffee is a whipped frothy coffee that’s made from instant coffee and sugar, then put on milk. it’s called dalgona because the fluffy creamy coffee looks like dalgona candy, a candy from south korea that’s just like honeycomb toffee or sponge toffee. you’ve probably eaten honeycomb toffee before, covered in chocolate. i haven’t had it in years but it’s good. where did dalgona coffee come from? the popularity of dalgona coffee mostly stems from south korea where it started trending because of social distancing/isolation. everyone was stuck at home and instagramming their daily lives and dalgona coffee caught on, probably because you don’t need much to make it and it’s really cute. whipped coffee exists elsewhere in the world too – apparently it came to the korea consciousness via a big korean actor discovering it in macau, but they also have it in india and pakistan. do i have to use instant coffee? yes, it has to be instant coffee. there’s something about instant coffee crystals that creates the right frothy texture to whip up. you can use decaf too if you’re sensitive to caffeine – i’m pretty sure it’ll froth up the same way but i can’t guarantee it because we don’t have any decaf instant coffee at home. do i have to use sugar? short answer, yes. long answer, not really? the sugar really helps the instant coffee whip to a fluffy meringue-like texture that holds its shape for a while. but, i’ve also made it using stevia in the raw and that worked too (i assume other granulated sweeteners will as well), but it wasn’t as fluffy. if you’re really sensitive to sugar, you can reduce it down, just know that your fluff won’t be as fluffy. do i have to use a hand mixer? you can use your arm muscles and a whisk, like i did. it didn’t take long at all, but maybe i have a lot of experience whipping cream and meringues. if you have a hand mixer, stand mixer, frother, or whisk you can make dalgona coffee. does it have to be iced milk? you can use hot milk or iced, it’s up to you! i went with iced because it makes the milk go farther and i need to stretch out my milk for as long as possible because i’m literally frightened to go to the grocery store. you can also use evaporated milk (which comes in cans, perfect!), either watered down a bit or not. what does it taste like? it’s velvety and creamy and full of sweet coffee flavor. kind of a like a non-icy frappuccino. it’s full of strong coffee flavors and pretty darn sweet. but if you’re not so concerned about getting that picture perfect fluffy cap, you can ease up on the amount of fluffy coffee you put on top of your milk. hope you guys give this a try. i absolutely loved it when i made it with just 1 teaspoon of coffee and 1 teaspoon of sugar. as long as you go with equal parts coffee, sugar, and water, you can make the fluffy coffee of your dreams. in the recipe below i kept it at 2 tablespoons of each and made 2 coffees, but feel free to adjust as needed. stay safe and healthy at home :) dalgona coffee dalgona coffee, fluffy coffee, frothy coffee, whipped coffee - whatever you want to call it, it’s an easy 3 ingredient recipe for picture perfect coffee when you can’t go out to a cute cafe serves 2 prep time 1 min cook time 4 mins total time 5 mins ingredients 2 tbsp instant coffee 2 tbsp sugar 2 tbsp very hot water 2 glasses milk with ice cubes instructions bring small pot of water to a boil. while the water’s coming to a bowl, make the dalgona coffee fluff: in a large bowl, mix together the instant coffee and sugar. once the water comes to a boil, carefully add 2 tablespoons of the hot water to the coffee sugar mix and whisk or use a hand mixer to whip until light and frothy. fill two glasses with ice and pour in the milk. top the glasses with equal amounts of the fluffy coffee. stir throughly before enjoying! 17 comments dennis says: march 25, 2020 at 5:58 am just because you only mention korea, india and pakistan – i believe this was invented by nescafe in greece in 1957. i know this as frappé coffee and it is very popular in greece. see the wikipedia entry: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/frapp%c3%a9_coffee reply stephanie says: march 25, 2020 at 1:24 pm thanks for the info! reply heather says: march 25, 2020 at 9:20 am are you in the subtle asian cooking group on fb? they received so many dalgona coffee post submissions that they had to stop accepting them lol reply stephanie says: march 25, 2020 at 1:23 pm lololol i don’t facebook >_< reply lauren says: march 25, 2020 at 9:56 am what instant coffee did you use? reply stephanie says: march 25, 2020 at 1:22 pm it was nescafé! reply chloe says: march 26, 2020 at 12:42 am i literally did everything the same but its just not getting fluffy at all!!! what could be my mistake? ugh reply stephanie says: march 26, 2020 at 10:54 am hi chloe, did you use a hand mixer? what kind of instant coffee did you use? what kind of sugar? was your water boiling hot? reply eseosa says: march 26, 2020 at 7:14 am can you use instant cappuccino cause i dont have any other instant coffee. reply eseosa says: march 26, 2020 at 9:03 am or can i use cocoa, btw i love your recipes. reply stephanie says: march 26, 2020 at 10:50 am ooh i haven’t tried with cocoa, that sounds amazing :) thanks for the kind words! reply stephanie says: march 26, 2020 at 10:51 am i haven’t tried but i hear it’ll foam up but maybe not as much. reply jan says: march 26, 2020 at 12:12 pm can u substitute soymilk? reply stephanie says: march 26, 2020 at 1:26 pm absolutely! reply mama_rc says: march 26, 2020 at 1:11 pm i did exactly as instructed and even used an electric hand mixer, but it’s still not whipped. i even mixed it for an additional 15 mins and i gave up 😞 reply stephanie says: march 26, 2020 at 1:31 pm what kind of instant coffee was it? reply sabrina says: march 26, 2020 at 7:20 pm fun way to make coffee, thank you, even if i go with the less frothy stevia version, good to know that works too! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website coffeedrinksmilksugar 6 keto friendly low carb coffees to order at starbucks for fallread the best french toast you’ll ever eat: churro french toast sticksread super easy 2 ingredient small batch caramelized palmier pinwheelsread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved