wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to create a multilingual wordpress site with wpml how to create a multilingual wordpress site with wpml last updated on june 21st, 2017 by editorial staff 600 shares share tweet share pin do you want to make your website available in multiple languages? by default, wordpress does not come with features required to create a proper multilingual site. that’s why in this tutorial, we will show you how to create a multilingual wordpress site with the popular wpml plugin. why create a multilingual wordpress site using wpml? you can use wordpress in any language that you want. it is super easy to create a website in any single language. most popular wordpress themes and plugins are also translation ready which makes it easy for anyone in the world to start a wordpress site in their language. however, by default wordpress can support only one language at a time. what if you wanted to use multiple languages on a site to attact a much wider audience? governments, international businesses, and educational institutes often need to offer their website in multiple languages. while machine translations like google translate is an option, it’s often not acceptable for most professional organizations. one way to offer multiple language options is to install wordpress in subdomains for each language. this is a lot of hassle, as you will have to manage updates, and backup all those installations. wpml (wordpress multilingual plugin) solves this problem by allowing your website to become multilingual. you can use the same wordpress installation to create content into many different languages. it offers an easy to use interface for managing translations. it also adds language switching options for your users. having said that, let’s see how you can create a multilingual wordpress website with wpml in minutes. creating a multilingual wordpress site with wpml first thing you need to do is install and activate the wpml (wordpress multi-language) plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. note: wpml is a paid plugin, but it’s by far the most comprehensive option. there is a reason why over 400,000 websites use wpml for creating a multilingual wordpress site. upon activation, the plugin will add a new menu item labeled ‘wpml’ in your wordpress menu. clicking on it for the first time will take you to plugin’s settings wizard. wpml will automatically detect your wordpress site’s language. you can change it here now if you want. click on the next button to continue. on the next screen, you will be asked to select the languages you want to enable on your site. simply select the languages from the list that you want to add to your site. you can always add or remove languages later if you need. after selecting your site languages, click on the next button. now you will be asked to add a language switcher to your site. this language switcher will allow your users to choose a language to view content in their preferred language. wpml allows you to automatically add content switcher as a sidebar widget, in your navigation menu, or display as a plain list. additionally, you can also choose to select flags or text for language switcher. once you have made the choice, click on the next button. as the final step, you will be asked to enter your site key. if you have not generated one yet, then you can click on ‘generate a key for this site’ button. this will take you to wpml website, where you will be asked to add the site you are coming from to your wpml account. once your site is added, you can click on it to get to your site key. copy and paste this key into your wordpress site. that’s all you have successfully finished the wpml setup wizard. you can now click on the finish button to exit the setup. adding multilingual content into wordpress with wpml wpml makes it really easy to translate every area of your wordpress site into multiple languages. you will be able to easily translate your wordpress posts, pages, tags, categories, and themes into as many languages as you like. adding multilingual posts and pages simply click on the posts menu to view your existing posts. you will notice the languages columns next to your post titles. wpml assumes that your existing content is in your site’s primary language. it will show add buttons for each language next to your posts. click on the add button under a language to translate a post. you can also manage translations by editing a post. on the post edit screen, you will notice the new ‘language’ meta box to manage translations. you can add translated content yourself or you can add users and authors to your wordpress site and have them translate your content for you. wpml also offers a better way to manage users who work as translators on your website. if you purchase their multilingual cms plan, then you can use their translation management module. translation management module allows you to add users as translators regardless of what role they have on your wordpress site. you can even add subscribers as translators. instead of editing posts, these translators will be able to add translations directly in wpml. adding translations for categories and tags wpml allows you to easily translate categories and tags, or any other custom taxonomies that you may be using. visit wpml » taxonomy translation and load the custom taxonomies you want to translate. for example: in this screenshot we selected categories, and it displayed all categories from our example site. click on the add button next to the taxonomy term to add the translation. translating navigation menus wordpress comes with a robust navigation menu system. wpml allows you to translate it just like you would translate posts or taxonomies. visit appearance » menus page on your site. if you have more than one menus, then select the menu you want to translate. in the right hand column, you will see your menu with links to translate into other languages enabled on your site. clicking on a language will create a new menu for that language. you will need to add the same menu items as in your primary language menu. if you have your posts and pages in navigation menus, then you will first need to translate them. after that you can add them from the tabs on the left in edit menu screens. don’t forget to click on the save button to save your menu. translating themes, plugins, & other text with wpml wpml multilingual cms allows you to choose between official translations of themes and plugins or use its own string translator. go to wpml » themes and plugins localization page. by default, you will see ‘don’t use string translation to translate the theme and plugins’ checked. below it, you will see another checkbox to automatically load the theme’s .mo file using ‘load_theme_textdomain’. you can check this box to see if there are any translation files available for your theme. this works only with themes downloaded from the wordpress.org theme directory. this setting doesn’t work very well for most websites. not all wordpress themes and plugins have translations available. in some cases the translations are not good or incomplete. we recommend using wpml’s string translation module to properly translate your theme and plugins for your own site. this module will also allow you to translate custom fields, widgets, and other translatable strings generated by wordpress. we hope this article helped you learn how to create a wordpress multilingual site with wpml. you may also want to see our list of 40 useful tools to manage and grow your wordpress blog. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 600 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 20 commentsleave a reply ajay kumar says: apr 3, 2019 at 2:14 am does it translates automatically or manually, can you explain how it will translates, some of images showing we have to select the tranlated word and check? please let me know, i am going to buy this, if it manually translates how much it takes. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 3, 2019 at 11:10 am wpml is for manual translation but does have the option for automatic/machine translation. if you reach out to wpml they can let you know the specifics reply keith h says: jul 12, 2018 at 6:48 pm do you have any examples of sites that use this? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 13, 2018 at 3:27 pm hi keith, you will find many great examples on their official website under case studies section. reply suraj barai says: may 4, 2018 at 1:21 pm i want to make multiple languages websites. but i can’t understand properly. can you tell how to make. international website that can any one read in any language. reply chetan says: sep 12, 2017 at 12:57 pm hey i have a question i have a website i want to show country specific navigation in website i am using wordpress pls help me reply ahmed salah says: jun 6, 2017 at 5:06 am that was helpful. but what if i my other language is rtl language, how cloud i make style turn to rtl when loading language ? reply ahmed salah says: jun 6, 2017 at 5:04 am thank you ! but what if my other language is rtl language , how could i load rtl style when switching to arabic language ? reply paras says: mar 10, 2017 at 1:48 am hi any one can give me the information, how can i get api response in multi language? reply sanela tomic says: feb 24, 2017 at 7:50 pm hello, i bought it today and i am disappointed i just realise that i need to translate text by myself and put it in a post. if i knew all that languages i would not buy it on first place. its to late to regret now so can you suggest where to translate content ? thank you all reply matilda says: jun 27, 2016 at 4:01 pm need for speed! anyone have advice of how to increase speed while using wpml? do have a problem…. reply henry barrow says: jun 27, 2016 at 3:34 pm hello, i would like to know how many languages could add to my site?. i would like to add many languages to my site as i want to market to different nationalities. i would also like your advice on my site. i have paid lots of money to have my site build on fivver but all i got was a bunch of different that did not know what they were doing. the site is already built all i need is a few changes on it, i do not have lots of money as mi collect social security to survive for now. any professional advice would be greatly appreciated. p.s i have too many pages on my site that i do not need. should i just delete the ones that i don’t need? my site is: my best regards. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 27, 2016 at 4:22 pm you can add as many languages you want. spend time on learning how to manage and update your website on your own. it will help you save a lot of money. reply george truijen says: jun 27, 2016 at 2:53 pm how does wpml manage the seo? seo ‘demands’ separate titels and url’s ans if only the language differs, than seo finds just perhaps one page. reply editorial staff says: jun 28, 2016 at 4:53 am you can use yoast seo reply henk says: jun 27, 2016 at 9:42 am i’d rather throw myself in front of a train than use wpml for anything. wpml is terrible software that uses techniques that slow down your website significantly. if you have a lot of pages, simply installing wpml can raise your loading time from 1 second do 15 seconds or worse. so, no thanks. reply tattvavit das says: jun 28, 2016 at 5:47 am hi wpbeginner guys, do you have a reply for henk’s comment? i want to have a multilingual site but if it is going to slow down my site by 15 times, it’s not worth it. what’s your take? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 29, 2016 at 6:49 am we do not agree. wpml works just fine even on websites with lots of content. reply amir helzer says: jun 29, 2016 at 2:10 am i’m very sorry to hear that your experience with wpml was not good. we take every feedback about wpml seriously and i want to help you with any problems that you had. if there is a support thread on wpml.org which explains the problems, please add a link to it. reply florentina says: jun 30, 2016 at 9:46 am hi henk. what do you use for your multilingual wp site?thanks reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.