wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how to add navigation menu in wordpress (beginner’s guide) how to add navigation menu in wordpress (beginner’s guide) last updated on june 23rd, 2015 by editorial staff 232 shares share tweet share pin do you want to add navigation menus in your wordpress site? did you know that there is a very easy drag-and-drop menu interface that allows you to create drop-down menus in wordpress. in this step by step guide, we will show you how to add navigation menu in wordpress. navigation menus allow you to present a site structure to your users. they help users find information and browse through different sections of your website. since navigation menus are so important, they are usually placed close to the header in most wordpress themes. navigation menus in wordpress wordpress comes with a navigation menu system that makes it quite easy for beginner users to create and manage menus. the location of the menus can vary from theme to theme. almost all wordpress themes come with at least one menu location. some wordpress themes come with multiple menu locations to accommodate for more complex websites. video tutorial subscribe to wpbeginner if you don’t like the video or need more instructions, then continue reading. creating your first custom navigation menu you can create menus in wordpress by visiting appearance » menus in your wordpress admin area. this will bring you to the edit menus screen which is divided into two columns. the column on your left has your pages, categories, and custom links tab. the column on the right is where you add and adjust menu items. let’s create your first custom navigation menu. provide a name for your menu, e.g. ‘my first menu’ and then click on the create menu button. this will expand the menu area, and it will look like this: as you can see in the screenshot, our demo site has three theme locations labeled primary, secondary, and social. the location names and placements vary from theme to theme. next, you need to select the pages you want to add to the menu. you can do this by selecting the pages listed on the left hand side and clicking on add to menu button. after adding pages to the menu, select the theme location where you want to display the menu and click on the ‘save menu’ button. don’t worry if you’re unsure where each menu location is on your site. you can visit the website to see the menu in action. if you don’t like it, then you can always change the menu location. arranging items in a custom navigation menu you probably noticed that each menu item you added is arranged in the order you added them. for example, your about link appears at the end, while the contact page link appears first. don’t worry you can easily rearrange your wordpress menu items in any order you want. simply drag and drop a menu item to adjust its position in the menu. repeat the process to create new menus for other theme locations. creating nested drop-down menus in wordpress nested menus, also known as drop-down menus, are navigational menus with parent and child menu items. these menus are usually styled by wordpress themes in such a way that when a user takes their mouse to a parent item, all their sub-menus are displayed. creating nested menus allow you to add a properly structured navigation system to your site. here is how you can add a menu item as a sub-menu in wordpress. in your menu structure, drag the menu item just below the parent item. next, slightly drag the menu item to the right. you will notice that it will automatically become a sub-menu item. you can add multiple layers of sub-items to create deeply nested navigation menus. however, it’s important to note that not all themes support multi-layer nested menus. most do up to 2-layers. adding categories to wordpress menus if you’re using wordpress to run a blog, then you can add your blog categories as a drop-down in your wordpress menu. by default, wordpress provides an easier way to add pages and categories from the left-hand column on the menu editor screen. start by clicking on the categories tab to expand it. you will see your blog categories listed there. simply select the categories you want to add to the menu, and then click on add to menu button. you will notice that categories will appear as menu items under menu structure column. just like pages, you can simply drag and drop them to arrange their position on the menu. in this example, we have dragged all categories to appear as sub-menu items under the blog. here’s our tutorial on how to create a separate blog page in wordpress which is very helpful if you want to have a custom homepage for your site. adding custom links to your wordpress navigation menus while adding categories and pages is easy, what if you want to add a link to your social media profile or another location? this is when you can use the custom link option. simply click on the custom link tab in the left-hand column to expand it. you will notice that it only has two fields. the first one is for url where you will need to add the actual link you want to add. the second field is labeled link text where you will add the anchor text for the link. note: it’s important that you must start all links with http:// or https://. if you don’t, then the links will be broken. editing a menu item in wordpress navigation menus when you add pages or categories to your custom navigation menu, wordpress automatically uses the page title or category name as the link text. this does not mean that you cannot change it. all menu items can be edited by simply clicking on the downward arrow next to a menu item. here you can change the menu’s navigational title or link text. you can also add a title attribute to the link. don’t forget to click on the save menu button to store your changes before previewing your website. removing a link from navigation menus in wordpress you can remove a link in the same way you edit them. just click on the downward arrow icon next to a menu item, and you will notice a red remove link. when you clicking on it, the link will be removed from your navigation menus. understanding theme locations for your navigation menus navigation menus are a theme feature in wordpress. their appearance and display is controlled entirely by your wordpress theme. the admin area only provides a user interface to add and manage those menus. wordpress themes usually have at least one theme location for navigation menus. however, some themes may have more than one theme locations such as the theme we used while writing this article which had three theme locations primary, secondary, and a social menu. also it’s important to note that the names of these menu locations would also vary from theme to theme. while some may call it primary another may call it header. it’s entirely based on theme developer’s preference. adding navigation menus in sidebars and other widget ready areas aside from the designated menu locations set by themes, you can also add navigation menus in your sidebar and other widget-ready areas of your theme. for example, if you look at our founder syed balkhi’s website, he’s using menus to add social links and sites he like in his sidebar. you can add menus in your sidebars by using widgets. simply go to appearance » widgets and add custom menu widget from the list of available widgets to a sidebar. next, you need to provide a title for the widget heading and select one of your custom menus from the select menu drop down list. lastly, click on the save button to store your widget settings. you can now visit your website to see your custom menu displayed in your sidebar widget. as for social icons, some themes may come with pre-built social media icons in the menus. alternatively, you can use a plugin like menu social icons to add icons in your navigation menus. we hope this article helped you learn how to add custom navigation menu in wordpress. you may also want to check out our guide on how to style navigation menus in wordpress and how to add image icons with navigation menus in wordpress. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 232 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 84 commentsleave a reply wan says: mar 17, 2020 at 10:16 pm i try to add menu item on my menu structure. even when i save menu, the website doesn’t change. why? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 18, 2020 at 8:36 am you would want to ensure your site or your hosting provider does not have a cache that could be causing your issue. reply keith says: feb 22, 2020 at 6:58 am great resources reply wpbeginner support says: feb 24, 2020 at 11:30 am thank you reply linda mcmillan says: oct 24, 2019 at 5:23 pm hello, i am using elementor and oceanwp. i set up a custom link in my menu so that when clicking on it goes to the home page. how can i make it go instead of just to the home page, but down the page to a certain section? i appreciate your help. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 25, 2019 at 10:03 am you would want to take a look at making an anchor link: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/how-to-easily-add-anchor-links-in-wordpress-step-by-step/ reply annie says: sep 11, 2019 at 7:04 am pretty much there with the navigation. one question though, i have one point in my navigation “products” from there it splits into 3 other sections (drop down menu coming up). i don’t want visitors be able to access this product page as it will be empty, i want them to choose directly from the drop down menu instead of accessing the products page first. so products will be still displayed in the navigation but will be inaccessible, visitors have to click onto the drop down menu to choose what they are after. how do i do this? i m i m removing the whole products section it wont be displayed in the navi anymore, how can i make the products page inaccessible? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 11, 2019 at 9:44 am you can create a custom link under appearance>menus titled products and link it to either a different page or # which should keep the users on the same page they are on. reply terry l. cooper says: may 27, 2019 at 8:26 am how old is this anyway?? i’m not seeing any of this on the wp page. reply wpbeginner support says: may 28, 2019 at 2:48 pm the steps in this article should still work for wordpress.org sites, are you on wordpress.com? https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/self-hosted-wordpress-org-vs-free-wordpress-com-infograph/ reply azizi says: mar 25, 2019 at 12:33 pm sorry sir, which wordpress theme you’re using on wpbeginner.com????? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 1:26 pm we are using a theme we created for our site built on the genesis framework, for more on what we’re using on our site you would want to take a look at our blueprint page here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/blueprint/ reply inzamam ul haq says: oct 11, 2018 at 5:26 am it really helped me. very informative.thanks reply natalie v says: oct 10, 2018 at 11:58 am hi! thanks so much for this post. it helped me a lot. i have the “karuna” theme. whenever i add more menu options (i have 4) they are displayed in two row. i would like them all to be in one row. is there a way to fix this? thank you so much! reply david says: aug 18, 2018 at 2:23 am needed to link a buy now button to woo commerce cart page. spent two days going in circles. tried to contact woo with little success. then found you guys who helped solve the problem. often it is the little things which can stop us in our tracks. a big thank you for the simplified set of clear instructions. reply elliot kershaw says: jul 14, 2018 at 10:17 am hello, i am making a website with ocean wp and elementor, however i am unable to see the menu at the top of all of my pages. it only appears at the top of the home page. so people can navigate to any page from the home page, however if anyone wanted to navigate back to the home page or to another page from there, it would tricky. do you have a solution for this? thank you! reply lindsey says: jun 4, 2018 at 2:52 pm thank you for these instructions, very helpful! i have a question that i think relates back to my menu but i’m not totally sure. when i click on a menu item from the home page the site address adds “aboutme” between the main address and the menu page. i do not have anything called “about me” on my site. i don’t understand why it is adding this extra piece of information to each page. any suggestions on how to remove this “aboutme” information? reply hans says: jun 1, 2018 at 2:18 pm thank you. i learned much knowledge. reply karen says: may 23, 2018 at 11:04 am hi. i am using ocean wp and elementor. i have a menu organized, but there on one of my nested menu dropdown sections i want the first category not to be linked to a page (i tried to remove the link but i failed). the nested section is as follows: therapy (on top)>individual>group i don’t want therapy to lead to a page, it’s blank, it’s just a category i guess. i’ve done this in my previous site but i can’t for the life of me remember how to do it! i did create a “page” called therapy so it would show up in the menu options…help me obi wan kenobi you are my only hope! dr karen reply wpbeginner support says: may 23, 2018 at 12:31 pm hi karen, add your top link therapy as a ‘custom link’. in the url field enter # sign and click add to menu. adjust its position in the menu and then click on save menu button. reply eric wenocur says: mar 20, 2019 at 11:20 pm aha, that’s how you do it! thanks, great tutorials! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 21, 2019 at 11:36 am you’re welcome, glad you like our content saurabh says: may 3, 2018 at 1:09 am hello, we use the two menu system (i.e. primary/top & main/secondary menu) across our websites. and the top/primary menu does not appear on the mobile website. one of our clients, want both the menus to be visible on the mobile site. any suggestions on how to do that? (the website is running on newspaper theme, if that helps.) reply ahmed says: apr 11, 2018 at 1:30 pm suppose i want to post many articles related to android. should i create a android page or android category in my wp menu. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 11, 2018 at 8:53 pm hi ahmed, categories are better to sort your content into different topics. you can add a category to your website’s navigation menu and then it will show all posts filed under that category. reply lerissa says: mar 26, 2018 at 8:28 pm hi – thanks for providing this. i don’t have any items in my pages section, which is strange, because my site has several. did i configure a setting wrong? lerissa reply wpbeginner support says: mar 28, 2018 at 2:42 am hi lerissa, what happens when you click on ‘view all’ under pages? reply tom says: feb 6, 2018 at 11:36 am thanks for this illustration. reply manish ransubhe says: jan 30, 2018 at 1:50 pm hi sir thank you, i have started my new wordpress blog and i stuck on the menu i don’t know how to add menu thanks for your this useful post and your site helped me to launch my website. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 30, 2018 at 6:29 pm hi manish, glad you found this guide helpful. you may also want to subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. reply cyndi jarvis says: jan 3, 2018 at 5:56 pm hi and thanks for your support. i have a website almost completed, pretty basic but want to link the menu items to the page that relevant text exists and somehow be able to take the user back to the main menu with a back button. can you please help. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jan 3, 2018 at 9:00 pm hi cyndi, the tutorial above allows you to link to pages and add them to navigation menus. seems like you want something a little different, can you please provide more details? reply cyndi says: jan 5, 2018 at 4:37 pm thanks for trying to help. i am not looking for anything unusual with my menu in the website. i have menu items setup as home, about us, services, contact. the menu name is first menu and set to primary. what happens is that i click on home and the page flashes but i don’t go anywhere. this happens with all of the menu items i click on. any suggestions what i have setup incorrectly? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jan 5, 2018 at 9:56 pm hi cyndi, you can try this. go to apperance » menus page and click on create a new menu. the following the instructions in the article create new menu by adding your pages from left column to the right. after that select the location for your menu ‘primary’ and then click on save menu button. if this doesn’t solve your issue, then preview your website with a default theme. if your navigation menu works as expected with the default theme, then there may be some issue with your current theme. hope this helps. reply regina clarke says: nov 27, 2017 at 2:45 pm this was so helpful and it worked beautifully on my laptop. but on my iphone the submenu categories i dropped into my blog menu (which all show up indented as they should) also include the description i created of the category. on my laptop that appears on the archive page for each category but on the phone it appears in the dropdown, which makes it all look muddy. is there a way to create yet another indent for just the descriptions under each category, effectively nesting three levels? thanks very much for any suggestions. reply jillian says: oct 27, 2017 at 3:49 pm hi there, i have created a nested menu which looks great in the desktop version, but when it gets to the mobile version everything nested is shown on the menu at once! it creates a super long menu page. i have a responsive theme and am unsure if can be fixed. reply amber shock says: oct 16, 2017 at 6:50 pm thanks for making such an easy to follow video. it helped a lot and i quickly got my issue figured out. reply bartek says: oct 9, 2017 at 11:28 am i have problems that wordpress doesn´t let me add any category any more or even is deleting and changing place of some which were once added. anybody know what can be a reason? reply ahmed azeem says: oct 8, 2017 at 7:36 am my website don’t have option of primary, secondary but main and footer menu. i want to add top menu in my website can you please guide me how to add top menu. also in my portfolio page whatever items i am adding is not showing so kindly help me out regarding that. thanks in advance. reply john says: oct 6, 2017 at 5:37 am i thought this was an explanation about how to add a navigation menu in your wordpress site, but it’s missing the vital code to actually add it to your website. this is the dumbest tutorial (or article title) i have ever seen. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 8, 2017 at 3:25 pm hi john, you may want to check out our tutorial on how to add custom navigation menus in wordpress. reply shibani says: aug 22, 2017 at 9:41 am i have a site where i want to display custom menu which is a category – like travel. it works fine, but it displayed – category – travel above posts. how can i hide that? i’m using wordpress.com and using free plan. reply prachi says: jul 24, 2017 at 7:48 am suppose my website is example.com i want to create a tab called home and place it menu. whenever i am creating this home, the url does not accept example.com it is becoming as example.com/home. what should i do? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 24, 2017 at 9:03 pm hi prachi, wordpress already has a navigation menu that you can use. on the navigation menus screen click on the pages and then click on view all. there you will see all your pages and an item called home. select home and then click on add to menu button. reply john says: jul 5, 2017 at 1:44 am i have followed the above instruction. my menu though will not actually appear on any of the sites pages. may i have some guidance please ? john reply haitham alnaqeb says: aug 11, 2017 at 12:54 pm have tried a different themes? sometime the themes you are using is not supported to some of these futures. reply ike ezeani says: jun 4, 2017 at 6:53 pm i created a second dropdown menu but when i click the main menu i see the dropdown but it takes to a blank page. please help. reply stephen b says: may 16, 2017 at 10:44 pm hello, when i log into my wordpress, my edit menu looks completely different and i am having a significantly difficult time adding menus and customizing my site because of this. can you help me? reply malkeet says: may 4, 2017 at 7:13 am hi, thanks for the nice detailed explanation of adding menu, but how to call this menu ???? reply husnaa says: mar 26, 2017 at 1:33 am thanks for helping me out. keep helping others. reply lucy says: mar 25, 2017 at 8:43 am hi, i’m really struggling with navigation for a clients site and am not sure how to explain what i need. when you click on a top-level menu item, i want it to open an additional menu underneath. each top-level will have a different sub menu that stays activated whilst you are in that area of the site. like on this website when you click on say “commercial solar” another menu appears and allows you to browse the commercial solar area. the top menu stays selected throughout. any help you can offer would be great! thanks lucy reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2017 at 9:12 pm hi lucy, please see our article on how to add a menu item without linking to a page. reply david blaska says: mar 22, 2017 at 3:41 pm i want to link my pages to headers on the home page that synopsize those pages. how to do? (like “our history,” “who we are,” etc.) i have a page for each of those but a small blurb on each on the home page. would like for visitors to click on the header of each of those. reply michael says: jan 28, 2017 at 11:28 am hi, i need for my main navigation window to ‘push up’ as opposed to ‘drop down’. i’m using google doubleclick ad exchange for display ads and they claim that my drop down menu could create false clicks on ads. is there anyway that i could make it push up? reply emma says: dec 4, 2016 at 10:14 am thank you so much for this, been trying to figure out how to create drop down menus, this really helped! reply isa alshabany says: oct 10, 2016 at 3:59 am hello i am a beginner not professional , i am using a template theme & you can see it in my site .. i have an arabic menu .. i need to create an english menu underneath it so english speaking browser can access the english pages .. thanks a lot .. isa reply haitham alnaqeb says: aug 11, 2017 at 12:59 pm i think you need to have multi wordpress websites and insert a code in your landing page to redirect your visitors based on their computers language or countries. each of these website will have a wordpress with its language because it is does not make sense to me if i log in into an arabic websites that has only menu in english or the opposite. reply steven denger says: oct 9, 2016 at 10:51 pm helo – i have a subdomain for . i really do not use it except to store pages. on one experiment, i use a css code for a page to hide header and navbar. but since then when i removed the css code and tried to create a menu, the nav bar will not show. i am quite familuar with wordpress menus and how to place them. but i just cannot get this one to show. i exported some pages into this subdomain and tried to create a menu – but it is no use – it just will not show. this is what gets me about wordpress – you never know when or how it is going to go haywire. would ou know what the matter is? reply paul nye says: oct 7, 2016 at 3:14 pm how can i add a drop down menu in an area of a page other than my sidebar widget? reply mary says: sep 28, 2016 at 8:21 pm hi there, i was actually wondering if the custom menu takes the place of the default navigation menu. how does it effect the existing default menu and its nesting? i would have to remember to add my pages to the custom menu. it may sound silly, but this seems very complicated to me. i wanted to make a few pages unclickable (like “reviews”) and i like the eventual idea of sub nesting thanks for putting so much energy into this article. mary reply munir says: sep 11, 2016 at 7:30 am hi all how could i add a menu on a certain page of my website? (i don’t need the menu to appear on the home page or the front page) thank you all reply asir says: jul 25, 2017 at 11:48 am you need to install and activate plugin called (page specific menu items) how to make this plugin work? create a menu from appearance > menus select the menu you want to use from settings > ps menuitems > select menu assign the menu to menu location from appearance > menus check the items you want to hide from pages > edit > page specific menu items view the page and the selected items should be gone. reply jenijeya says: aug 25, 2016 at 6:02 am super to quickly understand reply lucas phan says: aug 18, 2016 at 10:51 pm hey bro, i have a question for you. how to create side menu like this thank bro. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 19, 2016 at 1:31 am can be achieved using css and javascript. see our article on how to add a slide panel menu in wordpress themes, and try using it as a starting point. reply zac says: dec 28, 2016 at 11:59 am hi, i don’t see all those fancy options (e.g., drag and drop sub menus etc) on my free wordpress site. i wonder if the information you gave is for the premium wordpress version. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: dec 28, 2016 at 10:46 pm hi zac, these options described in the tutorial are available in self hosted wordpress.org sites. you are probably using a free wordpress.com website. please see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. bridget says: aug 14, 2016 at 3:17 am thank your for this video. it all seems very simple, but for me when i open wordpress, i do not have the option to choose “appearance.” there is just a link for “menu.” i have created a menu that appears on my blog, but i cannot add categories to it, so the menu is basically useless. when you click on, say, “travel planning” in the menu, it won’t take you to all the article about travel planning, just to something random. i am working on an 11″ laptop, and i read something that said possibly the issue is the size of the screen? if so, i am not sure how to work around that since i travel long term and this is all i have to use. do you have any suggestions? i really want the menu to work so people can find what they’re looking for! thanks! bridget reply hatem tahir says: aug 13, 2016 at 3:20 pm hello, under the menu theme location, i’m not seeing ‘primary’, ‘secondary’, thus the pages i added were not shown on the main header, can you please help. thanks much reply sreekanth says: jul 8, 2016 at 3:14 am thanks for the guide and how to create the catagerious (if you know please create the video) reply deepak raghav says: jul 6, 2016 at 2:01 am hello sir, i wan t to create more navigation menu in my wordpress themes. please tell me how to add more reply dylan says: apr 12, 2016 at 12:43 pm thank you for the insight, found this very helpful. question, i currently have a menu button link to a certain area of my home page, for instance i named a section/column “#portfolio” so the page will scroll down to that section when the menu button “portfolio” is clicked. my problem is that when the user goes to a menu page that loads a new page, my portfolio button wont go back to the home page, its just a dead link/ menu button. reply mija says: apr 10, 2016 at 1:46 pm great-thank you sooooo much for making it so succibt, precise, clear and understandable!!! reply rafi sultan says: mar 29, 2016 at 6:30 am really nice ,every step s defined clearly ,nice material. thanks reply « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.