start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising habit smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut deb knobelman, phd neuroscientist and c-suite business executive who writes about the intersection of mindset, productivity, entrepreneurship and how to reach goals. read full profile share pin it tweet share email we’ve all been there. we wake up one morning and realize that we’ve repeated the same day, over and over. wake up, go to work, eat dinner, go to bed. maybe we sprinkled some family time in there. an occasional trip to the gym. but we long for so much more. more time. time for self-care. time to work on that dream project that we’ve thought about for so long. but we feel stuck. we are on a hamster wheel and we don’t know how to get off. what we don’t realize is that repeating the same day, day in and day out, is simply a habit. according to charles duhigg, author of the power of habit, habits are a three step loop. first, you are given a cue (for example, a time of day like 3pm), you perform a routine (walk to the vending machine), and you receive a reward (candy bar). understanding how habits work is a key to understanding how to change habits. once you change your habits, you can take control of your life and your time. and finally reach those goals that you’ve dreamed about for so long. here are 10 tips for how to change habits when you feel stuck. 1. start with awareness you march through your day without a thought, because it has become a habit. but take some time over the next few days to write down everything you do during the day, and when. include the time you spend on your phone (many phones now have a time tracker on them). you might be surprised at what you see. are you spending more time on activities than you realized? are you mindlessly performing tasks that you don’t need to perform? once you see a few days in black and white, you can better understand what you are doing. and how each habit does or does not align with the larger goals of your life. 2. stop saying yes to everything another parent at your child’s school asks you to make brownies for the bake sale, and you say yes. even though it means that you will have to stay up late, and be too tired to go to the gym the next morning. or the marketing team asks you to sit in on the 2pm call even though you’re not on that project, and you say yes; even though it means you won’t finish a big report today. and will have to use some family time over the weekend to get it done. saying yes is a habit. the cue is someone makes a request. so, of course you say yes. and the reward is that you get to avoid a feeling of guilt. or you get to enjoy feeling needed. but the habit is not serving you. because you are pinging around like you’re in a pinball machine. and you’re not getting to all the things that are important to you. advertising the next time someone asks you to do something. take a minute. break the habit loop. and actually think about the request. before you respond. 3. figure out what is important to you – and what isn’t let’s say you find yourself spending a lot of extra time volunteering at your kid’s school. time that is spent away from your children and your job, and doesn’t improve your health. but when you sit down and think about what is important to you. you realize that you need to prioritize work, family life, and a health goal. so how does that volunteer time fit in? is it important to you, or not? you realize that much of what you do is not related to your own personal priorities. we are all busy. but we need to learn how to change habits that involve doing things that don’t align with our larger goals. so it is important to take the time to figure out what your larger goals are: family, work, health. or, work, health, and writing that book you’ve dreamed about. be mindful of what is important to you. so that you can prioritize your days accordingly. if you aren’t sure how to prioritize your life, this guide can help you: the ultimate guide to prioritizing your work and life 4. if you don’t have a productivity system, create one a productivity system doesn’t have to be complicated. it does have to be something that works for you. basically, a productivity system is a way to make sure that: you are doing tasks that align with your goals you know what those tasks are you know when you are going to do them everyone has a different system. some love to use beautiful paper planners, others prefer an app on their phone. it doesn’t matter how you want to do it. but you need to take control of your own schedule. make a new habit of planning out your day or your week on a regular basis. figure out a cue for it. every day at 5pm i will take 15 minutes to plan out the next day. the cue will be the time of day. the routine is to plan. the reward is to create a day full of intention. advertising 5. start slow – 1% change a day can add up to powerful results when something is a habit, it is well ingrained into our routine. we perform a habit almost mindlessly. so, when we think about how to change habits, we need to start slow. james clear, author of atomic habits, talks about the 1% rule. he says: habits are the compound interest of self-improvement. they don’t seem like much on any given day. but over months and years their effects can accumulate to an incredible degree. basically, you only need to figure out how to change habits by 1% per day to see a significant benefit over the course of a year. so start with one, small habit. when it’s 3pm and you find yourself walking to the vending machine, make your way over to the water fountain instead. or, go outside and walk around the block. pick one thing and make a change. and then go from there. 6. stop listening to all your negative thoughts “i don’t know how to do this.” “i don’t have enough time.” “i’ll fail and then people will judge me.” do any of those thoughts sound familiar? for many people, those thoughts play on a constant loop. telling you what you can’t do. it’s too hard. don’t even try. change is scary. the idea of doing something new, or something that people could judge, can make your heart pound and make your mouth dry. to your body, it feels exactly the same as if you are a caveman being chased by a tiger. so your brain wants to respond the same way. it wants to run away and hide. but guess what? those thoughts are a habit, too. the trigger is that you want to try something new. the routine is to tell yourself you can’t do it. and the reward is to stay in the same routine. one that is safe. where you might not make any progress toward your goals. but you won’t be eaten by a tiger, either. so the next time you hear that voice in your head telling you that you can’t do it. to run away from the fear. remind yourself, it’s a new habit, not a tiger. advertising 7. make a plan for when things do go wrong the psychologist peter gollwitzer came up with the powerful concept of “if-then planning.”[1] the basic idea is this: make a plan that says, if x happens, i am going to do y. gollwitzer showed that this behavior has can have a huge impact on the success of changing habits. let’s say you usually sleep until the last minute before you have to get up for work. but you are looking to start a habit of running in the mornings. and your plan is to run 2 miles tomorrow morning. but when you wake up, it’s raining or snowing. enough that you don’t want to be outside. what do you do? without an if-then plan, you will probably roll over and go back to sleep. but if you made a plan the night before. if the weather is bad, i will go to the gym down the street. and run on the treadmill. the reward will be that i get to watch 30 minutes of a”guilty pleasure” tv. then, when you look out the window and see the rain, you know exactly what to do. and you won’t fall back into your old routine. 8. focus on your effort here’s a secret about everyone you know. everyone has failed. everyone from steve jobs to the co-worker in the cubicle next to you. but what makes the difference is how you manage that failure. do you take failure as a reason to give up? or do you reframe it as a learning experience? accepting failure is a way to stay in that rut. to keep doing what is safe. even though it doesn’t make you happy. accepting failure is a habit. but if you can focus on your effort. your attempts to change. then you can continually learn from any missteps. and keep moving forward. carol dweck found, in her book mindset: the new psychology of success, that the most successful people in the world focus on their effort, not on the outcome. that they frame failures as learning experiences. and, as she says in the book: john wooden, the legendary basketball coach, says you aren’t a failure until you start to blame. what he means is that you can still be in the process of learning from your mistakes until you deny them. 9. celebrate small wins one of the most powerful ways to reinforce how to change habits and make new ones is to give yourself a reward. as charles duhigg wrote in the power of habit: advertising studies of people who have successfully created new exercise routines, for instance, show they are more likely to stick with a workout plan if they choose…a clear reward, such as a beer or an evening of guilt free television. so don’t downplay any positive changes that you make. reward yourself and celebrate: how to celebrate small wins to achieve big goals 10. keep trying let go of the idea that you need to be perfect at this, or that you need to do it all at once. learning how to change habits takes a long time and will need to be refined continually. but when you are feeling down or frustrated, remember this is not about getting on or off a wagon. if you slip up, that doesn’t mean you need to give up and fall back into your old habits. there is no wagon. there are just good days and bad days. if you keep your bigger goals in mind and remember how you long to find more time, work on that side project, or focus on your health, you can do it. keep going and find what works for you! more tips to help you change habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop do you really understand what a habit is? how to break bad habits: i broke 3 bad habits in less than 2 months science tells you how long it takes to break a habit featured photo credit: the journal garden | vera bitterer via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ develop good habits: how if-then plans helps you stick with a new habit share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the ultimate guide to prioritizing your work and life what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop advertising advertising more by this author deb knobelman, phd neuroscientist and c-suite business executive who writes about the intersection of mindset, productivity, entrepreneurship and how to reach goals. how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut how to set goals and achieve them successfully how to measure your team’s productivity effectively how to start a small business that thrives (from the ground up) advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author deb knobelman, phd neuroscientist and c-suite business executive who writes about the intersection of mindset, productivity, entrepreneurship and how to reach goals. how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut how to set goals and achieve them successfully how to measure your team’s productivity effectively how to start a small business that thrives (from the ground up) trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how long does it take to break a habit? science will tell you how to break bad habits: i broke 3 bad habits in less than 2 months how to celebrate small wins to achieve big goals how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.