wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials » how to use user generated content in wordpress to grow your business how to use user generated content in wordpress to grow your business last updated on november 15th, 2018 by editorial staff 115 shares share tweet share pin did you know that user-generated content can tremendously help you grow your business? user generated content is both relatable and authentic, that’s why it’s a big winner with millennials and gen z. in this article, we will show you how to easily use user-generated content in wordpress to grow your business. what is user-generated content? user generated content (ugc) is the content generated by user activities on your website. this includes comments, testimonials, guest blog posts, user reviews, or any other user submitted content that is publicly visible and was a direct result of user action. why is user generated content important? user generated content is important because it enables your users to directly take part in activities on your website. this boosts user engagement as users spend more time on your website. engaged users are more likely to subscribe to your website and buy what you’re selling. high-quality and useful user-generated content can help you plan an effective content marketing strategy. you can get more traffic, more affiliate sales, and more social reach to a wider audience. that being said, let’s take a look at different ways to use user-generated content in wordpress. you can use all of them or just the ones that works best for you. 1. comments comments are the easiest kind of user-generated content that every blog can have. wordpress comes with a built-in commenting system that is enabled on all your blog posts by default. if you run a business website with no blog, then perhaps you should think of adding a blog. you can keep your existing website design and just add a separate blog page to it. the tricky part is to get your users to comment. most users usually leave without writing a comment. however, the good news is that there are a lot of ways to encourage more comments. see our article on how to get more comments on your blog posts. 2. testimonials testimonials not only help generate content, but they also add social proof to your website which helps new users into buying. for a small business website, testimonials have proven to be a very effective marketing strategy. this is why you see them all around the web. there are several great testimonials plugins that help you easily add testimonials to your site. you can collect user testimonials using a simple form and display them in a slider, sidebar widget, or on a testimonials page. our team behind wpforms has done an excellent job in creating a wpforms review page that shows over 2500+ user testimonials. for detailed instructions, see our tutorial on how to easily add rotating testimonials to your wordpress site. 3. user submitted reviews if you sell or recommend products/services on your website, then user reviews offer a great opportunity to add more user-generated content to your website. reviews not only help you keep users engaged, but they also help other users make buying decisions on your website. that’s why you see many niche reviews sites that heavily rely on user submitted reviews to make money online. search engines also love reviews and often highlight them differently in search results. this makes the item more noticeable in search results and brings more traffic to your site. there are several wordpress product review plugins that you can use. you can also create a separate page for customer reviews or display your google, facebook, and yelp reviews to get the ball rolling. 4. guest posts guest blogging is a popular content marketing strategy that helps both the blog owner and the guest author. the guest post author gets exposure and backlinks while you get high-quality content. the easiest way to do that would be to create a new user account for the guest author. however, this would give the guest author access to your wordpress admin area which many site owners don’t feel comfortable with. in that case, you’ll need the front-end post submission plugin by wpforms. it allows you to easily accept user submitted posts on your website. these posts are then stored as drafts, which you can then review and publish. you can also use it to create other types of user-generated blog content such as image submissions (memes, photo contests, etc). for detailed instructions, see our article on how to allow users to submit posts to your wordpress site. 5. build a community human beings are social, and we like to interact with each other. you can provide your visitors a chance to do that on your own site by building a membership community. you can make some of your content members-only to encourage new sign-ups. after that you can encourage discussions, reward users for participation, and even create membership levels with paid subscriptions. the easiest way to do all that is by using memberpress. it is the best wordpress membership plugin that allows you to build online communities with powerful controls and great flexibility. you can even add it to an existing site without affecting any of your existing content. for detailed instructions, see our guide on how to make a membership website in wordpress. we hope this article helped you learn how to use user-generated content in wordpress to grow your business. now that you have users spending more time on your website, see how to easily track user engagement on your website with google analytics. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 115 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to start your own podcast (step by step) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. comments congratulations, you have the opportunity to be the first commenter on this article. have a question or suggestion? please leave a comment to start the discussion. leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) liquid web coupon get 50% off on liquid web managed wordpress hosting plans for first 3 months. from just $9.50. complianz gdpr coupon get 15% off on complianz gdpr premium wordpress privacy suite plugin. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.