skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search how you can conquer fear enslave your fear; don’t become enslaved by your fear! what has my whole life been about? conquering fear. some practical thoughts: do you want to conquer fear? the first thing: is it your desire to conquer fear? if yes, then let us continue. the three things mental (stoicism) physical/physiological/muscle/fat-based: the human body media/news/social media let me break this down for you: 1. mental stoicism. don’t let fear paralyze you. transform fear into your slave; you don’t want to be the slave of your own fear. the mental training i’ve done for myself: realize there is no afterlife. once you’re dead, you’re dead. once you’re dead, no pain. we’re only afraid of the pain preceding death. thus if you don’t fear pain, you got nothing to really fear. 2. physical strength to conquer fear, build your body. more muscle, less fat. this is good for everyone– all humans irrespective of race, gender, body type. this is what i’ve learned for myself: the more physically strong i become, the less fearful i am of fate. my theory: the more testosterone you augment in your blood stream, the more calm you become, and the less you feel the physiology of fear. how to increase our testosterone? eat more foods high in cholesterol (fatty meats is a steroid for testosterone). lift heavy weights (dumbbell or bodyweight exercises). challenge your body! there is no downside to having tons of muscle mass. there is no downside to having a low body fat percentage (around 10% for men, 20% for women). if your body produces the stress hormones for fear… then certainly strengthening your body will make you less fearful and less sensitive to fear hormones. 3. social fear porn fear is a social contagion. thus to conquer fear, we gotta be critical in terms of how fear is transmitted to us socially. generally fear comes from the media. social media, the news, family, friends, etc. other people. the way i think about fear is very practical: can this thing cause me permanent disfigurement or a likely death? if so, i fear it. if not, i don’t fear it. 4. is it a duty to be fearful? a weird thing: i’m guilted by others or pressured by others to feel fearful. i’m not fearful of this current pandemic, but others make me feel guilt for not being scared. so the ethical question is: *should* i feel scared and afraid when everyone else is? no. this is for suckers. 5. only care for yourself. perhaps the best way for us to conquer fear is to become extremely selfish, self-centered, and to only care for ourselves. conclusion enslave your fear; don’t become enslaved by your fear! eric stoicism by kim become invincible: how you can conquer fear you’re stronger than you think you are. expect the unexpected why aren’t things worse? my philosophy on masculinity a riskier life is a better life #philosophy #stoicism how to creatively flourish in life introduction to stoicism how to become stronger how to conquer depression with photography what doesn’t kill you makes you stronger how to respect yourself how to believe in yourself how to steer fear how to conquer pessimism how to conquer anxiety how to overcome your fear of people how to be optimistic why i don’t take my anger seriously how to become more powerful positivity. how to become superhuman how to give a fuck less all in. why i cut my dad out of my life. your iphone only has 5% battery left. how not to give a fuck about your reputation what is a human? happiness. the regret minimization framework in photography and life how to be a hero conquer your fears by making fear your slave rule circumstances; don’t let your circumstances rule you how to love yourself how to turn shit into gold your parents fuck you up immortality what kills you makes you stronger how to be patient how to conquer anger how to bounce back in life how to overcome resistance nothing unlimited is good; nothing good is unlimited you have no limits can 1’s and 0’s hurt you? the envious moment is flying now tomorrow we’ll sail the wide seas again how to forgive others focus on your actions, not the results everything will be alright how to be a stoic street photographer how to be a spartan photographer how to overcome your fears in life how to stop worrying in life how to use photography as self-therapy how to free your soul from disturbance 3 stoic techniques that can help you gain tranquility can people weaker than you hurt you? does a doctor get angry at a crazy patient? own nothing the stoic masters learn from the master stoics: seneca marcus aurelius epictetus publilius syrus heraclitus see all philosophy > henri neck strap (mark iii) shoot fearless > haptic industries creative tools to empower you. haptic industries on amazon > eric kim newsletter free motivation: email address eric kim workshops conquer your fears and meet new peers: april 25-26: chicago conquer composition workshop september 19-20: boston discover your unique voice in photography workshop (new date) november 4-8: havana, cuba travel street photography workshop experience – register intent join ars: the anti-social social media for photographers what do people really think about your photos? arsbeta.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta