call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact how much equity can be released from my home? the equity release process is a large undertaking and one that should only be made with much consideration. if you are currently thinking about unlocking equity within your home, it is important to know just how much you will be able to borrow. there are several factors that come into play regarding this, and a lender will factor in a number of elements, such as the kind of loan you want to take, and the amount of equity you are hoping to raise. your circumstances your age and the value of your property are also big influences on how much you can borrow. other factors that lenders will take into account include your health and lifestyle, as some health conditions could enable you to borrow more. your property another factor is whether you have paid off your mortgage. if you still have some of your mortgage to pay off, the maximum equity amount that you can apply for will be reduced by the amount of mortgage that you still have left to pay. one last factor is the type of property that you own and its present condition. if you have any questions whatsoever about any of the above, get in touch with one of our advisors today. frequently asked questions how does equity release work? equity release advice do i qualify? things to consider is equity release safe? what is equity release? alternatives to equity release call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.