menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: featured, relationships & family, social skills brett and kate mckay • march 16, 2018 last updated: march 24, 2020 how to make a great last impression studies show that people remember the beginning of something, and the end of it, the best. the middle of it is recalled a little more hazily. once a novel experience starts, your brain really starts focusing on what’s going on and quickly makes judgements about the new people you meet. and you clearly remember the last part of an experience, because it ends up being the freshest in your memory. given this phenomenon, people understandably spend a lot of time thinking about how to make a great first impression — which indeed has an outsized influence on how people see you, lasting for even months after you’ve gotten to know them. but the other part of the equation is frequently ignored, though it’s also important. you not only want to make a dynamite first impression, you want to make a great last impression too. as daniel pink, the author of when, told me in my podcast interview with him, the end of something “has a disproportionate effect on how we remember things”: “you see it anecdotally in something like yelp reviews. you want to kill 15 minutes, go on yelp, look at restaurant reviews, and you’ll see a disproportionate number of them evaluate the restaurant by what happened at the end of the meal, ‘they gave me a check and it was wrong, and they were jerks about it.’ ‘they gave me a free dessert, woo hoo.’ . . . so, i think it’s really important in our personal encounters and in our professional encounters that we’re conscious of endings, and try to get endings to end on a positive, not only on a positive note but in a way that elevates. human beings prefer endings that elevate, we prefer rising sequences to declining sequences, and being conscious and intentional about that can improve our interactions.” below are a few quick tips on how to improve the last impression you make in both business and social situations: gather your belongings in your left hand. when a job interview has come to a close, pick up things like your notebook or briefcase with your left hand; that will keep you from fumbling to free up your right hand when the interviewer reaches out to shake it. make physical contact twice before leaving. physical contact promotes bonding; even a handshake has been shown to increase rapport and make you more likable and memorable. so make contact not just once but twice as you leave. in a job interview or client meeting, shake hands with the other person as you stand up from the table or desk, and then again as you part ways at the door. give a good, warm, confident handshake; make sure your hands are dry (discreetly wiping/patting them on your pants before you stand up), that the web between your first two fingers connects with the web of theirs, and that your fingers are flat rather than cupped so that your hands touch palm-to-palm. in a social situation, shake hands or hug the other person as you announce your intention to leave, and then again when they say goodbye at the door. end with eye contact and a smile. both times you make physical contact, look the other person in the eye and smile. face them directly, rather than being at an angle, so you’re standing heart-to-heart. you’ll leave behind the impression of someone who’s open, straightforward, and warm. thank the person twice. as you make physical contact, look the other person in the eye, and smile, thank them for their time and or the event/evening you’ve spent together. as you stand up from a desk in an interview or other professional setting, say something like, “thank you so much for the opportunity. i really appreciate it.” then when you part at the door, say, “thank you again for the interview.” in a social situation, accompany your first thank you with an appreciation for something specific you enjoyed about the event; “thank you so much for having us over. that was the best pot roast i’ve ever had.” then at the door, just say, “thanks again for having us!” make sure you have all your belongings. if you make a great last impression, but then sheepishly have to come back through the door again apologizing and saying you left your phone somewhere, that memory will supplant the other to become your new last impression, and not a great one at that. move with intent. don’t stand there shifting your weight back and forth and saying, “well . . . so . . .” when you’re hesitant, awkwardness results. be friendly but firm with your goodbye; know exactly what you’re doing next, where you’re heading, and move confidently and deliberately in that direction. send a follow-up text/thank you note. sending an appreciative text or thank you note (depending on whether the event was more casual or formal, respectively) is a really nice touch, and extends and solidifies the warm memory people have formed of you in their minds. so after a date is done, text the gal to let her know again what a great time you had. after a nice dinner party, send a thank you note to the host about how much you enjoyed yourself and appreciate their hospitality. after a job interview, send a note to the interviewer thanking them for the opportunity. it’s such a simple thing to do, but will really set you apart from the pack. oftentimes, if we feel like an interaction isn’t going well, we just sort of turn off and shut down. but you shouldn’t give up — you can still improve the impression you’ve made! even when things seem to be going downhill, try to finish strong; the person you’re with will remember the good end of your interaction more than the muddling middle. related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// 18 at-home date ideas how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy