menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: featured, manly skills, outdoors, survival brett and kate mckay • april 18, 2018 last updated: march 24, 2020 how to escape and evade a tracker a few years ago we published an article on how to track a human in the wild. but what do you do if the shoe is on the other foot, and you’re the one being hunted? if for whatever reason you find yourself evading a band of marauding outlaws in some dystopian future, you’ll want to implement counter-tracking measures to evade them. even if you never end up being the one pursued (and i hope you never do because that means something has gone terribly wrong in your life), understanding counter-tracking measures will make you a better tracker as you’ll know what to look for in targets trying to evade your pursuit. you can run, but it’s really difficult to hide the ultimate goal of counter-tracking is to evade your enemy and get to safety. but understand that a talented tracker knows the counter-tracking measures you might use and will still likely be able to find you. in real life manhunts through the wilderness, the hunted is almost invariably found. if the fugitive is wily, it might take a few days longer before he’s captured, but he’ll ultimately be nabbed. exceptions exist, of course, like the clever hermit who managed to live in the maine woods, and commit 1,000 burglaries, while avoiding detection and the searches of law enforcement for almost 30 years. in general, though, the old saying is true, “you can run, but you can’t hide.” when you’re dealing with seasoned, dedicated trackers, counter-measures will at best probably only give you a little extra time on the lam. of course, you may not be pursued by expert trackers — marauding bands of baby-eating barbarians are often rank amateurs in this department. in which case the following counter-tracking measures may accomplish the goal of helping you make a clean getaway. they can be broken down into three main categories: leaving no trace, staying out of sight, and employing deception. 1. leave no (or as little) trace as possible in our article about tracking a human, we highlighted several indicators that trackers use to find their target. when you’re the one being pursued, you have to reverse-engineer them, so to speak; you have to know what not to leave behind to avoid tipping off the tracker to your trail. don’t leave detritus behind. if you’re escaping and evading, be extremely conscious of not leaving behind any discarded objects. food wrappers, clothing, and gum are just a few of the things a tracker will be looking for. be especially cognizant of unintentionally discarded items — sometimes when you pull your hands out of your pockets, stuff comes out with them. don’t leave your biological waste behind. trackers will also be looking for biological evidence of your presence, specifically blood, feces, and urine. if you’re bleeding, make sure you’re bandaged, so you don’t leave a trail. when you take a wiz or a dump, make sure to cover it up when you’re done. of course, covering up your waste creates evidence of a ground disturbance (more on that in a bit), which a seasoned tracker will be looking for, too. do your best to make your cat hole look as natural as possible. avoid “honeypots.” expert tracker john hurth calls soft, impressionable areas of ground that readily capture tracks “honeypots” because they leave so much information behind. mud, sand, soft dirt, and snow are examples of honeypots. long grass can also be a honeypot because the tracker will be able to see the trampled, bent grass that you walked through. avoid honeypots and do your best to stick to hard, rocky surfaces. if you’re escaping and evading in snow or in a sandy desert, avoiding honeypots will be difficult, but it is possible to minimize the trace you leave behind. if you’re evading on snow-covered ground, try to move only when new snow is actually falling from the sky. the falling snow plus the wind will erase your tracks. same thing for sandy environments. try to travel when the wind is blowing so that your tracks are blown away. avoid disturbing the environment. besides looking for footprints, a tracker will also be looking for disturbances in the environment. if you’re walking in a wooded area with lots of leaves or pine needles on the ground, you won’t leave much in terms of footprints, but if you’re not careful, you’ll still leave behind evidence in the form of snapped twigs and overturned leaves. besides disturbances on the ground, trackers will be looking for aerial disturbances like broken cobwebs and broken tree branches. if there’s a cobweb between trees, go under it or around it. as you pass by low-hanging tree limbs, try not to bend or break them. make sure clothing or other items don’t get hung up in tree branches. also avoid scuffing trees. keep a low auditory profile. trackers will not only be looking for visual indicators, but listening for auditory ones. so be as quiet as possible. move like a ninja. don’t be smelly. a tracker will use all of his senses, including his nose, to find you. the smell of smoke can lead trackers to you, so avoid making fires if possible. lotions, soaps, food, and body odor also give off scents that can reveal your presence. 2. stay out of sight besides being aware of the traces you leave behind, to successfully evade a pursuer you quite naturally don’t want them to see you! but here’s the rub: moving objects are easier to spot than stationary ones. so how do you keep moving without being seen? here are a few tips drawn from army field manual fm 21-76: survival, evasion, and recovery. camouflage yourself. unless you’re wearing camo, you’ll need to use your surroundings as a natural disguise. survival expert creek stewart gave a pretty detailed tutorial on how to do this a few years ago — you essentially plaster yourself with mud and leaves. keep in mind that when you collect materials for your camouflage, you don’t want to get them all from the same location. that will just create a big disturbance in the environment, clearly indicating your trail. camouflaging is a bit trickier in snow and desert environments. you don’t have that much flora and fauna to use to conceal yourself. do your best with what you’ve got. move when visibility is lowest. if you don’t want your pursuers to see you, only move when visibility is low: nighttime, stormy weather, dust storms, snow storms, etc. avoid silhouetting. silhouetting occurs when you move in front of the skyline at night. there’s just enough light to create a silhouette of your profile, making you stick out like a sore thumb. to avoid silhouetting, stay off of ridges and the tops of hills. when you move, stay low to the ground, making sure there’s something in your background (like trees) besides the sky. use natural cover. as you move, stay close to natural cover like trees, shrubs, and bushes. this may require low crawling. as you stay close to natural cover, be cognizant of not disturbing things too much. first rule of evasion: don’t leave a trace! 3. deception practices no matter how much you work to hide your tracks, you’re still going to leave them. to evade your pursuers, you’ll need to implement some deception tactics to throw them off your trail. again, expert trackers know these deception techniques and will consequently be on the lookout for signs of them. while, at best, they’ll simply slow an expert pursuer down, they could throw an amateur entirely off your trail. walk backwards. a common deception tactic is to walk backwards. when you do so, the prints of your feet point in one direction, but you’re moving in the opposite direction. if it works, your pursuers will follow the route your toes point towards. the problem with this deception technique is that a good tracker can detect it by looking at your footprints: a shortened stride and a more pronounced and deeper imprint on the heel give the ruse away. they’ll also be looking for which direction gravel and dirt are being dragged in relation to the print. if you’re walking backwards, the dirt will be dragged in the direction you’re actually walking, not the direction you’re trying to make them think you’re walking. brush away your tracks. if you’re walking on ground that leaves footprints, you can brush them away as you walk to hide your trail. this could be done by rigging a piece of carpet or a leaf-covered branch around your waist, so it drags behind you, sweeping away your footprints as you walk. of course, this tactic can be noticed by a well-trained tracker. for example, they’ll likely notice the outline of the edges of the carpet that you’re dragging along. walking in a stream. running water will allow you to walk without leaving footprints, as the moving water will erase whatever prints you may leave in the stream or river bed. be aware that honeypots exist near stream beds. the mud that you’ll encounter as you enter and exit a stream will readily capture your tracks. doubling back. doubling back is when you walk and leave a trail in a general direction, but then walk backward over your track to a jump-off point. if all goes according to plan, your trackers will follow your initial line of tracks and bypass your jump-off point. unseasoned trackers will eventually realize you’ve doubled back when they reach the point where your prints suddenly stop. seasoned trackers will likely figure it out earlier by seeing the dirt that’s being pushed backward on your forward-facing prints, indicating that you’re walking backward on your tracks. the other issue with doubling back is that if you don’t walk perfectly backward over your footprints, you’ll just leave another set of prints behind. but the technique, done well, can buy you some extra time. as you can see above, evading a tracker is hard. damn hard. but with a bit of cleverness and a lot of luck, you just might be able to successfully escape and evade those who hunt the most dangerous game. ________________________ sources: combat tracking guide by john hurth tracking humans by david diaz fm 21-76-1: survival, evasion, and recovery related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// kid craft of the week: pencil catapult 10 tips for tackling your first major diy automotive repair cool uncle tricks: make a salt shaker disappear how to make a ladder from tubular webbing view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy