menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: featured, food & drink, manly skills, nutrition, outdoors patrick hutchison • january 17, 2019 last updated: march 11, 2020 how to make pine needle tea packed with antioxidants and vitamins a and c (in fact 4-5 times that of orange juice), sworn by as an immune booster and reliever of congestion, pine needle tea has been used for centuries as both a refreshing beverage and a medicinal drink. in the winter of 1536, the crew of french explorer jacques cartier was saved from a disastrous bout of scurvy by drinking this tea. later, cartier would describe the source of the tea as the “tree of life.” the yew tree (top) looks like a pine, but isn’t, and is toxic — beware its flat needles. the eastern white pine (bottom) is common, readily identifiable by the fact its needles grow in clusters of five, and makes for a tasty tea. thirty-six species of pine are common in north america, though not all are great candidates for pine needle tea. some species of pine like the ponderosa pine, as well as trees that look like pines, but actually aren’t, like the yew species and the norfolk island pine, are actually toxic to drink. but many others, including eastern white pine and noble fir (actually in the pine family) are delicious and safe to drink. make sure to do your homework on identifying the type of pine you’re harvesting before you start enjoying your tea! the type of needles you pick for your tea depends on your intention for drinking. older needles have higher concentrations of vitamin c, but taste more bitter. younger needles will make a sweeter, more pleasant tea for simple drinking. you can differentiate the age of needles by their color and placement on the branch. younger needles are typically brighter green in color, and are found at the very tips of branches. older needles are darker and are found at the base of branches. i used the needles of a douglas fir for my tea. gather a nice fresh branch, rinse it off to get rid of any bugs or dirt, and then pick the needles clean off the branch. if you’re working with long needles, like those of an eastern white pine, and will be steeping them in a small pot or mug, chop them up into smaller pieces. there’s no need to chop up smaller needles. bring three cups of water to a simmer, turn off or remove from heat (important), and add about half a cup of fresh needles to the water. never boil your pine needle tea. boiling tends to break down vitamin c and release terpenes that make the tea more bitter. if you want a stronger tea, simply add more needles rather than increasing the heat. let your pine needle tea steep for about 20 minutes, or until the needles sink to the bottom of your pot or cup. at this point, you can strain the needles out or leave them in while you drink. if you plan on storing your tea for later, remove the needles to prevent over-steeping. another method is to put your pine needles in a tea strainer, place the strainer into a mug, and pour hot water over it. let steep and then remove the strainer and enjoy. fresh pine needle tea, with a little extra for garnish. your finished tea will taste citrusy, a little resiny, and pretty pleasant. enjoy it straight if you’re in the wilds, or add a squeeze of lemon and/or a bit of honey to enhance the taste at home. related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// 10 tips for tackling your first major diy automotive repair cool uncle tricks: make a salt shaker disappear how to make a ladder from tubular webbing make this dark guinness bread for st. patrick’s day view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy