services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing bluleadz inbound marketing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply close services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply marketing sales service leadership hubspot subscribe subscribe to our blog stay up to date with the latest marketing, sales, and service tips. how an outsourced marketing team can keep sales and marketing aligned rob steffens | may 15, 2018 | 3 min read alignment is one concern that comes up again and again with outsourced digital marketing. brands want granular control over their messaging and campaigns – and leading stakeholders often worry that there’s no way to get it except to invest in a big, complex, and costly in-house organization. luckily, technology is changing all that. with help from the right outsourced partner, you can enjoy a seamless digital marketing experience every bit as robust, responsive, and transparent as it is to have a conventional team. in fact, in many cases, outsourcing will be better than hiring and training your own personnel to fit every niche. a well-chosen outsourced partner equips you with capabilities you’ve never had, enhancing your strengths. the outsourced team also comes ready with best practices built on a wealth of digital marketing and sales expertise. that would take years of trial and error to develop internally. one area a winning outsourced team should focus on is maintaining alignment with your full-time sales and marketing staff. your voice is essential to the strategic and creative elements of every initiative – while still ensuring day-to-day details are no longer a worry. one thing makes it all possible: collaboration. communication turns outsourced assets into a true extension of your strategy clear communication is key to any successful project. when outsourcing digital marketing, it’s even more crucial. your partner should work closely with you, anticipate your needs, course correct whenever necessary, and always furnish the right data to make informed decisions. at bluleadz, we’ve designed a collaboration strategy that empowers our clients. it includes: weekly calls in the digital world, things move fast – it’s critical that everyone be, and stay, on the same page. we make it easy through efficient, yet informative weekly calls. we cover wins, challenges to come, and action items that will help us keep up the pace. calls are optional, but they make a difference. continuous reporting even if you don’t have time to sit in on a call, it doesn’t mean you have to be in the dark. our team understands which metrics mean the most to you. we distill modern data wizardry down to clear and actionable reports so executives have relevant business intelligence at all times. the best project management while many digital marketing agencies rely on old-fashioned waterfall project management (or have no project management standards at all) bluleadz uses agile. it focuses on ensuring everyone, no matter their specialty, can produce excellent work with minimum “downtime.” strategic advice and alignment for years, our award-winning agency has been at the forefront when it comes to helping clients shift toward the inbound way of doing business. we’re intimately familiar with the challenges and rewards that come with inbound, so we can train and support your team every step of the way. a spirit of collaboration last, but not least, we truly value the power of collaboration: it makes certain that your unique imprint is on every piece of collateral and every marketing or sales outcome. you’ll always have instant access to a dedicated account manager for questions, concerns, or ideas. whether you’re looking for a taste of what inbound can do for you or planning to transform to a fully inbound-focused business model, bluleadz has unparalleled insight to help your sales and marketing teams succeed in the digital age. we strive to deliver clear roi, measurable results, and lessons learned that you can leverage for many years to come. it all begins with an eagerness to learn about your needs and a willingness to center your voice throughout every engagement. leave a comment rob steffens i am the director of marketing here at bluleadz. i'm a huge baseball fan (go yankees!). i love spending time with friends and getting some exercise on the racquetball court. more insights what is website accessibility? 13 guidelines you need to know 15 of the best business fonts to use for your logo 5 financial tech companies to look out for in 2020 subscribe to our blog & get notified on the latest trends that impact your business. no, i dont want to get your awesome content. close popup. services marketing design sales pricing company about us customer testimonials careers contact resources blog resources the inbound glossary are you lost? (866) 995-8720 3030 n. rocky point dr. w. suite 600 tampa, florida 33607 facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube messenger © 2020 bluleadz, all rights reserved. privacy policy.