wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to sell gift cards with wordpress and boost your revenue how to sell gift cards with wordpress and boost your revenue last updated on march 25th, 2020 by editorial staff 57 shares share tweet share pin do you want to sell gift cards on your website? selling gift cards for your store, service, or digital products is an easy way for businesses to boost revenue and improve cash flow. in this article, we’ll share three different ways that you can use to easily sell gift cards on your wordpress website, woocommerce store, and even social media platforms. why sell gift cards on your website? gift cards allow your customers to purchase store credits and give it away to friends and family as a gift. sometimes customers also purchase gift card credits to use on later purchases for themselves. smart business owners use gift cards to boost revenue and improve cash flow. some businesses even discount their store gift cards during times of natural disasters and crisis situations, so they can collect more upfront cash to sustain their business in tough times. whether you have a restaurant, coffee shop, spa salon, or digital products like membership sites and online courses, you can sell gift cards to increase sales even during economic downturns. that being said, let’s take a look at how you can easily sell gift cards on your website to increase sales and improve cashflow. we’ll be showing you three different methods: sell gift cards for your online store with woocommerce sell gift cards with simple gift card order forms sell gift cards on any web platform you can choose the method that best fits your need. 1. selling gift cards on your woocommerce store woocommerce is the most popular ecommerce platform in the world. millions of small and large businesses use woocommerce to create their online store. we have a step by step guide on how to create an online store for anyone who’s looking to get started. once your woocommerce store is setup, you’ll be ready to sell gift cards to your customer. for this method, we’ll be using the pw woocommerce gift cards plugin. it is one of the best woocommerce plugins on the market and allows you to easily sell gift cards on your store. the first thing you need to do is install and activate the pw woocommerce gift cards plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to visit products » add new page to create a gift card. first you need to provide a title for your gift card and add a description. next, you need to scroll down to the ‘product data’ section and select ‘pw gift card’ as your product type. below that, you need to enter the amounts customers can choose for their purchase. you can now set a product image (perhaps an image of a gift box as place holder), select product category, and save or publish your gift card. customers can now view the gift card product on your shop pages. on the gift card product page, they will be able to select the amount and provide the recipient’s email address with a short message. checking gift card balance and customize email to configure plugin settings, you need to visit pimwik plugins » pw gift cards page. from here, you can design the gift card email, check balance, and review plugin settings. if you are unable to send gift card emails, then make sure you follow the instructions in our guide on how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. 2. adding a gift card purchase form in wordpress some business owners simply don’t want to setup a complete online store with woocommerce just to sell gift cards. in that case, you’ll need a gift card purchase form. luckily, there is an easy way to create that in wordpress. tip: you need to create a wordpress website before you can use this method. for this method, we’ll be using wpforms. it is the best wordpress form builder plugin on the market used by over 3 million websites. you can use it to build an online gift card order form, and even accept payments using paypal and stripe (credit cards). first, you need to install and activate the wpforms plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to visit wpforms » settings page to enter your license key. you can find this information under your account on the wpforms website. next, you need to head over to the wpforms » addons page and install the form templates pack addon. now, you are ready to create your gift card order form. simply go to wpforms » add new page to launch the form builder. first, you need to provide a name for your form and then under ‘additional templates’ search for the gift card form. wpforms will now load your form with all the required fields. you can add new fields from the left column, edit or remove fields or move them up and down. if you want to accept credit card payments, then you may want to install either the paypal or stripe addon and add the payment fields to your form as well. once you are satisfied with the form, switch to the settings » confirmation tab. from here, you can set a form confirmation message. wpforms allows you to show a confirmation message, redirect users to a thank you page, or any other url. basically, you can use the confirmation page to inform users about using the gift card. after you have configured the confirmation setting, you can now save your form and exit the form builder. adding gift card form to your website the next step is to add your gift card order form to your website. wpforms makes it super easy to do that. simply edit the page where you want to add the gift card order form. on the edit screen, you need to add the wpforms block to the content editor and select the form you created earlier from the dropdown menu. wpforms will now load a live preview of your form. you can then save or publish your page to make your form live. 3. sell gift cards online on any website platform now if you’re looking for a complete platform that let’s you sell gift cards online, send gift cards to customers via email or by postal mail, and accept gift cards in-store using a mobile app or your pos terminal, then you need to look at gift up. it’s a gift card platform that works on any website including wordpress, and allows you to get paid straight away without any monthly or setup fee. they make money by charging a 3.49% fee for each gift card sold, but you can pass this fee on to customers if you prefer. note: during coronavirus (covid-19), they’re waiving their 3.49% fee on your first $5,000 of gift card sales. use this link to join. once you have signed up, you can easily create and customize the gift card design from their app platform. after that, you can either embed the code in your website, get a hosted link to your gift card checkout form on giftup site, and even share your gift card link on social media platforms. giftup integrates with all popular website builder platforms including wordpress. if you’re using wordpress, then you should use the gift up wordpress plugin which seamlessly integrates with woocommerce as well. here’s a preview of what the demo gift card checkout looks like: we hope this article helped you learn how to easily sell gift cards on your woocommerce store or wordpress website. you may also want to see our tips on how to increase your website traffic and must have wordpress plugins to grow your business. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 57 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to start your own podcast (step by step) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. comments congratulations, you have the opportunity to be the first commenter on this article. have a question or suggestion? please leave a comment to start the discussion. leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) bluehost coupon get over 63% off on bluehost packages and a free domain of your choice. dreamhost coupon get up to 63% off on dreamhost and get a free domain too. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.