start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising learning advertising published on march 25, 2020 how to use mind mapping in your everyday life leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email your brain retains a lot of information. all of this information is inter-connected to make sense. without these links, the information would be jumbled and confused. in other words, your mind creates maps that function just like geographical maps — one location leads to another. there may be multiple routes to the same destination as well. the technique of mind mapping can be used for effective learning from birth to death! find out more about mind mapping, its remarkable advantages, and how to implement it in your day to day learning in this article. table of contents what is mind mapping? 5 elements of a mind map what the elements represent benefits of mind mapping how to use mind mapping to learn new skills final thoughts more tips on mind mapping what is mind mapping? mind mapping is a simple concept whereby you create a map or flowchart to better process information. it is the implementation of how the brain processes information to encourage creativity.[1] mind maps don’t necessarily have to be physically written or drawn. sometimes, a mind map can be imaginary, too. the latter is more convenient for compact ideas and will be more suitable once you get the hang of creating mind maps. to understand the concept of mind mapping, you should picture this scenario: many times, you have so much information at hand that is so closely connected that it seems almost impossible to comprehend. for example, you’re at a music class. the instrumental chords of a guitar and piano are so similar yet completely different at the same time. how can you possibly organize this information as a beginner? the best way is to create a mind map. all the elements of a mind map will help you connect the information in a way that will make it easier to absorb. 5 elements of a mind map you can personalize your preferred mind mapping technique according to what suits you best. advertising however, a mind map usually has 5 main elements. this isn’t a hard and fast rule, but an effective mind map is usually based on the following 5 parts: a central image branches or relationship arrows keywords or images sub-themes nodal structure some people like to further categorize the themes and topics to create up to 10 components. it is an extension of the sub-themes. but once again, how you choose to mind map is totally your personal preference. what the elements represent each element is important as part of the whole. here is an explanation of each of the parts. a central image the central image is the main theme or topic. therefore, the central image is whatever the information is ultimately connected to. it can be as broad or narrow as you like. carrying on with the example of learning a musical instrument, the theme is instruments or music. branches the next component is branches. each idea you write down must have some sort of connection with at least one other part of the mind map. you cannot include any idea that doesn’t link up. therefore, all the ideas in the mind map must be connected with branches or relationship arrows. keywords or images there are keywords or images. certain ideas and information include a lot of detail. you cannot write it all down in a mind map. mind mapping has to be compact and precise in order to lead to effective results.[2] if the idea is too elaborate to be expressed in a couple of words, you can either use an image or multiple connective keywords in its place. in the case of digital mind maps, images work very well. advertising sub-themes the sub-themes are the narrower topics that fall under the bigger umbrella theme. for the same example of musical instruments, the sub-themes include guitar, piano, specific chords, etc. there are usually numerous sub-themes in a mind map. nodal structure mind mapping is based on a nodal structure where sub-themes are explained and everything is linked. certain ideas are broad and cover other compact concepts as well. the whole idea of mind mapping is incomplete without this structure. benefits of mind mapping now you know what mind mapping is and are probably convinced that it is an excellent approach to learning. but what is in it for you to use this method? well, the benefits of mind mapping are tremendous. here’s a quick rundown: easy organization right off the bat, there is no better way to organize information than with a mind map. no matter how confused you feel, a mind map will put everything in its right place. organized information is easier to remember. the visual representation of every connection imprints on your mind. no matter how stressed you are, once you begin to organize all the ideas in a mind map, everything starts to make sense. once that happens, there’s nothing left to worry about! brainstorming mind maps are a process. from one keyword to the other, from one image to the next, the connections trigger the brain to bring other related links to the surface, too. this technique will help you brainstorm like no other. mind mapping is a very engaging learning process. therefore, the brain is fully involved and focused. this encourages new ideas and concepts so that the learning process goes beyond the information at hand. the magic in mind mapping is that all sorts of complex information also seem easy to understand. with brainstorming, these ideas are further built upon. advertising here’s an example to give you a clearer picture: you’re learning a foreign language. in your mind map, you can link the foreign words with images or keywords of the language you know. within this map, you can brainstorm to figure out certain common elements that will help you remember the foreign words easily. these elements may be prefixes or suffixes. or, there may be a specific trick that you can put your finger on once all similar words are linked up. while it is extremely easy to do in a mind map, it is almost impossible to identify these things in other learning methods. the bottom line is that with mind mapping, the learning process becomes a continuous cycle of learning progress. guaranteed results as mentioned previously, mind mapping is the implementation of the process of the way that the brain actually works. using the creation of links like that in a map, the brain can remember knowledge for the long-term. since mind mapping supports this mental process, there is no chance that you won’t successfully learn what you want to. basically, you will understand and remember whatever you want. there is literally nothing in the world that you won’t be able to excel at once you become a master of mind mapping! saving time this method is not time-saving in the sense that you’re probably thinking of. creating a mind map, organizing all the information, and then fitting in new ideas may take up a decent chunk of your time. however, since the learning is guaranteed in one go, you won’t have to spend time on the same theme again and again. how to use mind mapping to learn new skills mind maps are a tool that can be used every day. use them to create an extensive to-do list or let the technique help you learn new skills. for example, let’s assume you’re a social media content creator. you want to create more engaging content. start creating a mind map that is centered on themes for your posts. you can include topics that you’ve already covered as well as ones you plan on posting about. advertising then, include the feedback that you received on your previous posts. link it up to suggested improvements or continued strategies so that the new posts can perform better. there is no rocket science in using a mind map effectively. you can categorize the process in 3 steps of mind mapping. once you begin, you’ll quickly get the hang of it. helpful tools mind maps can be made in numerous ways. some people find it way easier to work with a pen and paper, whereas others prefer a digitized version. each method has its pros and cons. digital mind maps can be edited and altered very easily. it’s more convenient to add images. also, the digital mind maps are more organized and neat. on the other hand, using a pen and paper lets the individual’s brain go in a flow. scribbling the thoughts on a paper encourages the brain to find more relevant connections. the best way to get use out of both methods is to create a rough version on a paper and then shift it to a digital platform. or, you can use a software or mind mapping application from the get-go. some of the best mind mapping tools available for free are: ms word canva mindmup free mind you can find more options here. final thoughts you don’t ever have to feel stuck again. going through a creative block or failing to learn new things in life? mind mapping is the ultimate solution to get your brain back on track! more tips on mind mapping how to use a mind map to organize your life be more productive using a mind map as a task list 7 reasons why people who draw mind maps are more hireable featured photo credit: alvaro reyes via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ science direct: problem analysis and thinking tools: an empirical study of non-hierarchical mind mapping [2] ^ the university of adelaide: mind mapping share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to organize information and tidy up your thoughts 7 reasons why people who draw mind maps are more hireable 17 best learning apps to help you learn faster advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in learning 1 how to learn quickly and master any skill you want 2 how to think critically: 5 powerful techniques 3 10 tips to improve your learning curve 4 12 learning goals for personal growth and self development 5 how to use mind mapping in your everyday life more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it trending in learning 1 how to learn quickly and master any skill you want 2 how to think critically: 5 powerful techniques 3 10 tips to improve your learning curve 4 12 learning goals for personal growth and self development 5 how to use mind mapping in your everyday life read next 13 life-changing skills to learn in 2020 (cheatsheet) 7 best language learning apps and websites what’s the easiest language to learn for english speakers? 6 common types of learners (with learning hacks for each) advertising advertising learning advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to learn quickly and master any skill you want leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email have you ever heard of the idiom ‘practice makes perfect’? i’m pretty sure someone would have said that to you at least once in your life! it’s a common saying, often used to encourage someone when they’re learning or doing something that is new to them. they may need many tries before succeeding and getting it right. it’s like learning to ride a bicycle, learning how to drive, taking up a second language, or cooking for the first time. it’s rare for anyone to ace it on their first try. whenever you want to start learning something new, i’m sure you’re always hoping to get good at it quickly. but the reality is, that sometimes it does take days, months or even years before you can confidently master a skill. that’s simply how learning works. you try, you gain experience, you learn from it, and you try again. and each time, you’re improving and making progress. every time you repeat this learning process, you’re going through something called a feedback loop. you’ll have to go through multiple feedback loops before confidently executing the skill. what separates a fast learner from a slower learner is not some innate, natural talent. instead, it’s because the fast learner understands how they learn, and has a systematic way to apply it all the time to learn a variety of things. they know how to effectively use their feedback loop to speed up the learning process. so the good news for you, is that if you’re currently wanting to learn a new skill as quickly as possible, then you just need to learn how to create an effective feedback loop. what is a feedback loop? when we talk about feedback, it simple means getting information about how well you’re performing each time you make an attempt at practicing or applying a skill. feedback is what tells you what went wrong, or what went right. advertising a feedback loop is made up of 3 stages: practice / apply – this is the stage where you put what you want to learn into action. measure – this is the stage where you’re acquiring information about your performance. this is also the stage that is most ignored… or done ineffectively. learn – this is the stage where you analyze how well you performed, and make adjustments to improve and practice/apply again. it’s important to recognize these 3 stages and put them into place each time you practice a new skill. many people only have stage 1 completed, and a very unclear or fuzzy process for stage 2, which leads to poor results in stage 3. a good, smooth cycle will help you continuously make improvements with each loop, creating steady progress and upgrading your understanding of the skill. how to have an effective feedback loop to make sure your feedback loop is effective, you will have to look at 3 key factors: consistency, speed, and accuracy. 1. be consistent being consistent means having a regular way to get the same quality of feedback. you need to be able to compare every practice or learning experience in order to measure, learn and make adjustments. if your feedback is not consistent, then you’re going to have a hard time knowing what went wrong or what went right. for example, say you’re learning to play the guitar. if you play a different song every time you practice, you’re going to get very inconsistent feedback. because the difficulty, rhythm, and pace of every song is different, you won’t have a reliable way to compare how well you played the current song versus the last. so, the best way to learn would be to play the same song over and over again until you get to a certain proficiency. advertising seems obvious in this case, but it’s just an example. a lot of times learning is hard because we don’t focus on keeping with a consistent environment or actions. 2. be quick let’s move on to the second factor: speed. having speedy or fast feedback is important because the longer it takes to get feedback, the longer it will take to improve on the skill. that’s why some people spend a tremendous amount of time practicing, but make very slow progress. on the other hand, the best forms of feedback are almost instantaneous. the shorter the time it takes for one feedback loop to complete, the better. this is because you’ll have more attempts, which means more improvements within the same timespan. so, the key to getting fast feedback is to take the skill or knowledge and break it down. try to breakdown the skill into different components. they could be broken down into steps, subskills or processes, or even by difficulty. for example, if the skill you want to learn involves a sequence (ie: there is a step by step process), you can break your learning down by each step. create a feedback loop for each step individually instead of the whole process. isolate the processes into different parts that you can focus and work on individually. let’s say you’re learning to cook. you can break this skill into steps, such as finding fresh and suitable ingredients, preparing and handling the ingredients, preparing condiments and sauces, serving and plating, etc. or let’s say you’d like to learn how to play soccer. you can identify the sub-skills that make up the larger learning techniques to playing soccer, and create feedback loops for each of them individually. so you could start by learning how to dribble the ball, followed by passing, and then shooting. advertising the third and final factor to an effective feedback loop, is accuracy. this means having feedback that actually reflects your performance accurately. since you’re relying on feedback to tell you what and where to improve on the next time, this is very important. this is why measuring feedback is a key skill to have for an effective feedback loop. 3. be accurate obtaining accuracy in feedback becomes a common weak point for many learners, because it’s not always easy to define what “accuracy” means. to get accurate feedback, we have to have a way of measuring it. the reason why we sometimes get poor feedback is because we’re trying to measure our progress without quantifying our performance. or, we’re using the wrong metrics to quantify the feedback. worse yet, it might just be that you were never measuring or recording your performance at all! can you recall yourself being in a similar situation? in order to find areas for improvement, you have to be able to compare your current performance with your previous performance. this is so that you have a baseline, or something to measure up against, to look for room for improvements. quantifying is a way to accurately measure your performance. quantifying something means attaching a number to it. this helps to give objectivity and consistency when comparing two things. quantifying feedback can give you constructive information that will help you improve during each cycle of the feedback loop. let’s say you’re practicing how to dribble a basketball. the first time you dribble, your coach tells you you’re doing a good job. the second time round, you get better and your coach affirms you by saying you’ve done a great job! sure, your dribbling skill has improved–you know it, your coach knows it, but by how much? and how can you further improve your dribbling skills? a good job versus a great job doesn’t indicate how well you’ve performed, and how much better you can perform. but, now in the second scenario, if you manage to dribble the basketball up and down the court 4 times continuously without letting the ball slip, your coach tells you you’ve done a good job. in the second round, your coach now tells you to dribble the basketball up and down the court 8 times continuously without letting the ball slip. you managed to do that and your coach tells you great job! you can now quantify your improvement by the number of times you were able to dribble the basketball across the court. advertising with a quantity attached to your performance, you’re now able to push yourself further by learning to dribble 16 times or more across the basketball court. you can even add in new obstacles like having to dribble across the court with an opponent trying to snatch your basketball. if you’re successful, you can try dribbling across the court with 2 opponents snatching your basketball, so on and so forth. you’re now able to easily quantify your improvement. continuously improve your feedback loop! so now that you’re familiar with the feedback loop, are you ready to put it into practice? what’s a new skill that you’d like to start on? try implementing every stage of the feedback loop when learning this new skill and see for yourself, whether your learning improves at a quicker rate. it is essential to continuously improve your feedback loop in order to keep up your momentum, and avoid running into the law of diminishing returns. improving your feedback loop means knowing what to measure next, and what questions to ask, to find out. in fact, the technique you’ve learned from this article is only part of our learning course. if you’d like to discover more gems that will help you speed up your learning and push yourself towards the goals that you’ve been striving for, check out our learn anything fast course. or you can find out more learning tips in these articles: 8 ways to train your brain to learn faster and remember more how to use observational learning to learn effectively 5 hacks to speed up the learning process featured photo credit: adeolu eletu via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to learn faster with a feedback loop how to use observational learning to learn effectively 17 best learning apps to help you learn faster advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in learning 1 how to learn quickly and master any skill you want 2 how to think critically: 5 powerful techniques 3 10 tips to improve your learning curve 4 12 learning goals for personal growth and self development 5 how to use mind mapping in your everyday life read next 13 life-changing skills to learn in 2020 (cheatsheet) 7 best language learning apps and websites what’s the easiest language to learn for english speakers? 6 common types of learners (with learning hacks for each) about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.