wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to use the seo writing assistant in wordpress to improve seo how to use the seo writing assistant in wordpress to improve seo last updated on august 12th, 2019 by editorial staff 193 shares share tweet share pin many of our readers ask us about how to write better content for seo? some ask whether they should focus on yoast seo green light or not? well when it comes to seo content optimization, we don’t focus on yoast seo’s score. instead we use a different seo writing assistant. this helps us optimize our content for seo, so we can rank higher in search engines. in this article, we will show you how to use the seo writing assistant in wordpress to improve seo and create better content on your website. what is seo writing assistant? seo writing assistant is a content optimization tool created by semrush, one of the best seo tools on the market. it allows you to check your content in real-time for seo suggestions and improve the overall seo score of your content. here is how it works. enter your focus keywords to generate content templates based on the top-10 results for that phrase instantly get semantically related keywords to include in your article improve your content with readability score based on rival results optimize your article headline for seo adjust article length based on average length of top results check for plagiarism without leaving your website check content tone to make it sound more natural and casual it is an extremely useful tool and can help you improve the seo as well as writing style across your website. if you manage a multi-author site, then it allows authors to follow the same seo best practices across all content. having said that, now let’s take a look at how to use the seo writing assistant to improve seo and get more search traffic to your website. setting up semrush’s seo writing assistant in wordpress first thing you need to do is visit the semrush seo writing assistant website and click on ‘create new template’ button. you will be now asked to login or register for a free account. semrush offers a basic free account with just 1 free content recommendation. you will need to sign up or upgrade for a paid semrush subscription to get all features (this is totally worth it). next, you’ll be asked to provide an email address and enter a password. after that, you will see a screen where you can enter the focus keywords to create an seo template. your focus keyword is basically the keyword you’d like to rank #1 for with this particular blog post or page. once you enter the focus keyword, semrush will generate your seo content template. you can also do this right inside your wordpress dashboard. you simply need to connect the seo writing assistant tool to your wordpress site. first, you’ll need to install and activate the semrush seo writing assistant plugin on your wordpress site. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to edit an article that you want to optimize for seo. on the post edit screen, scroll down and you’ll see the new semrush seo writing assistant section below the content editor. it will show you basic readability and seo score. to get the full picture, you need to click on the login button and sign in to your semrush account. once signed in, you’ll be asked to give permission. click on the ‘approve’ button to continue. now that you have connected the plugin to your semrush account, let’s generate seo recommendations for our article. if you had entered the focus keywords before, then you’ll see them listed as suggestions. otherwise, click on the ‘create new recommendations’ button to continue. simply enter the focus keywords and click on the ‘get recommendations’ button. need help finding the right keywords? see our beginner’s guide on how to do keyword research for your wordpress site. semrush will now check the top 10 results for the given keywords to generate a list of semantically related keywords to include in your content. keywords already included in your article will appear with a green background. you can go ahead and start adding missing keywords in your existing content where applicable or expanding your content to add new sections when necessary. as you write, the tool will also adjust the readability and article length scores to match the average scores of top results. checking tone of voice using semrush seo writing assistant all seo experts and marketers advise using a casual tone for all your articles. search engines consider this conversational tone to be more engaging and useful for most audiences. now the problem is that sometimes it becomes harder to maintain a casual tone throughout the article. seo writing assistant comes with a tone of voice checker. this ai-powered tool checks your content’s tone and give it a score randing from formal to casual. most articles fall somewhere in between, so don’t worry if it says your article has a neutral tone. checking for internal links links play a crucial role in seo and the seo writing assistant helps you keep track of links inside your article. it will remind you if your article does not have an optimal number of internal links. it will also check for external links and links to your homepage. this tool comes in handy if you have other authors working on articles. editors can quickly see if the article includes internal links to other posts on your website. checking plagiarism in wordpress with seo writing assistant if you are hiring writers to contribute articles on your blog, then you’ll need to make sure that the articles they are submitting are original content. normally, editors and website owners use plagiarism checkers like grammarly or google to see if an article is original. seo writing assistant makes this easier with a built-in plagiarism checker tool. the downside is that even with the paid plans, you can only perform a limited number of checks. if you need more, then you can buy additional checks from your subscription page on semrush dashboard. getting a perfect seo score for your article as you implement suggestions provided by the seo writing assistant tool, your overall score will improve as well. the overall score bar takes into account all the parameters and suggestions shown by the plugin. you need to make sure that this bar turns green for a better seo rankings. sometimes the plugin may suggest lsi keywords that may not fit in your content. you can safely ignore them instead of stuffing them into your article. remember that while these seo tools provide recommendations, you know your audience better than these tools . keep your users in mind and make sure that they find your content useful and engaging. tracking your seo performance in wordpress once you have started using seo writing assistant for a while, you may want to track how it is affecting your website’s positions in search. we have detailed guide on how to track your website’s keyword rankings with semrush and other tools. you may also want to keep an eye on your top content using google analytics. the best way to do this is by using monsterinsights. it brings your google analytics reports in wordpress and displays them in a human-readable format. we hope this article helped you learn how to use seo writing assistant in wordpress to improve seo. you may also want to see our complete wordpress seo guide with step by step instructions for beginners. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 193 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 12 commentsleave a reply kalyon subbarao says: aug 23, 2019 at 3:23 pm nice idea this was very essential plugin/tool for any blogger or online publishers, reply wpbeginner support says: aug 23, 2019 at 3:49 pm thank you, glad you like our article reply caden o'rourke says: aug 13, 2019 at 12:28 pm what do you believe is the best free seo plugin? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 14, 2019 at 10:39 am for the moment we are using and recommending yoast seo reply the 'staunch says: aug 13, 2019 at 5:01 am this plugin is awesome! does it work with rankmath seo plugin? and can it also work with trial accounts? reply editorial staff says: aug 13, 2019 at 10:23 am yes it works with rank math and all other seo plugin. the free trial is limited. reply john harris says: aug 13, 2019 at 2:30 am i have yoast premium at the moment. should i delete this plugin and use this one instead or have the two running side by side. also what wordpress theme do you guys use? reply editorial staff says: aug 13, 2019 at 10:24 am no you need to keep yoast for meta title and other on page optimizations. but we wouldn’t recommend focusing too much on the green light in yoast and rather focus on the seo writing assistant by semrush. yoast seo and seo writing assistant by semrush are meant to work alongside each other reply john conroy says: aug 12, 2019 at 9:09 am how much does it cost. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 12, 2019 at 11:01 am there is a free version for you to test and if you need more recommendations you would look at their subscriptions reply catherine rochereul says: aug 12, 2019 at 8:32 am does this tool have language options? like french for example? and if yes, is it as efficient as in english? just had a bad experience with hiring a seo agency that poorly translated existing english articles into french, placing keywords randomly. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 12, 2019 at 10:59 am sadly you would need to check with semrush for languages currently supported with this tool. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) nextiva coupon get the lowest possible price on the best voip and business phone service. seedprod coupon get 20% off on seedprod coming soon page plugin for wordpress. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.