 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog how to start a travel blog the beginner’s guide for 2020 written by anya skrba updated: february 09, 2020 if you want to become a travel blogger and start your own blog, you will have to make a couple of steps before you can get everything ready. these are not complicated things, but still, you need to know what is a blog, what you are doing and make everything right to start your blogging career properly. this guide will help you go through these steps smoothly while also pointing out important things you need to know about being a travel blogger. we will talk about the important things you need to know to run that blog properly. have no worries, it’s not difficult to start your own travel blog, but you need to have the right mindset and put in the necessary work. contribution from expert travel bloggers most famous travel bloggers have contributed their knowledge to help make this guide a valuable source of information for new bloggers. their contributions to this guide will help you choose the right blogging platform, types of content you should create and ways to promote and make money out of your travel blog. click on any blogger to see what they’ve suggested to be their most important tips when starting a new travel blog. adam nutting annette white ashley abroad audrey & daniel becky moore adam nutting hikingthetrail.com hikingthetrail.com began as an online journal chronicling adam nutting’s preparation for and hiking of the appalachian trail in 2013. 200 miles in, that adventure was sidelined but the journal lived on. since then adam has used hiking the trail to share his outdoor life through trip reports, travel, gear reviews, tips, and much more. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, product reviews q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, twitter, guest blogging and forums q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, private ads/sponsors, affiliate programs annette white bucketlistjourney.net i’m annette, the author of bucket list adventures, co-owner of sugo trattoria, a serial adventurer and creator of the award winning travel and lifestyle blog, bucket list journey. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, product reviews q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, seo, email lists q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, affiliate programs, sell merchandise products ashley abroad ashleyabroad.com i run a travel blog that centers around food, local experiences, and language learning. my blog has been featured in buzzfeed, tripadvisor, forbes.com, and other media outlets. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, ebooks q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, pinterest , instagram q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, affiliate programs, sell digital products audrey & daniel uncorneredmarket.com audrey scott and daniel noll are the husband-and-wife storytelling team behind the award-winning travel blog, uncornered market. driven by curiosity, guided by respect. they have been connecting the world through people, food & adventure for over 10 years and have traveled to over 90 countries. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, ebooks, free resources q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, pinterest , seo q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, affiliate programs, sell digital products becky moore globalgrasshopper.com hi i’m becky, a semi nomadic traveller but otherwise the uk-based owner of global grasshopper €“ an award winning blog and resource for independent travellers. i recently been a finalist in the british canada travel awards, the vuelio best blog awards and ranked as no.3 travel authority in the uk. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, product reviews q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, twitter, instagram q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: private ads/sponsors , cpm ads, affiliate programs bram reusen cacinda maloney cam wears charlie marchant cherie ve ard bram reusen travel-experience-live.com bram reusen is an adventure travel blogger and photographer who’s on a mission to visit all national parks in the usa. he’s spent three months biking to the north cape and back, and has hiked all over the world. he runs on coffee in the morning and craft in the evening. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, ebooks, photo essays q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, twitter, pinterest , linkedin, seo q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: private ads/sponsors , affiliate programs , sell digital products cacinda maloney pointsandtravel.com i am an experienced luxury travel writer, photographer, and blogger. i am a life-long learner and have been traveling every 6 weeks of my life for over 25 years as a lifestyle choice. i now travel even more than that, making it to 47 countries in 2016, 20 countries in 2017. i am always searching for soft adventure, culture, and smart luxury travel experiences. oh yeah, i was a physician in my previous life, having given it all up to travel the world! q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, infographics, free resources q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: guest blogging and forums, seo, email lists q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, affiliate programs, sell your services cam wears travelingcanucks.com we are cam & nicole wears, a canadian couple with two young boys, who choose to make travel a priority. it is possible to build a career and family and travel the globe and follow your passions. recognized as best canadian travel blog in 2015. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, product reviews q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, twitter, pinterest , instagram q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: private ads/sponsors , affiliate programs , review products charlie marchant charlieontravel.com i’m charlie, a green travel blogger who loves eco-friendly travel, community-based tourism projects, staying with locals and eating local food wherever i go. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, product reviews, tutorials q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: instagram , guest blogging and forums, seo q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: affiliate programs , sell your services , review products cherie ve ard technomadia.com on the road full time since 2006, working remotely the entire time. technomadia.com is focused exclusively on being our personal travel blog – but it has been a great launching platform for gaining authenticity for the products we’ve created within the nomadic community (including www.mobileinternetinf.com – tracking mobile internet options, and our travel apps). q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, free resources q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, youtube , being active in forums/groups and other social media venues and authentically helping folks. q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: affiliate programs , sell digital products , donations , continuity programs/subscriptions , patreon chris walker-bush clelia mattana debra corbeil ed rex janice waugh chris walker-bush aussieontheroad.com i’ve made a point of collaborating with high profile brands such as yahoo, national tourism boards, emirates etc. it’s all about generating great content that meets the needs of the brand. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, ebooks, podcasts q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, pinterest , instagram q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: private ads/sponsors , affiliate programs , sell your services clelia mattana keepcalmandtravel.com clelia is an italian full time travel blogger since 2012. she is an adventure and sea lover and her blog and her story have been featured on national geographic, business insider, yahoo finance, tripadvisor and many other online publications. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, tutorials q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: pinterest , seo, email lists q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, affiliate programs, sell your services debra corbeil theplanetd.com deb and dave founded theplanetd in 2008. forbes named the planet d one of the top 10 travel influencers in the world. they’ve won numerous awards including back-to-back gold medals for best travel blog at both the society of american travel writers and the north american travel journalists association. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, webinars q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: pinterest , youtube , rss, seo q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: private ads/sponsors , cpm ads, affiliate programs , sell merchandise products ed rex rexyedventures.com rexy edventures is a travel blog, set up in october 2011, chronicling the: €˜adventures of a deaf and handsome luxury backpacker travelling the unexpected.’ ed gives you travel inspiration ideas, reviews, travel tips, adventure stories, luxury budget secrets and destination guides to your eyes only…with handsome pictures! q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, free resources q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: twitter, linkedin, email lists q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: private ads/sponsors , affiliate programs , review products janice waugh solotravelerworld.com solo traveler is where people who share a passion or desire for traveling alone go for tips, advice, and encouragement. founded in 2009, it currently enjoys a monthly readership of over 135,000 monthly and a facebook community called the solo travel society with more than 230,000 avid travelers. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, tutorials q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, seo, email lists q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: private ads/sponsors , affiliate programs , sell digital products joao leitao jonny blair josh bender kirsten alana lauren juliff joao leitao joaoleitao.com just a normal guy that travels the world since 1999. i blog about my experiences and in order to motivate others to hit the road. more than 130 countries and 7 continents. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, tutorials q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, pinterest , seo q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, private ads/sponsors, affiliate programs jonny blair dontstopliving.net jonny blair is a northern irish nomad on tour. though he is mostly based in poland, he is always ready for a new adventure. having backpacked a long time for the best part of a decade, jonny’s niche lies in unusual places that nobody else has heard of or been to. think adammia, kokoszkowy, podjistan and nukus rather than shangkok, sydbourne or los york. jonny is strongly opposed to following trends, people who lie and fake travel blogs. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, free resources, visa and travel advice q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: twitter, instagram , seo q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: sell your services , review products , writing, sponsored posts, links josh bender travelwithbender.com josh is the powerhouse behind award-winning travel blog, travel with bender. his extensive entrepreneurial experience combined with a passion for photography and online marketing has been recognized with many industry awards along with features in forbes, bloomberg, lonely planet, yahoo, matador, national tv news, australian associated press, and numerous other prominent publications and magazines. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, tutorials q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, pinterest , email lists q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, affiliate programs , review products kirsten alana kirstenalana.com kirsten alana is full-time travel photographer with an engaged audience of more than 270k who has worked in more than 50 countries and on six continents for some of the most awarded campaigns in digital and social media. her portfolio of clients has included brands in travel, fashion, and lifestyle ranging from four seasons and spg to ted baker and amarula. her expertise in mobile photography, photography and social media has led her to speak at conferences around the globe. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: ghost.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, product reviews, podcasts, free resources q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, twitter, google+, pinterest , youtube , instagram , linkedin, rss, blog directories , seo, email lists q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: private ads/sponsors , sell digital products , sell merchandise products lauren juliff neverendingfootsteps.com lauren juliff is a full-time traveller, author of the memoir how not to travel the world, and blogger over at never ending footsteps. she’s been to over 80 countries across five continents, but is still looking for a place to call home. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, case studies, product reviews q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, twitter, pinterest q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, affiliate programs, sell digital products manouk bob matthew karsten nienke krook nora dunn paul johnson manouk bob bunchofbackpackers.com manouk bob is the founder and editor of bunch of backpackers, a popular dutch-english adventure travel blog. she is an expert on off-the-beaten path adventure, backpacking and solo travel. in daily life, she works as a medical doctor, but as you may have already guessed she still has not found a cure for her travel bug! q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, free resources q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, twitter, instagram q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: private ads/sponsors , affiliate programs , sell your services matthew karsten expertvagabond.com professional full time travel blogger for the last 8 years. featured by cnn, the new york times, and the bbc. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, free resources q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, pinterest , seo q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, affiliate programs , sell digital products nienke krook thetraveltester.com nienke has been blogging since her first solo world trip in 2006 and has since become a full-time blogger and social media manager, with an expertise in pinterest. she runs two websites (the travel tester & the london tester) and is an ambassador for the space media & experiences company space nation. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, product reviews q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: pinterest , guest blogging and forums, seo q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, affiliate programs , sell digital products nora dunn theprofessionalhobo.com nora dunn is the professional hobo; a former financial planner who has been traveling full-time since 2007. she is the leading expert on how to travel full-time in a financially sustainable way. among other books, she wrote how to get free accommodation around the world q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, case studies q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, twitter, email list q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, affiliate programs, sell digital products paul johnson aluxurytravelblog.com winner of ‘best travel blog’ in the travelmole web awards. winner of ‘best luxury travel blog’ in the paltino luxury travel awards. winner of the innovations in travel ‘best travel influencer’ award from wired magazine. voted “one of the world’s best travel blogs” and “best for luxury” by the daily telegraph. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, product reviews q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, twitter, seo q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, private ads/sponsors, sponsored posts raymond walsh sabina trojanova sai karthik reddy mekala sarah-jane begonja tiffany soukup raymond walsh manonthelam.com hailing from newfoundland, canada, raymond walsh started blogging in 2011 and concentrates on the notably weird, and the weirdly notable. his work has appeared on usa today travel, cnn, and the daily mail among others. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, tutorials q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, twitter, pinterest q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: private ads/sponsors , affiliate programs , sell your services sabina trojanova girlvsglobe.com sabina trojanova is the founder of ‘girl vs globe’ – responsible travel and sustainable lifestyle blog. her stories aim to inspire and empower women, focusing on the intersection between gender and the environment. sabina has been featured in publications like lonely planet, huffington post and matador network. aged 24 she has visited more than forty countries, lived in five and is fluent in four languages. when she is not traveling she is most likely trying new vegan recipes she learned on her journeys, working on her dystopian novel or dreaming of adopting a rescue dog. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, free resources q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, youtube , instagram q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: affiliate programs , sell digital products , sell merchandise products sai karthik reddy mekala romancingtheplanet.com sai one of india’s well known travel bloggers and his blog has been paying all his travel bills for the past 5 years. sai has written for many well known travel magazines, both online and print. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, product reviews, tutorials q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, twitter, google+ q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, private ads/sponsors, affiliate programs sarah-jane begonja chasingthedonkey.com an australian expat living in croatia, sj blogs her travels, and also about navigating a new language & shares honest stories & recipes while making croatia home. q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: wordpress.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, product reviews, free resources q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: facebook, pinterest , instagram, guest blogging and forums q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: ads programs, affiliate programs, sell your services, set up a business attached to your travel blog. we did one last year and it has already made much more money than the blog ever has. https://www.octopustransferscroatia.com/ tiffany soukup vagabondway.net my name is tiffany and my husband and i have been traveling around the world debt free for over ten years. we write, blog, take photographs and live part of the year in a forest. travel is our passion. what’s yours? q: recommend 1 self-hosted blogging tool? a: ghost.org q: recommend 3 types of blog content? a: articles, videos, free resources q: recommend 3 ways to promote your blog? a: instagram , seo, email lists q: recommend 3 ways to make money? a: sell digital products , sell merchandise products, sell your services all experts here is what we will talk about today: why start a travel blog? what you will be doing as a travel blogger how to know if this is right for you there are difficulties you need to overcome define your travel niche come up with a name for your travel blog create your own travel blog how to write and create great blog content how to promote your travel blog and its content how travel blogs can earn money this guide is focused on building a travel blog, but there are also many things in here that can help you start any kind of blog. simply put, some things are the same, but some are different. so, let’s start with the first important question that needs to be answered. why start a travel blog? there are a couple of reasons why you should embark on this journey. naturally, like with any serious step in your life, you need to know your “why” if you are going to succeed. this is what fuels your motivation and keeps you going even when you are feeling tired, and let’s be honest, you might experience various setbacks on the road up ahead. still, nothing worthwhile comes easily and the same rule applies to becoming a successful travel blogger. here are some good reasons that will drive you towards success. you want to do it for yourself if you want to start a travel blog and eventually become successful and making money off it, there is nothing wrong about that. in fact, it is very good to have this kind of ambition. we all have our dreams and aspirations, an idea of how we would like our lives to look in the future. if you are an independent individual who wants to do everything on their own, this kind of career choice might be suitable for you. so, if you can’t imagine your life without traveling and you would like to continue doing it in the future while making money, then this is a path you should pursue. the important thing is to be prepared to work for yourself as well and not just dream of being a travel blogger. work hard and you will get there. you want to get into the tourism industry a lot of people see travel blogging as an opportunity to get into the tourism industry. although this is a viable option, there is a big mistake people make at the start. instead of thinking about what they can offer to the industry, they immediately think about what they will get. to get something in return, you need to give value and not the other way around. don’t be that blogger that sends emails to travel agencies asking them for free accommodation etc. work on building your blog and focus on yourself. as you offer quality, the opportunities will arise on their own. you want to help others it’s good to have ambition and achieve everything you’ve imagined in life through travel blogging, but still, if you think that you can make it all about yourself and succeed, you are terribly wrong. travel blogging is about engaging with various communities and sharing content, learning from each other and cooperating. you need to establish a connection with your audience, collaborate with other bloggers and influencers, and be partners with people from the tourism industry. this means providing quality content that will teach, inspire and entertain people and be helpful to them in some way. all bloggers need to have the motivation to share their ideas and try to bring value to people; this can sustain them even when they are not making money. what you will be doing as a travel blogger a lot of people have misconceptions about what it means to be a blogger. for example, people think that the only thing travel bloggers do is travel around the world and get discounts and free services. if it were this easy, everyone would be doing it, but in reality, there are many tasks behind the scene that bloggers do and spend most of their time on. you will spend a lot of time in front of your computer a travel blogger is a writer, editor, journalist, researcher, photographer and many other things. you will have to spend a lot of time reading about places, travel destinations, sights, landmarks, restaurants, and hotels before you can do other things. you will spend time writing, editing photos, communicating with people, booking, and maintain your blog. becoming a jack of all trades being independent means that you will have to do everything on your own. at least until you start making enough money to have someone assist you with the work you do. you will have to learn a bit of everything to make a serious travel blog. this includes writing, photographing, video editing, photo editing, promoting content, pitching ideas, making business connections etc. how to know if this is right for you the first essential condition for this is that you love to travel. if you are not enthusiastic about traveling, seeing new places, learning about new countries, exploring and meeting new people, then this is not a path you should pursue. travel bloggers need to be curious and open to exploring, this is how they are able to find interesting topics to talk about and create engaging content. a lot of people travel twice per year and think that they can easily become travel bloggers, but bear in mind that travel bloggers are constantly on the move and that they always look to find cheap accommodation and work while traveling. you need to be adjustable and have the ability to not get attached to a single place. traveling as a blogger is different than going on a vacation. as soon as you land somewhere, you will have to focus on your work, follow a schedule and make sure that you visit the things you planned to. you won’t have much time to sit back, relax and enjoy yourself. there are difficulties you need to overcome travel blogging is a job and it’s not easy. like we mentioned earlier, most people only see the glamour and exotic locations, but they don’t realize that there is a lot of hard work behind that. more importantly, those bloggers you look up to took several years to achieve the success they have and it didn’t happen overnight. here are a couple of real difficulties travel bloggers experience. the competition is fierce a lot of people like to travel and, naturally, they also want to become travel bloggers. on top of that, they think it’s easy to become one. even though people with this kind of mindset don’t create successful blogs, there are those who put in the work and build their empire carefully over a long time. this means that there are a lot of travel blogs out there and that it is difficult to make it big unless you add something unique to what your blog has to offer. there isn’t a fixed salary a lot of people are used to having a fixed monthly income on which they can rely and create plans around. when you start your career as a travel blogger this is not possible, and even later you will often earn different amounts each month. with blogging, the beginning is more of an expense than a job. you need to invest in building up your blog and traveling to places in order to add some content to that blog. this is how things might work for a while and you will have to learn to manage with your limited finances unless you have a lot of money saved up in your bank account. you will have to learn how to overcome your writing blocks when you’ve worked out your travel blogging “gigs” and you make deals with travel agencies, you will have to create quality content on a regular basis. simply put, you will have deadlines that you will have to meet, similarly to any other job. apart from having to create a lot of content, you will also have to travel and try to visit as many locations as you can while learning about them so that you can have something to offer on your blog. you will have to become thick-skinned it may be very exciting to you when you start your blogging career, but soon enough you will start to understand that things don’t always go as easily as you though. there are a lot of disappointments waiting for you on this path, so be prepared to try over and over again until you catch your big break. sometimes, you will feel like you don’t know where to go next and what to try, and it is best to take a break for the day and clear your mind so that you can start over tomorrow. define your travel niche having a clearly defined niche is a very important thing, but at the same time, it can be very annoying. a lot of people have various interests concerning travel and they want to talk about many different things. however, this creates a problem, as you won’t be able to build an audience that will keep coming back to your blog. simply put, if you write about various different aspects of traveling on your blog but you don’t focus on anything in particular, you will end up with a lot of superficial information and nothing truly unique and valuable. travel is a blogging niche on its own, but you can further specialize in the things you love and offer quality content. you can find your travel niche simply by combining travel with an additional aspect and focusing on those things, for example: travel and cooking travel and music festivals travel and ancient landmarks travel and family vacations travel and traditional cuisine travel and fashion these are all clear and precise travel blogging niches. choose the one you are passionate about and where there is a clear audience hungry for more content. a lot of people worry about whether or not they will be able to keep it interesting if they limit themselves to one niche; you will be able to do this if you are really interested in what you are writing about and if your work hard. come up with a name for your travel blog the name of your blog carries a lot of importance. not only will it represent your blog, but it will also be a part of your brand and help you attract more visitors. more importantly, you will always be able to change and improve various aspects of your blog, but your name will stick forever and this is why you need to think about it very carefully. all of the pieces need to fit together because a lot will depend on the name of your blog in the future. here are the essentials you need to cover when coming up with a domain name for your travel blog: the name must be simple, easy to remember and spell. it should be fairly short. you shouldn’t include numbers or signs. the name should tell people what your blog is about. it should be unique. recommended tool: create your own travel blog instructions for setting up your bluehost account in these short 11 steps, we will give you detailed instructions on how to make your own bluehost hosting account along with the appropriate screenshots. if you decide to go with other web hosting provider the process might be slightly different but most steps should be similar. step one click on this link to grab your bluehost special deal. after that, click on “get started now”. step two select the plan you want. if you are doing this for the first time, choose the basic plan and change it once you’ve learned more about the other ones. the basic plan has everything you need for starting a simple blog and running it for a while. you can upgrade it to some other plan later when you really need it. step three the domain name of your blog is extremely important, so make sure that you think about it and come up with a good one. once you’ve found the right idea, enter your domain name in the “new domain” to see whether it’s available or not. step four once you’ve finished setting up your domain name you will be taken to the registration page and this is where you will provide personal information such as a billing location. it only takes a few minutes to do this. step five carefully consider the hosting options that you are given. the 12-month option is the cheapest one, but there are also other options that make a good long-term investment in your blog. the rest of the boxes can remain unchecked and you can change their settings when you want. step six after entering all of the payment information the next step is to set the password that you will use to verify your account and gain access whenever you want to. step seven once you’ve created your password and finished this step you can go and login in to your bluehost hosting account. step eight after logging in, the first thing you need to do is choose a wordpress theme that will be set on your blog at all times. don’t worry, you are not making any commitments and you can always come back to these settings in your bluehost account to change it to some other theme from a wordpress.org repository. step nine once you’ve decided which theme to be set as default on your blog, you can launch your portal by going into the wordpress dashboard which is provided by bluehost. step ten when you get into the wordpress dashboard, you will see a welcome message and be asked if you want to use the bluehost wizard that will guide you through the creation of your blog. if you are a beginner, then this is the right way to go, if you have experience with setting up blogs, reject the help and continue on your own. step eleven in the top left corner, you can find the bluehost option. when you click on it, you will see a list of all the tools that you can use to customize and build your blog. once you’ve set everything the way you like it, click “launch” and your new blog will be online in a matter of minutes. once you’ve clicked “launch” the only thing remaining to do is to give your blog a name and add a description. bear in mind that both of these carry a lot of importance and you should think hard about them. ta-dah! now you can start your blogging career! if you have some additional questions about your blog and bluehost’s service, feel free to ask us and we will gladly help you as best as we can. how to write and create great blog content content is an often discussed subject in the blogging world and when you read opinions from different bloggers, you will see that almost all of them have different approaches. this is because creating content is a very personal thing and everyone has their own thought process in their head while doing this. even though you will eventually have your own way of doing this, there are certain essentials that you must cover. make sure your content is unique regardless of whether you are writing blog posts or shooting photos, you need to give something unique to your potential audience. as we mentioned earlier, the travel blogging market is very saturated and there are many blogs competing for the same audiences. in this sea of opportunities, you need to stand out and catch the reader’s eye with something that nobody else has. if you offer content that is basically the same as something they’ve seen, they won’t pay much attention to it and just keep moving on. branding is also very important in blogging and to build your own brand you must have a unique approach to creating content. create content for your audience before you write, record or photograph anything, you should consider the audience that content is aimed at. good content is a subjective thing, one audience might like a certain style of writing, tone, phrases, and information included within the content, while another audience will have no interest in it whatsoever. define your target audience, learn about it as much as possible and always consider it when creating content for your blog. this is how you will always make sure that your content has something the audience finds interesting. write about what you know all bloggers stick to what they know best. this is the recipe for success. sure, you can expand your range of interests, topics, and knowledge over time, but you will always have one area where most of your interests and expertise lie. for example, if you know how to cook and like to taste various dishes when traveling, stick to talking about food and introducing people to different cultures through cuisine. this way, you will have a higher chance of engaging your audience and telling them something interesting and exciting that they didn’t already know. how to promote your travel blog and its content no matter how good your blog might be in terms of visuals, content, design, and functionality, you will never be able to build your audience unless you promote your blog properly. you need to put yourself out there for someone to notice your content and give you their attention. simply put, you can have all the quality to offer in the world, but without anyone to see it, it won’t be worth anything. here are the things you need to do: promote your blog on social media social media is the bread and butter of any blogger, as it is a great platform for spreading the word about your blog. first of all, you need to share all new blog posts on social media to drive traffic to your site and engage people to comment, share, criticize or get in touch with you. you can also join groups with travel enthusiasts and other bloggers and gain access to people that might be interested in what you have to offer. collaborate with other bloggers by researching and getting in touch with other like-minded bloggers, you will be able to create relationships which are mutually beneficial. first of all, you can do link exchanges where you promote other people’s blogs and they promote your blog on their posts. on the other hand, you can do guest posts on someone else’s blog and they on yours, to tap into each other’s audiences. write articles for travel sites there are various travel websites where you can guest post for free. they need quality content and you need more people to know about you. after writing quality posts, you can add links to your blog and social media profiles so that people can get more from you if they like what you do. these are the basic and most fundamental ways you can promote your blog at the start for no money. it’s all about being persistent and learning how to do these things better and better to maximize results. how travel blogs can earn money even though you shouldn’t expect to make money any time soon after launching your blog, it is a good thing to know what the potential ways of getting cash for what you do are. first of all, you need to understand that your number one priority after launching your blog should be to build your audience, promote it, and create as much quality content as possible. this is because all sources of income are directly dependent on these things and without a developed blog, you will never be able to make money. so, here are the three most common ways travel blogs make money: affiliate marketing affiliate marketing is when a blog adds banners, links, or ads from a third-party on their blog and suggests that their readers go to another site and look at their products or services. with travel blogging, affiliate marketing usually revolves around promoting travel agencies, hotels, restaurants, travel websites, and so on. simply put, you need to promote something that might interest your audience because your income depends on the number of people you send through affiliate links. writing sponsored posts when your blog has grown enough, you will get contacted by people who want you to write posts for them on your blog and publish them for money. in most cases, these posts have a link which leads to the client’s website. still, it is important to write posts relevant to your audience and avoid ruining your blog just because someone is paying you money. sponsored press trips a lot of big bloggers get contacted by travel agencies to visit a certain location, review it, talk about sights, and their impressions. in return, they get paid and their travel expenses are taken care of. examples of the best travel blogs to follow before you start your blogging journey, though, it’s good to take a look around, and see what the pros are packing. it’s not just what to take, either; it’s what to leave behind. so you might want to casually snoop around these travel blogs. they’re the best of the best, and they know their way through anywhere. man on the lam by raymond nomad revelations by joao leitao explore inspired by jonathan ronzio etramping by agness & cez conclusion stick to the advice that we gave you today and setting up a blog will be a walk in the park. however, your job is just starting and you will have to work hard to build an audience for your blog. be prepared to put in a lot of work and don’t expect to see any big results in the near future, both financially and in terms of visitors. still, if you put in 2 hours per day, and even less on average, you will get good results after a while and get that dream job you always wanted. 17 comments on “how to start a travel blog” nathaniel february 5, 2020 at 3:22 pm great article for a newbie travel blogger. you have given almost all the information or guides needed to be a successful travel blogger. reply ogi djuraskovic february 6, 2020 at 4:19 pm thanks nathaniel! let us know if you need any help in setting up your travel blog. reply myron homes december 10, 2019 at 7:02 am nice information…useful content reply anya skrba december 17, 2019 at 3:27 pm thanks myron! reply kritika september 25, 2019 at 6:17 am absolutely honest tips on starting a travel blog! it really made me feel comfortable and confident about starting not just a travel blog, but of any kind. thank for being a guide for all those who want to share their travel experiences as well as earn money by doing so. reply anya skrba september 25, 2019 at 11:26 am we’re glad that you found it useful and we hope that you will continue to monetize your blog as well! reply short treks august 22, 2019 at 7:17 am great guide. it’s pretty helpful for beginners like us to take a step into writing travel blogs. reply anya skrba august 23, 2019 at 9:27 am thanks for the praise – much appreciated! 🙂 reply puja june 26, 2019 at 12:47 pm good post. i think this is very useful for travelers. thanks for sharing the useful guide. reply filipe morato gomes april 18, 2019 at 10:14 am useful info for people trying to become a successful travel blogger. and i’m glad my good friend joão leitão is mentioned here… 🙂 congratulations, that’s a great post! reply prabu natraj april 4, 2019 at 5:53 am really nice. i have always wanted to be a travel blogger. it is really kind of you to help out those of us who are newbies. this is very useful for me. reply donna march 9, 2019 at 12:36 am wow. thank you. i have always wanted to be a travel blogger. it really is kind of you to help out those of us who are newbies. this information will be really useful to me now and in the future. thanks again. reply agen january 28, 2019 at 2:55 am love this article! thanks for sharing. reply miranda dwells january 16, 2019 at 6:32 am thank you for posting this. it was really great article! reply tommy january 13, 2019 at 4:20 am great article! 😉 reply najitha january 4, 2019 at 10:32 am thank you for the information. great guide. reply alekhya january 3, 2019 at 9:25 am thank you for the information. it is great article for where a blogger can earn money. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.