skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) alex and lauren updated: 3/24/20 • comments: 4 home » create and go blog » blogging basics » how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin0 shares0 open this window to get started with bluehost now.start with bluehost nowstart now are you looking for a simple, step-by-step guide to how to start a blog and actually make money from it!? our free guide on this page will show you how to create a blog that is beautiful and functional, all in an easy step-by-step tutorial (with pictures). if you’re ready to dive right in and start your blogging journey, click here to go to step #1. if you’re asking should i start a blog, chances are that are you already have some inkling of the financial freedom and time freedom that come from blogging, but it’s so much more than that. you don’t have a be an exceptional writer to be a good blogger. anyone can succeed in blogging as long as they are committed to their goals, want it badly enough, and put in the work to get there. here are some of our favorite reasons for starting a blog: you can control your income and be your own boss! you can travel the world and work while doing it. no more limited “vacation” time! you can completely design your days. your schedule is completely up to you! you can help people. this makes what you do every day so much more rewarding! there are so many reasons to start a blog. these are just some of our top reasons! so… how do i get started already? you can now set up your blog with bluehost for as low as $2.75/month, and that also comes with a free domain name! for those of you who like video walkthroughs better, we made this simple tutorial of how to start a blog in 10 minutes (step-by-step)… make sure to save/pin/bookmark this page, and come back to it for later if you can’t finish everything today. and trust us when we say this: if we can do it, anyone can! step 1. build your blog (our so-easy-yo-grandma-could-do-it guide) to build your blog, you need two things: blogging platform – this is the place you will make edits and write your blog posts. hosting – just like buying a lot for a new home, you need to buy a space on the internet for your new blog to be set up. a blogging host helps you buy and secure this lot! we are going to use the blogging platform wordpress with the hosting company bluehost as this combination is the perfect way to start for a newbie. wordpress and bluehost are like peanut butter and jelly for blogging beginners because: wordpress is the main platform used by 95% of successful bloggers because it’s insanely powerful and customizable. bluehost is a perfect starter host for newbies and has 24/7 customer service. they are fully integrated with one another and bluehost makes the setup process easy. at this point, i’m sure you’re probably wondering: how do i start a blog for free? well, you can start a free blog if you want to. but you shouldn’t start a free blog if you want to turn your new blog into a successful business. here’s why: free blog platforms come with a whole lot of limitations, including… don’t own your domain name can’t run ads and are limited in other ways of monetizing your content looks unprofessional and isn’t as much of a trusted source less bandwidth (will need to upgrade to a paid platform when you start getting a lot of visitors) and quite a few more! you can’t start a blog for free, without putting any money into it, and expect to earn money from it. if it were that easy, everyone and their grandma would be doing it, competition would be sky high, and no one would be making any money from it! trust us when we say that you should not start a free blog if you want to turn it into a successful online business. if you are on a tighter budget and can only spend money on one thing, the blog hosting plan is the #1 most important investment you can make. if you have not already, click here to go to bluehost and then use the tutorial below for easy, step-by-step directions (clicking that link if how you get the discount). this tutorial is going to start with a webpage showing our bright, shining faces. we’re going to guide you through the process of how to start a blog step-by-step! first, go to bluehost.com, if you haven’t already. make sure you have the page pulled up in a separate window before beginning the tutorial. after you click the button to get started on the homepage, you will then see a list of pricing options. next, choose which pricing plan is best for you. no worries – you don’t need anything more than the basic plan. after selecting your plan, you will want to enter your new domain name, as seen below: a domain name is the text on the top bar of your webpage. “createandgo.com” is our domain name for this website. don’t have the domain name you want just yet? don’t sweat it! you can click the link to create it later and continue with the guide and select your domain later on! on the next page, you will fill out the create your account section: then scroll down to the section with the package information. first — select your account plan. this is where you select the length of your plan. we recommend the 36-month plan because it provides the best value for your money, but the 12-month plan is great as well. remember: you can cancel risk-free for 30 days. bluehost offers a guarantee, and you can cancel your plan at any time during the first 30 days and get a full refund. signing on for a longer plan represents a commitment you are making to your blog and yourself. commit to making this a long-term deal that will reap you tons of rewards over the next few years! yes, you have to pay the money upfront, but this is going to be something you stick with for a while right?! make the commitment to yourself to see this thing through. after selecting your package information, scroll down to the section on package extras. uncheck all boxed except privacy protection. it should look like this: note* if you selected the option to choose a domain name later, you won’t see the option to add privacy protection right now. you’ll just want to pay for it as an add-on when you decide to register a domain name. selecting domain privacy protection hides your personal details so that your information remains confidential. unless you want spammers and scammers blowing up your phone – you want this checked! finally, all you have to do is add in your credit card details, check the standard privacy policy and terms of service, and hit the green submit button! congratulations! you now own your very own blog and hosting plan! not too painful, right??? the next few steps will direct you to create your password before beginning with anything else. make sure to create a secure password! after selecting your password, click the “login” button. this will direct you to select a theme for your wordpress blog. getting started with wordpress the themes on this page are all free. you can select any one of these free themes to get started. don’t worry – you can change this at any time, and we’ll discuss it in more detail in a few moments. after selecting your theme, it will take a few minutes to set up your wordpress dashboard. once it’s finished, click “start building” to go to your wordpress dashboard. from here, click on the “business” button, as shown below. if you miss this step and accidentally click personal, don’t worry. it doesn’t really matter. next, you’ll be asked to set up a site title and site description. this should be simple and descriptive of what your blog is about but if you aren’t sure what you want to say just yet, just click to skip this step and you can set it up later. you can see an example of a site title and description below: after this step, it will ask you if you will be updating your blog with new content. heck yeah, you will be! select yes. from here, you will be prompted to select whether you’d like to set your homepage up to display recent posts or to have a static homepage. you can select either, but most people end up using a static homepage, so we’ve selected that option in this tutorial. you can also change this at any point in time in the future if you change your mind! after selecting your homepage design, bluehost will ask you if you want to set up a contact page. we’re going to select no this time because you can set that up later. it shouldn’t be a top priority right now. from here, click on the connect to wordpress.com button. next, you will be prompted to create an account for jetpack. skip this step for now. we don’t recommend installing jetpack as it’s a bloated plugin that can slow down our website. before moving on to the next steps, make sure to visit the email account that you used to sign up so that you can verify your address with bluehost. you have 14 days to do this after signing up, but you should verify it as soon as possible so that you can access your bluehost dashboard. just click the button in your email to verify: now, before we start designing and customizing, we want to show you how to access your bluehost account and wordpress dashboard in the future in case you need to stop and start at any time. how to access bluehost and wordpress there are two different ways to get back into your wordpress dashboard and access your blog. the first way is to go to bluehost.com and log in using the email and password that you created in the setup above. from here, you can click on the log in to wordpress button. the other way to access your blog is a little more direct but it requires you to set up a new admin account within wordpress first. you can do that through these steps. follow the step above to access your wordpress dashboard through your bluehost.com account. on the menu on the left, go to users → add new. create a new user account with a username. this will be the account that you will use to login with in the future. next, go back to all users and delete the old admin user. once you set up this new user, all you need to do to log in to your site is to type in yourdomainnamehere.com/wp-admin/ into your browser and you will be directed to log in to your wordpress account. for example, my domain name is mynewtravelblog.com for the purposes of this tutorial. i would type in mynewtravelblog.com/wp-admin/ to access my blog. log in using the username and password you just set up in the steps above and you can access your wordpress dashboard! step 2. become a wordpress ninja wordpress can be super daunting to learn at first. and while there is a bit of a learning curve, i promise you that it isn’t that bad! once you understand the basics, you’ll get the hang of it really quickly. i’ve highlighted the main areas you will be working with below: here is a basic overview of these features: posts your posts are just your blog posts, or “articles.” this is where the bulk of the content that you write will live and where you can go back to edit it anytime you want. blog posts are generally organized by categories so that people can easily find the content that they are interested in. for example, on our health and wellness blog, our posts are organized into the following categories: weight loss yoga healthy living recipes supplements you can have however many or few categories you want on your blog! we’ll discuss how to create your first post in the next section! pages pages are similar to posts in that they look similiar in wordpress and have the same editors. but pages differ from post in that they are meant to be for more “static content” that isn’t updated frequently, such as… contact page (usually has a form or email address where people can contact you) about me page (about you and your blog) legal pages (refund policy, privacy policy, disclaimer, etc.) blog posts have specific purposes that usually involve educating your audience about a topic. the purpose of blog pages is usually to provide more technical information about your website. the pages are usually linked in your menus, whereas blog posts are linked on a main blog page or separate category pages. comments this is where you can see the comments that people write on your blog posts and respond to them. you can view them on each post that someone has commented on or you can see them all at once in this area. media library the media library is where all of the images that you upload to your blog are stored. you can add images directly to the media library or you can add them directly into blog posts and they’ll automatically be added to the library. we’ll show you how to add images to blog posts in the next section! appearance this is where you can make customizations to your blog like changing themes (discussed in the section above on themes). you can also create and edit your menus, sidebars, and other widgets in the appearance section. plugins a plugin is add-on software that you can install on your blog to make additional customizations that are outside the capabilities of your theme. there are both free and paid plugins and they can help you: change the look of your author box help speed up your website add social icons and buttons to your blog help with blog security and so much more! we have an article on the best plugins for your blog that will also show you how to upload and install them to your blog! users this is where you can change your email and password to your site or add other users if desired. you probably won’t need to create new users for a while but if you ever hire a web developer or anyone else to help you design or make changes to your website, you can create new users to give them access to your bog. settings this is where your general blog settings are, including how some things are set up and displayed on your blog. in the settings area, you can edit the following: site tagline email address time zone and date settings homepage and blog display settings comment settings and more the best thing you can do is just start playing around in wordpress. click on some of the links on the dashboards and see what options come up to familiarize yourself with the settings. here is another video that we put together to help you navigate the wordpress dashboard: at this point, you’re going to be very tempted to start down the black hole of designing your blog, but we encourage you to move on and create your first blog post first! adding a post to your blog first will help you design your blog so you can better see how things will look when you have more content on your blog! step 3. get some blog design inspiration this section is just a quick read to give you examples of some common blog designs so you can get ideas of how you might want yours to look before you start designing your blog! we’re going to go over 3 main types of blog designs: content-focused influencer-focused mix of both so, no matter what type of blog you are starting, you’ll have some great examples of how to design it for success! focus: content abby lawson has a different setup because you can see that her face is not the first thing you see when you get to her blog. items to note about this blog design: the main feature on the page is her content. she has three different blog categories of content to choose from based on what readers are most interested in. she also has a sign-up form for her email list right on her homepage. this is a great blog design for a beginner because many new bloggers aren’t ready to put their faces front and center or hire a photographer to take a professional photo. this is a little closer to the original design of our first blog in the first few months, but it can work for anyone because abby has been blogging for several years now! focus: influencer pat flynn has a homepage that is very similar to this blog’s homepage (create and go) and what we used for our six-figure health and wellness blog. items to note about this blog design: the main feature on the page is, of course, pat flynn himself. he is an established authority figure in his niche, and he includes a big headline next to his photo so that his readers know exactly what his website is about when they visit his homepage. he also has two menus up at the top with various links to pages on his blog. lastly, he has a “learn more” button that takes you to another page to learn more about what he offers on his website. this blog design is best-suited for someone who has established themselves in their blog niche community or who has the resources to hire a photographer to take professional photos. it’s also best-suited for anyone that knows they want to be a big name in their community and they want to start off with a bang. when you are the central focus, it can help to establish you as an authority figure in your niche. focus: mix elsie and emma have a great mix of the above two styles. items to note about this blog design: the focus of their homepage is split between their recent blog posts and a section about them. there is also a separate menu just for their blog categories. this type of blog design is also great for beginners because you will be posting a lot of content in the beginning and the addition of the section about you helps to build trust with your new readers. it’s also a great design for anyone with a lifestyle blog that plans to blog on several different topics. additional tips for blog design don’t overthink this. go with your initial thoughts on what might be best for you and your blog. the truth is that you will end up changing your blog design many times as your blog grows, your content strategies change, and you begin monetizing your blog. as you get more readers to your blog, you will begin to learn more about who your target audience is and what they are interested in and that will help determine how you design your blog. the overall design matters very little in these early stages, so it’s best to stick with something simple and professional. you can also get some additional ideas for blog design in our article below: step 4. select a great wordpress blog theme a blog theme is software and coding that allows you to design and customize your blog. please pay very close attention to this section because this is the place where most new bloggers waste the majority of their time in the first month of blogging. some of our blogging students have actually earned money in their first couple of months blogging and there is a reason that they are different than most other bloggers. they heed the advice in this section! it’s design time! we need to start this off with a bit of a warning. when learning any new software or platform, the beginning can be daunting and confusing. it’s going to take a few weeks working in wordpress and playing around with it for things to start becoming familiar. this is the stage where a lot of people get frustrated and a lot of self-doubts come up. this is normal and something every blogger before you have gone through. i was a cpa and alex was a personal trainer with no coding experience or anything close to an “understanding” of how the system worked. trust that you are going to stick with it and learn the system. wordpress is the most powerful blogging resource on the web today and gives people who have no experience in coding the ability to create beautiful websites. commit to learning the ins and outs of wordpress, and it will serve you very well in the future. and if every day you focus on creating awesomeness, in 2 month’s time, you’ll be shocked at how proficient you will be! option 1: use a free wordpress theme free themes are a great place to start if you’re a beginner blogger, but they will lack some of the tools a paid theme gives you. if you have the extra $50 – $100 to invest, then go for a paid theme. if you feel stretched at this point, we get it. rock a free theme for a month or so and get used to the platform. you can use one of the free themes wordpress has pre-installed under the “appearances” and “themes” tabs. just click customize to switch themes. there are also a ton of free themes. if there are free themes, why would i ever want a paid theme? paid themes are generally much more powerful and customizable than free themes. this is because they will have an entire support staff dedicated to helping you and making sure you succeed. they are also used by 95% of people running profitable blogs. that being said, starting by playing around with some free themes is perfectly fine. it will get your feet wet and help you start better understanding wordpress. our #1 recommendation for a free theme is flash by themegrill. option 2: save time and get a better design with a paid theme divi theme divi theme is the #1 most beginner-friendly and customizable theme on the market. it’s also what we recommend to all of our blogging students. you can easily customize the design of your homepage and other pages on your website and they have great customer service. they also have a no-questions-asked, 30-day money-back guarantee, so there is absolutely no risk to try it! when you purchase divi, you also get access to the entire elegant themes market, which includes over 70 other themes to choose from if you don’t end up loving divi. get to work on selecting the right theme for you, but don’t over analyze it! if you have spent more than 2-3 hours selecting a theme, just pick one and rock it for a while. the steps below will show you how to upload and change your theme in wordpress. how to change your theme in wordpress first, you’ll need to purchase divi, or another theme and download the zipped theme file. next, head over to your wordpress dashboard and navigate to appearance –> themes. click on the button to add a new theme: at the very top of the next screen, click the button to upload your theme: next, choose the zipped theme file that you previously downloaded to your computer in the first step. once it’s uploaded, click the buttons to install and activate and you’re finished! additional theme resources: here are some additional resources and tutorials to help you start exploring your new theme! divi theme documentation if you’re still undecided on a blog theme, you can also check out our article on best wordpress themes for bloggers for some other recommendations. step 5. write your first blog post! welcome to how to blog 101 -> let’s start by writing your first blog post! what should my first blog post be about? your first post can be about whatever you want, but we recommend keeping it simple and introducing yourself to your audience. tell them a little bit about yourself and why you started your blog. let’s get started writing your first blog post in wordpress! first, navigate to posts –> add new from your left-hand wordpress dashboard menu. let’s start with the title of your first blog post. you can name it whatever you want but here are some suggestions: welcome to my new blog! why i finally started my blog what this blog is about hello party people, i’m [name], and welcome to my blog!! welcome to my blog about [blog topic] you can also change your blog post title at any time, so don’t worry too much about getting the headline 100% right. after you’ve written your title, click on the block underneath the title to start writing your content. i started off with a simple welcome message and introduced myself. next, let’s add an image. you don’t have to do this, but it’s a great way to build that first personal connection with your reader. this is the first step to building trust with your reader. if they are able to put a face to the words they are reading, they are more likely to feel connected to you. to insert an image, you can click the plus button or the image icon. then click “upload media.” now you can select a photo from your computer and upload it straight to wordpress. once it’s uploaded to your wordpress media library, you can easily select it for any other posts in the future. once you’ve uploaded a photo, you can continue writing the rest of your content by adding a new text/media block underneath your photo: the rest of your content on this first blog post should be about you and why you started your blog. here are some helpful questions that you can answer in this first post: what got you interested in your blog topic and what made you finally start your blog about it? what do you want to help others with? do you have a mission statement or a core belief about your blog topic that you can share with your audience? feel free to include any other photos or ideas that you think might be helpful or relevant here. you can also include a few links to websites that you felt motivated and inspired by on your journey to starting a blog. to add a hyperlink, type out the text that you want to link, click on the hyperlink icon, and then paste a link to the website in the field that pops up: include 3-4 websites that you have found inspirational so far. lastly, you can conclude your post by saying thank you to your reader for being here and ask them to please leave a comment below the article if they enjoyed the post or have any questions for you. this is a great way to start getting some initial feedback on your blog and start building those relationships with your readers. publish your wordpress post your blog post remains in “draft mode” while you are writing it. this means that a draft copy is saved in wordpress and no one can view it until you decide to publish the content. once you’ve finished writing your blog post, you can publish it so that other people can see it. to publish a blog post, just click the publish button at the top right corner of the page: once it’s published, there will be a link at the top of the screen to view your post. after you’ve published your blog post, you can share a link on your facebook account or send the link to family members or friends if you’d like to share it with anyone! step 6. get involved in the blogging community you don’t have to do this alone, and you shouldn’t! it can be a dark and lonely road full of self-doubt and fear. we’ve felt all of those emotions along the way and it’s hard not to when you wonder if you’ll ever make it. it’s important to remember that you’re not alone and you can always get encouragement and learn from others. a mistake most new bloggers make when starting out is not reaching out for help and connecting with other blogging communities. here are the final 3 steps for really getting involved. do not skip this step. join our facebook group for new bloggers our create and go blogging community has grown to over 11,000 members, and they’re a rockstar bunch of people! our community members are a mix of brand new bloggers plus those that have been blogging for years. every day, we have people asking questions, sharing experiences, and learning from one another. here is an example of the kind of questions people ask and the feedback that they receive: this kind of resources is invaluable for new bloggers and is something that we wish we had used when we first started. introduce yourself and what your new blog is about! you might be able to find some bloggers that are in your niche that can provide some helpful information. we’d love to hear how you’re doing and answer any questions you may have! next best resources some final words from us… we know it can be overwhelming and confusing when starting out. not too long ago, we were right there looking at our computers sitting in the same seat you are right now. the most important thing you can do is to get started, and you’ve done that today! once you’ve started your blog, and gotten a little more comfortable with wordpress and designing your blog, these are the next important steps you should take with your new blog: write content the very next thing you’ll want to focus on is writing content. remember that you’ve just started a blog, and the main content of your blog will be the articles that you write. they will help you attract an audience, connect with that audience, eventually sell products, and more. we have a great article on how to write content your readers will love that you can check out when you’re ready to write your first few blog posts! get visitors after you’ve written a few articles, it’s time to get some visitors to your blog to read your content! there are a few different platforms to do this, including google, facebook, youtube, instagram, and pinterest. our personal recommendation for most beginner bloggers is to start out on pinterest. it’s one of the best places to drive the most organic (free) traffic to your blog. most other platforms are: less than ideal for getting people to actually read blog posts (youtube and instagram) or are very competitive and require paying for ads (facebook) or just take much longer to get organic traffic (google) to read more about how to get started on pinterest, check out our article on pinterest for bloggers. make money but what about the money!?!??? most new bloggers get overly focused on trying to make money right out of the gate. we get it. you’re ready to run a blogging business and you’ve just invested some money into that business. but it’s important to set up your foundation correctly and build your blog the right way first. and that means writing content and getting visitors to your blog first before you worry about making any money. that being said, it’s good to get some ideas of ways that you can make money blogging so you can have some direction as you move forward! we hope you enjoyed this post on how to start a blog! if you’d like to thank us, we’d love to hear from you in the comment section below! we’d also be happy to answer any questions you may have! we hope you have enjoyed our guide and you are finally free of having to ask yourself “how do you start a blog”? alex and lauren about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin0 shares0 about alex and lauren about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. read this next 4 leave a reply 2 comment threads 2 thread replies 0 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 3 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest kevin velasquez hi guys, i’m trying to start a blog and i already have a few blog post drafts ready to be published. i feel like they are incredibly informative and high quality, in a subject and industry that dominates the a huge percentage of the market. they also have the capability to have a lot of affiliates posted with them. the problem is i don’t have a single blog posted yet and no traffic yet since i still haven’t published my website. typically you guys have said to first build an audience and gather traffic to your website before monetizing. so… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 days ago author alex and lauren hey kevin. you can always go back and add affiliate links as you get approved to different affiliate programs. i recommend that you start with great content that your audience will find valuable. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 days ago guest anna this is an awesome article – thanks lauren. so detailed and thorough, a great reference. i’ve bookmarked it already 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 11 days ago author alex and lauren thanks anna! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 11 days ago primary sidebar table of contents step 1. build your blog (our so-easy-yo-grandma-could-do-it guide) step 2. become a wordpress ninja step 3. get some blog design inspiration step 4. select a great wordpress blog theme step 5. write your first blog post! step 6. get involved in the blogging community next best resources start with bluehost now click here to get started footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz