home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us sponsored post how to use tech to make the most of... sponsored post how to use tech to make the most of university lectures by shashank jain - june 22, 2017 216 0 - advertisment - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp being at university can sometimes come as quite a shock, and this is largely due to the fact that you are much more in control of your own learning than you might have been when you were at school. with your leather macbook pro case and your macbook sleeve you may feel unstoppable, and this is great as a positive attitude will go a long way to making sure that you succeed. however, it is important to make the most of the lectures that you are given, and knowing how to use tech to your advantage could help you with this. this blog will take you through some of the best ways to use technology to help you get a fantastic grade in your studies. record your lectures sometimes, lecturers can speak too quickly for you to properly understand what they’re saying, and for this reason it can be a great idea to record the lectures so that you can then play them back when you’re revising later. you could buy a dictaphone to do this, or you could simply use the voice memo function on your phone – this can be just as effective. however, if you are going to do this, it is polite to ask your lecturer, just to make sure that they don’t mind being recorded as they speak. type notes rather than writing them a lot of us can type quicker than we can write these days, and this is due to the fact that we all have so much practice using devices such as laptops. you might find that it helps you to bring your laptop with you to your lectures, as this means that you can type your notes, and edit them to make more sense of them later on. this is something that takes a lot more time with handwritten notes, so this is definitely something worth thinking about. present your notes in different ways everyone learns differently, and simply reading through pages of notes isn’t something that would necessarily be of benefit to everyone. because of this, it is good to try and present them in other ways, for example by drawing tables, venn diagrams, or mind maps. it is also good to use colour if you can, as this can be very appealing to you if you are a visual learner. if you are an auditory learner, then you should read your notes back to yourself and then listen to them. this is quite handy sometimes, as it means that you can revise while you’re out and about – no matter what you might be doing at the time. generally, technology has given us a great opportunity to do even better in our studies than ever before, so it makes sense to make the most of this if you can. if you are able to work out how you learn the best, then you can truly harness your own potential and come out of your exams with grades that you can be proud of. - advertisement - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp previous articleinstagram tips and tricks – from zero to hero guide next articlehow we fix dpc watchdog violation errors in windows 10 shashank jain shashank jain, founder of iphone-s, a young and energetic entrepreneur has always been fond of technology. his liking for technology made him go for engineering in computers. during his studies, he learned & worked on different computer languages & os including hbcd, linux, etc. he also has a keen interest in ethical hacking. leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. must read chatroulette apps for android & ios anshi - modified date: march 19, 2020 0 full guide on satisfactory save game location anshi - modified date: march 18, 2020 0 how to use cxbx emulator – way to play on cxbx ashish lavania - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 how cryptocurrency works: a complete guide by hedgespots anshi - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? shashank jain - modified date: march 7, 2020 0 - advertisement - sponsored postshashank jain - march 7, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? it’s perfectly normal to think that apple doesn’t make mistakes when it comes to technology. however, they do. when first... read more uncategorizedshashank jain - march 5, 2020 0 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use marketing strategy if you are not using email marketing to promote your brand, products or services, you are missing out on... read more must read uncategorizedshashank jain - september 15, 2015 0 difference between iphone 6s and iphone 6s plus counting on clocks and here’s your wait is over... read more sponsored postshashank jain - february 21, 2018 1 how a video becomes viral among teens? a viral video is anything but an animation clip... read more trending tech 8 amazing yoga and meditation apps for iphone users shashank jain - december 13, 2017 0 top 4 pocket wod free app for ipad/ iphone – crossfit app shashank jain - january 7, 2017 0 top 6 nature & wildlife mobile apps shashank jain - november 20, 2016 0 - advertisement - you might also likerelated recommended to you sponsored post apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? it’s perfectly normal to think that apple doesn’t make... shashank jain - march 7, 2020 0 read more sponsored post 50 creative coffee shops and cafe names 50 creative coffee shops and café names: tips to... shashank jain - october 15, 2018 0 read more sponsored post role of seo in boosting your page rankings just having a website online will not achieve your... shashank jain - october 15, 2018 0 read more sponsored post top smart health monitoring system for animals animal health monitoring system predicts about the diseases of... shashank jain - september 27, 2018 0 read more © copyright 2018 - iphone-s.com factspress