home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library food and drink latest articles prevnext how do our eating habits differ by region? leyla preston thu 22nd feb 2018 0shares share tweet pin britain is a nation of foodies, with 66% of uk adults describing themselves as passionate about food and drink. it comes as no surprise then that 50% say they are passionate about home cooking and 53% of millennials eat out at least once a week. brits spend a small fortune on food – whether it is takeaways and restaurants or luxury food from the supermarkets. on restaurant bills alone, the average brit spends around £44 per week. but what does our money get spent on? designers of bespoke kitchens in sussex, harvey jones, looks at the uk’s eating habits by region. table of contents takeaway lovers eating out home cooking sources takeaway lovers according to a survey by payment sense, the average brit spends around £9.75 on eating out or takeaways for themselves at least once a month. annually, this works out at £117 per person! whilst bristol is named the takeaway capital of the uk with a reported 279 takeaway restaurants, leeds appears to be the greatest lover of the takeaways. 77% of leeds folk admit to having at least one takeaway a month. this love of ordering in isn’t reflected in the whole yorkshire region, however. less than 25 miles away, people in york don’t dine as regularly on takeaways, with only 25% of them ordering a monthly take out. chinese appears to be the favourite cuisine too – a favourite across the whole country. only 3 out of the 30 cities questions didn’t crown chinese as their favourite takeaway – and of all respondents asked, 35% voted chinese as their favourite. this trend is mirrored between male and female respondents too. indian takeaways follow closely in second place with 24% of the votes – and it stole the crown as the number one favourite in aberystwyth, coventry and wolverhampton. eating out according to the sun, the average brit can spend around £288,000 in their lifetime eating out at restaurants, which many people claim is because they are simply too lazy to cook at home. whilst millennials are expected to eat out more than any other demographic, the average brit now eats out twice a week with pub grub stealing the title as their favourite option. 18-29-year olds spend double the amount of other demographics on eating out – with an average spend of £88 per week! london is the city of eating out according to the chronicle, with the capital-consuming the most indian, chinese, thai, fish and chips and pizza meals at restaurants than any other city. the south east and northern ireland aren’t far behind the big city though, whilst scotland appears to be the region that eats out the least. birmingham is also known as the curry capital with 43% of brummies claiming curry restaurants are their favourite, and 34% of londoners seem to agree. glasgow prefers authentic spanish tapas (14%), while 14% of edinburgh folk loving sushi. pub grub is one of the most popular choices in the uk – and liverpudlians couldn’t agree more; 49% would choose traditional pub grub. home cooking with busy work schedules and family life, dinner time at home has become far less formal and structured than previous decades. in 2017, just over 20% of british families said they sat down to dinner together once or twice a week, and one in five have their ‘family meals’ whilst sat in front of the television. however, some people prefer to cook their own meals at home, as they can control their own ingredients (49%). according to statista, 64% of people enjoy cooking, whilst 55% describe cooking as something they have to do but don’t. there has also been a 10% increase in the number of people preparing meals from scratch at least once a week from 2005. but which regions are most likely to cook homecooked meals? judging by how much london, the south west and northern ireland eat out, we can assume that they are the regions that are least likely to stay home and cook meals. however, scotland, wales, the north west and north east were the regions that appeared to eat out the least, leading us to the assumption that they are more likely to stay home and prepare home-cooked meals more often. the kitchen, for many, has become the heart of the home meaning we now tend to spend more time there. now that open-plan living is on the rise, cooking a meal doesn’t have to be a lonely task; you can prepare a family meal in your kitchen whilst catching up with the family. sources what is the uk’s favourite cuisine? (survey & infographic) https://trajectorypartnership.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/07/saclareport_v19final.pdf http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/food-and-drink/deliveroo-takeaway-food-most-popular-a7573141.html http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/takeaway-capital-uk-fast-food-6372818 http://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/news/takeaway-just-eat-sales-up-rise-increase-home-delivery-appetite-local-restaurants-a7713366.html https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/2893113/brits-spend-more-than-288000-eating-out-at-restaurants-in-their-lifetimes-because-were-too-lazy-to-cook http://store.mintel.com/attitudes-towards-cooking-in-the-home-uk-may-2016 https://www.statista.com/statistics/301495/attitudes-to-cooking-eating-meals-uk-great-britain https://www.bbcgoodfood.com/article/bbc-good-food-nation-survey-results http://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/health/data-regions-uk-eat-most-6404531 *collaborative feature post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:eating habitseating infoodharvey jonesleedslondonordering foodtakeawayuk related posts august 2016 degustabox review quorn meatballs and ‘getti (spaghetti) r... tips for travelling with children degustabox review plus competition/givea... grilled bell peppers drizzled with clove... sweet potato chips, tomato and cheddar c... chef paul rankin’s campaign to bring fam... boost your breakfast with sown & gr... how to prepare for a baby – the first-ye... nursery rhymes finger food creations wit... september 2015 – degustabox produc... 15 kitchen tools and equipment you will ... ravensburger big ben silhouette puzzle r... june 2014 – degustabox product rev... cauliflower pizza recipe fish & chips recipe with a twist! spooktacular fruit and veg halloween cre... turkish flatbread (gözleme) recipe 5 minute interview with charlotte tomlin... 5-ingredient sweet and zesty roast chick... 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... september 2014 – degustabox produc... august 2014 – degustabox product r... quorn cookery class at underground cooke... half term fun at ora’s cookery event january 2016 – degustabox product ... how to create an awesome birthday party ... little dish review and competition (5 go... early signs of labour – and what t... 16 weeks old – i need to get some ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok