can't get enough treehugger? sign up now and have it sent straight to your inbox. daily and weekly newsletters available. email address email is required newsletters the daily newsletter the weekly newsletter subscribe × health how to prepare for a quarantine design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows sustainability with sass design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows about contact newsletters advertisement living health how to prepare for a quarantine melissa breyer melissabreyer february 28, 2020 public domain : policemen in seattle during the influenza epidemic, december 1918. (wikimedia commons) from what food to buy to how to access your medical records, here are the practical matters to consider before a pandemic strikes. news of covid19 (doing business as coronavirus) is absolutely dominating the headlines, and doing so with a predictable mix of both alarmism and downplaying. i am not here to jump into the mosh pit of the politics of it all – i will leave that for the great gladiators of twitter. but with the centers for disease control asking families to be ready for the possibility of a “significant disruption to our lives,” it seems that some practical advice would be prudent. so let’s talk quarantine preparation. accounts from china and elsewhere tell of the challenges of being sealed into one’s home. whether or not such restrictions may land everywhere is yet to be determined. but even if mandatory quarantines are not enacted, there may be other good reasons to hole up for a while. even though for many the disease may be mild, it will not be so for everyone, and for that we all need to take responsibility. as zeynep tufekci writes in scientific american about the importance of slowing the transmission of the disease: “…the only path to flattening the curve for covid-19 is community-wide isolation: the more people stay home, the fewer people will catch the disease. the fewer people who catch the disease, the better hospitals can help those who do.” she notes, “we should prepare, not because we may feel personally at risk, but so that we can help lessen the risk for everyone. we should prepare not because we are facing a doomsday scenario out of our control, but because we can alter every aspect of this risk we face as a society.” whether it comes to mandatory quarantines or self-imposed ones – or even just being helpful by staying out of the way – here are some things to keep in mind. (and by the way, most of these work for natural disasters too!) stock the pantry unlike during a natural disaster, chances are your refrigerator will work. but having nonperishable food on hand is important, and in fact, ready.gov recommends securing a two-week supply of water and food before a pandemic. this is important should you be stuck inside, but also because available food supplies may dwindle. nonperishable food is also good because it won’t go to waste if it’s not used during dodgy times. what foods to buy think healthy and versatile: soups, grains, beans, whole grain pasta, jarred tomato sauce, olive oil, oatmeal, trail mix, nuts, nut butters, dried fruit, root vegetables, frozen fruits and vegetables – whatever your favorites are. buy in bulk when you can. see much more here: pandemic pantry: a list for eating well with humble ingredients. set up a mini farm fresh fruit and vegetables could end up being tough to get; if you’ve got a green thumb, you could set up a windowsill farm or start growing some wonderful microgreens. coffee, people, don't forget the coffee if you are anything like me, you need your morning coffee. imagine being quarantined and not having coffee? shudder. during hurricane and big blizzard warnings, i always make sure i have instant espresso powder and shelf-stable milk so that i can have coffee without electricity. since power will likely not be affected, those draconian measures might not be necessary – but do ensure you have the supplies and a way to make coffee. and some shelf-stable milk or nut milk, since refrigerated milk may be in short supply. have a stash of tea when sick, tea is your friend. it is easy to make, soothing, and hydrating. so make sure you have plenty of tea supplies on hand. if you eat honey, it has been proven to be more effective for cough than cough medicine, so make sure you have some of that as well. watch the vices during hurricane supplying, i have a friend who always stocks up on vanilla vodka. likewise, red wine may be on my hurricane supply list. alas, no-fun foreign policy magazine reminds us that, "smoking and drinking worsen the chance of pneumonia developing; try to give them up as much as you can." but indulge in the treats maybe we are not supposed to be drinking and smoking all night, but that doesn’t mean we can’t have some comfort treats. chocolate is great. or go healthier-ish with energy bars (most of which are healthy junk food, but still). if you've got kids in the house, this could be an ok time to get them some generally verboten treats. check your medications stock up on your favorite herbal remedies, and/or painkillers, cold and cough cures, stomach remedies, prescription medications, et cetera. even without a quarantine, avoiding the pharmacy will help keep you away from people who may be contagious. also don’t forget fluids with electrolytes! stock up on basic necessities what things do you buy on a regular basis? make sure you are good on those things, items like toilet paper, toothpaste, and feminine care products. buy soap if you’re going to hoard something, i vote on bar soap. handwashing with soap is crucial in preventing illness, so it’s not something you want to run out of in the midst of a pandemic. more here: everything you need to know about the ‘diy vaccine’ against illness. remember the pets for pets, be sure to stock up on food, litter, and medications. prepare for work if you are able to work remotely, make sure you and your workplace are all set up with a good messaging platform (like slack or skype) as well as a video conferring option, like zoom. set up a therapy alternative if you have regular therapy sessions, look into setting them up by phone or video conferencing. get your health records in order pre-pandemic, ready.gov recommends that people get “copies and maintain electronic versions of health records from doctors, hospitals, pharmacies and other sources and store them, for personal reference.” seems like this would be good to have on hand in case you get sick as well. go here for help getting electronic health records. set up online services like banking if you have resisted doing things like banking and shopping online, you may remain resistant. but having the option to do things like deposit checks and order cat food might come in very handy if you are prevented from leaving home. look into online activities while we usually advocate for getting offline and into real life, in times of isolation, having an accessible social network could come in handy. and i don’t mean facebook necessarily; but think about chat groups with friends or online games that you can play remotely. another great idea is to look into educational programs. what better time to get that basket-weaving certificate than while on a pandemic lockdown? stock up on the cabin staples by this i mean books, jigsaw puzzles, board games, scrabble, craft and drawing supplies, playing cards, et cetera. prepare to exercise if you don’t currently exercise at home, look for ways you can replicate your exercise inside. get a yoga mat, resistance bands, a stand that turns your normal bike into a stationary one. a new treadmill may be a bit much, but if you have been considering one, now might be the time. create a playground if you’ve got kids at home, make sure you have a place for them to bounce around a bit – they will have some energy to expend. if my teens were still tiny, i’d be searching second-hand stores for tumbling mats and a mini trampoline. and what about masks? i will turn this one over to the u.s surgeon general, who says: seriously people- stop buying masks! they are not effective in preventing general public from catching #coronavirus, but if healthcare providers can’t get them to care for sick patients, it puts them and our communities at risk! https://t.co/uxzrwxxkl9 — u.s. surgeon general (@surgeon_general) february 29, 2020 our list is by no means inclusive; and we will add to it as more things come up. hopefully this will all be in vain and the downplayers can take a victory lap. but as the cdc said, "it's not so much a question of if this will happen anymore but rather more a question of exactly when" ... so it certainly can't hurt to be prepared. helpful links: what is social distancing? at verywell.com what travelers should know about covid-19 at tripsavvy.com the right way to clean your cell phone at thespruce.com coronavirus (covid-19) and the flu: similarities and differences at verywell.com coronavirus diseases natural disasters how to prepare for a quarantine from what food to buy to how to access your medical records, here are the practical matters to consider before a pandemic strikes. related content on treehugger.com 100 years ago a flu pandemic started, killing as many as 100 million 13 crazy facts about the common cold cdc says this is one of the most important steps to avoid illness the sad slippery slope of bar soap 12 natural remedies for a stomach bug how modern, minimalist design (and washing your hands) can fight di... 8 uses for chamomile as a natural remedy 10 handy hacks for emergency situations facebook twitter pinterest please enable javascript to view the comments. most popular right now the top us states for homesteading, tiny homes, and off-grid living here's what the real patch adams has been up to common household products that can kill the coronavirus alley cat laneway house looks a lot bigger than it is jupe health is an 'immediate response to hospital overcrowding' what's hot on facebook teach your child how to read a paper map 20 things to do with chickpeas this pandemic is changing how my family eats cdc lists oil of lemon eucalyptus as comparable to deet for mosquitoes about contact newsletters rss privacy policy copyright © 2020 narrative content group. all rights reserved