wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how to check if your wordpress blog posts are ranking for the right keywords how to check if your wordpress blog posts are ranking for the right keywords last updated on november 19th, 2018 by editorial staff 232 shares share tweet share pin do you want to check if your wordpress posts are ranking for the right keywords? most beginners manually check rankings for their articles by typing keywords in google. this does not give you an accurate idea of where your articles stand for the target keyword. in this article, we will show you how to easily check if your wordpress blog posts are ranking for the right keywords. why check keyword rankings for your wordpress posts? if you follow our complete wordpress seo guide, then you will learn how to optimize each article on your website for specific keywords. this helps you get more traffic to your website. most beginners simply search on google to see if their posts are appearing for those keywords. even then, they usually only check the first page or probably the second page at best. the issue is that sometimes your article might be ranking way below the first two pages or worst it may not even be ranking for the keyword that you want. if you rely on manually checking your keyword rankings, then you are missing out useful information that you can use to improve your seo rankings and increasing traffic. that being said, let’s take a look at how to properly check keyword rankings for your wordpress blog posts. video tutorial subscribe to wpbeginner if you don’t want to watch the video tutorial, then you can continue reading the text version below: 1. semrush semrush is one of the best seo and keyword research tool on the market. it is a comprehensive seo suite with all the useful tools you’ll need. it comes with a powerful organic research tool that can show keyword rankings for any domain name. you don’t need to type in urls for individual articles. it will automatically fetch results for all urls of that domain name. simply enter the domain name you want to look up and semrush will get a ton of information. after that, click on the organic research tab to view the full list of all keywords your website is ranking for. you can sort the results by position, url, traffic, and more. you can also export the results to a csv file and research offline using your favorite spreadsheet program. you can also track specific keywords with semrush, and they track those keywords on your dashboard, so you can instantly see their performance. semrush can do the same things for any domain name which means you can enter your competitor’s domain name and see which keywords they are ranking for. you will also be able to see their paid search traffic, paid keywords, and other useful information that you can utilize to outrank them. 2. google search console google search console (formerly webmasters tools) is a set of tools offered by google to help webmasters improve their website for search. see our guide on how to add your website to google search console. you can see your website’s performance in search results, impressions, click through rate, position, and more. it also allows you to submit xml sitemap which helps google crawl your website more intelligently. to view your keyword positions, click on the performance report and then click on average position score. search console will now load your reports with average position column included. next, you need to scroll down a bit to see the full list of keywords your site ranks for. next to each keyword, you will see how many clicks it gets, impressions, and position in search results. you can sort the results by clicks, impressions, and position columns. by sorting using position, you will be able to see your top ranking keywords. as you scroll down, you will be able to see keywords where your site appears deeper in search results. you can also export this data and open it with your favorite spreadsheet software. 3. ahrefs ahrefs is another popular seo tool among professional marketers. it comes with an easy to use interface and tries to make information understandable even for new users. simply enter your website domain name in the search box, and it will create a neatly organized report with beautiful graphs and charts. you will find all your keyword rankings under the organic keywords report. next to each keyword, you’ll be able to see its search volume, keyword ranking position, keyword density, and more. using keyword rankings to get more traffic in wordpress now that you have learned how to check keyword rankings for your wordpress site, let’s talk about improving your rankings. analyzing which keywords need improvement it’s important to note that not all keywords are created equal. for example, ranking #5 on a high traffic keyword is way better than ranking #1 for a low traffic keyword. there are certain aspects to this data which you may want to consider. for example, appearing on #1 position may not always bring you the most traffic. you will see some of your keywords ranking pretty well but not getting significant clicks or impressions. during this research, you might also find some surprise keywords that you didn’t know you were ranking for. if these keywords have significant impressions and search volumes, then you should see if you can make strategic changes to your content to improve rankings for those keywords as well. improving rankings for specific keywords after you have decided which keywords you will be working on, you can go ahead and see which of your articles are ranking on those keywords and what you can to optimize them better. here are a few tips: keyword density: see how many times the keyword appears in your content. you can do that using yoast seo plugin. simply enter the ‘focus keyword’ in seo meta box and it will show you the analysis including the keyword density. outdated information your article can be old, not have enough content, or contains outdated information. updating it with newer information and just improving the content can give it an seo boost. internal linking internal linking is when you link an article from other pages of your site. linking to an article in other related content can give it an seo bump. use your target keyword as the anchor text when linking to it from other articles on your website. for more details on this topic, please see our article on how to optimize your wordpress blog posts for seo. learn what your visitors are doing on your website semrush and google search console can help you find your keyword positions, but they can’t show you how many visitors are coming to your articles, where they are from, and what they do when they are on your website. all of this information is crucial when planning your content strategy to rank for certain keywords. this is where google analytics comes in. it shows you the number of pageviews for your articles, your top content, your visitor information, and more. google analytics can be difficult to setup for beginners, that’s why we recommend using monsterinsights. it is a google analytics plugin for wordpress that will help you easily install google analytics and see all reports inside your wordpress dashboard. we hope this article helped you check if your wordpress posts are ranking for the right keywords. you may also want to see our guide on actionable tips to drive traffic to a new wordpress site. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 232 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 6 commentsleave a reply khairunissa virani says: jun 8, 2019 at 8:42 am thank you for the great article. one another way to find is just type in the keywords in google and if you are ranking your blog post will show. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 10, 2019 at 12:49 pm that can sometimes work but if you’re logged in your cookies and search history can make your site appear higher for yourself than for other people. reply zahid dar says: may 9, 2019 at 1:49 pm it helped me a lot. i just started an automotive blog reply wpbeginner support says: may 10, 2019 at 11:02 am glad our article could help reply festus ighalo says: mar 22, 2019 at 8:15 am thank you very much for this detailed explanation. please i have a question, from the keyword position, how do i know which page on google my post is appearing? like from your screenshot i saw 1.9 as the position, how do you interpret that 1.9? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 22, 2019 at 10:37 am that number is the average position for that result on your site based on multiple searches reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) aweber coupon get 100% off for your first month with aweber. start your first month for free. designevo coupon get 25% off on designevo premium logo making service. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.