skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » tutorial » how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to fix the internal server error in wordpress september 30, 2016 rafay ansari tutorial 7 comments if you’ve ever encountered sporadic errors in your wordpress site then you’ve come to the right place. wordpress errors can be quite infuriating, but there’s always a way to overcome them – and in most cases, a several different solutions exist. some users find that on trying to access their wordpress admin panel, they’re presented with an internal server error that goes something like this: the server encountered an internal error or misconfiguration and was unable to complete your request. this particular error has people racking their brains out in hopes of figuring out what’s wrong with their site and how they can fix it. in this article, i’ll go over a few simple solutions you can try out to diagnose the error and resolve it. let’s get right to it! how does this error occur? as the name suggests, internal server errors aren’t wordpress-specific errors. in fact, they can occur due to a fault with other services and software running on the same server as your wordpress site. assuming you’re hosting on a shared server, internal server error in wordpress is more common than you might think. the error itself and the message it displays is not specific in the very least. there’s practically no way of finding out exactly how the error came to be from reading the internal server error message. however, when this error occurs on a wordpress site, we can narrow down its causes to: functions of themes. functions of plugins. corrupted .htaccess files. php memory limit reached. more often than not, a user will be trying to access their wordpress admin area when they come across the internal server error. in such cases, it’s common for the rest of the website to work as usual while access to the site’s admin area is restricted. now let’s look at a few ways we can fix this issue. how to fix the internal server error as we discussed above, there’s no real way of finding out exactly what’s wrong with your wordpress site and why it’s giving an internal server error every time you try to login to the wordpress admin area. it is common sense to take a method and try it. if it fails, admit it frankly and try another. but above all, try something. – franklin d. roosevelt as mr. roosevelt ever so delicately puts it, we’ll apply the trial and error approach step-by-step to resolve this issue. if one method doesn’t fix it, move on to the next! 1. ensure .htaccess file works properly the first thing we’re going to do is ensure our wordpress site’s .htaccess file isn’t corrupt and is doing what it’s intended to do. follow these simple steps to check for your .htaccess file’s status: login to your wordpress site’s ftp client. navigate to the file manager under the files find your site’s .htaccess file and rename it e.g. .htaccess_original try accessing your website and the wordpress admin area. if everything works fine now, navigate to settings > permalinks from your site’s dashboard. click the save button. by saving these settings, you’ll generate a new .htaccess file that contains the correct rewrite rules. these new rules will guarantee that your site’s post pages don’t return errors when they’re accessed. if your .htaccess file was causing the internal server error, it should be fixed now. however, if you found the error was still in place on re-loading your site and wordpress admin area, then move on to the next step in which we’ll show you how to increase your site’s php memory limit. 2. increase php memory limit if the internal server error issue persists even after you’ve checked your .htaccess file then it could be because you’re hitting the memory limit. often times when this is the case, you’ll also come across an error that reads: the uploaded file exceeds the upload_max_filesize directive in php.ini when you’re trying to upload a file to your media library. or perhaps it could be something more like this: fatal error: allowed memory size of 1234567 bytes exhausted (tried to allocate 87654321 bytes) in /home/your-username/public_html/wp-includes/plugin.php on line 1234 those of you who encounter this error every time you try logging into your site’s admin panel or uploading a file/image to your wordpress site can follow any of the following methods to increase the php memory limit. (don’t let the codes scare you, i promise it’s not that hard!) editing your wp-config.php file by adding this one line of code to your wordpress site’s wp-config.php file, you can increase the memory limit to a more suitable value. in the following steps, i’ve increased it to 64m (m stands for megabytes). login to your wordpress site’s ftp client. navigate to your site’s root directory and find the wp-config.php file. inside the <?php tag, add the following line of code: https://gist.github.com/eb4f5df5608d6cb2eabe this simple, one-liner is my go-to method whenever i have to increase the memory limit — it works every time! updating the php.ini file if you have trouble finding the wp-config.php file, try looking for the php.ini file instead! this method goes a bit deeper into the memory limit by allowing you to increase several different values at the same time. let’s take a look. login to your cpanel and navigate to files > file manager. find the wp-admin folder and locate your php.ini file. (if the file doesn’t exist, create one by clicking on the new file button.) once you’ve found/created the file, open it and edit/add the following lines of code: https://gist.github.com/a6c55df152a5275550ed save the updated file and clear your browser’s cache. editing the .htaccess file assuming you were unable to locate the wp-config.php file or the php.ini file you can always alter the old .htaccess file by adding a few lines of code at the bottom. this method always works for me! login to your wordpress site’s ftp client. navigate to the file manager under the files find your site’s .htaccess file and edit/add the following code at the end of the file: https://gist.github.com/19856b2d5e8ad402e8b0 save the updated file and clear your browser’s cache. if you’re still not sure about getting into your site’s core files and updating them for whatever reason, you can alternatively install the increase max upload filesize plugin to get the job done. these changes are easy to incorporate and will hopefully solve the internal server error you’re experiencing. once you’re done increasing the php memory limit using any one of the three steps outlined above, try re-loading your wordpress site and accessing the admin area. if you’re still prompted with the error screen then get ready for the next step — things are about to get serious now. 3. deactivate your plugins at this stage, it’s safe to assume that you’re in for a lot of work. there’s a high chance that the error is caused by a plugin that you have installed on your wordpress site. even plugins with great reviews and five-star ratings can be the root cause in this scenario. here’s how: scenario 1: the plugin isn’t compatible with your version of wordpress. scenario 2: the plugin isn’t compatible with the theme you’re running. scenario 3: the plugin isn’t compatible with another plugin you have installed. plugins extend and add to the functionality of your wordpress site. they’re fun to install, they save you a ton of time and make work super easy. the only problem is that they might end up causing errors — no matter how well they score. there is no pragmatic approach or a carefully laid out formula you can follow to avoid running into an internal server error with plugins. ironically enough, finding such an error caused by a faulty plugin-plugin or plugin-theme combination is a trial and error technique in itself! to resolve this issue, you’ll have to deactivate all of the plugins you have installed on your site and then activate them one by one all over again. let’s simplify the process and give it some logical structure so it doesn’t seem as chaotic: using the wordpress dashboard the easiest way to deactivate all of your plugins is through your wordpress dashboard. deactivate plugins from your wordpress dashboard. login to your wordpress site’s dashboard. navigate to plugins > installed plugins. click the deactivate link below each plugin. however, if you can’t access your wordpress dashboard, you can deactivate the plugins through an ftp client. here’s how: using the ftp client deactivating plugins using the ftp client isn’t as easy as through the dashboard but it’s entirely possible. renaming the plugins folder. login to your site’s ftp client or cpanel. navigate to the /wp-content/ folder. find the plugins folder and rename it to deactivated-plugins. once you do this, all of your site’s plugins will be deactivate. this approach is much faster but requires you logging into an ftp client or the file manager provided by your hosting service. once you’ve deactivated all of the plugins using either of the above-mentioned methods, it’s time to go back to your wordpress dashboard and activate them again. login to your wordpress site’s dashboard. navigate to plugins > installed plugins. starting from the top, click the activate link below the first plugin. reload your site and admin area to ensure it still works. if your site and admin area work i.e. they don’t give an internal server error, continue to activate the next plugin. if your site or admin area crashes, you’ll know that the last activated plugin is causing the internal server error. once you find the faulty plugin, deactivate it once again and report it to the plugin’s author, if possible, along with a list of plugins you have installed, the theme you’re currently running and your wordpress site’s version. note: it’s important that you re-activate all of your plugins one by one even after you’ve found the faulty plugin. it’s possible that more than one plugin caused the error due to incompatibility issues. 3. contact your hosting provider here you are seemingly all out of options to fix the dreadful internal server error on your wordpress site. what do you do when you can’t do something about it yourself? if you recall, we started out by explaining what an internal server error actually is and stated that it occurs on the server level. the best thing to do at this stage is contact your hosting provider and report the issue to them. your hosting providers have access to the server error logs on which your wordpress site is hosted. they can go through the logs, identify when and how the issue occurred and hopefully do something about it. there are a few things you should definitely mention in your email to the hosting provider: your website’s url. when you first came across the internal server error. what you were trying to access when you came across the error e.g. the website, the admin area, etc. the list of plugins you have installed on your site. the theme you’re currently running. the version of your wordpress site. how you’ve tried to rectify the problem yourself. between the information you give and whatever they find in the server error logs, you can rest assured that your site will be up and running without any errors in no time. in the worst case, if they are unable to solve the problem, they’ll, at least, be able to offer you advice and suggest appropriate measures you can take to resolve the issue altogether. wrapping it up there you have it — three simple, sequential techniques you can adopt to solve the internal server error on your wordpress site. the internal server error is quite common in wordpress sites, especially if your site is hosted on a shared platform. we provided three quick solutions to fix the error and depending upon the root cause, one of them should work for you. hopefully, you’re in a better place now to take things further and try out the techniques explained in this article. have you ever encountered the internal server error? how did you fix it? did any of the techniques we detailed above help you resolve the issue? let us know in the comments section below! similar error you might cafe in wordpress is “error establishing a database connection” you can read more about this error on how ti fix it here. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. error pageserver error share this share tweet pin it share related posts 20 resources for bootstrap 4 – getting started with the latest version bootstrap is known as the world's most utilized web development framework. bootstrap websites are literally… list of top free css3, jquery & html5 search form examples and tutorials 2019 a search box is one of the prime components of website that define and enhance… how to find out what theme a wordpress website is using? in my last post, i discussed how you can find out if a website is… what is the size of the instagram picture in pixels? [updated] instagram among the most popular social networks today. it has over 300 million active users… your indispensable guide to featured images in wordpress articles with images get 94% more views than those without and the first image your… 30 photoshop tutorials for custom text effects 2019 although less emphasized in web design, text effects play a big role in the experience… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: what causes wordpress website downtime? what does it cost your business and brand? next post: 20 parallax scrolling tutorials with jquery & html5 – 2017 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×