kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! how do you help a grieving friend? posted by jason kottke oct 18, 2018 one answer to the question of “how do i help a grieving friend?” is to acknowledge their circumstances…to “join them in their pain” instead of trying to take it away from them. as megan devine says in this video: cheering people up, telling them to be strong and persevere, helping them move on…it doesn’t actually work. it’s kind of a puzzle. it seems counterintuitive, but the way to help someone feel better is to let them be in pain. one of the odd things about getting older (and hopefully wiser) is that you stop chuckling at cliches and start to acknowledge their deep truths. a recent example of this for me is “the only way out is through”. as devine notes, in this video and her book it’s ok that you’re not ok, there’s no shortcut for dealing with pain…you have to go through it to move past it. in a new ted podcast, writer elizabeth gilbert talked about the grief she felt when her partner and longtime best friend rayya elias was diagnosed with and died from cancer. grief… happens upon you, it’s bigger than you. there is a humility that you have to step into, where you surrender to being moved through the landscape of grief by grief itself. and it has its own timeframe, it has its own itinerary with you, it has its own power over you, and it will come when it comes. and when it comes, it’s a bow-down. it’s a carve-out. and it comes when it wants to, and it carves you out — it comes in the middle of the night, comes in the middle of the day, comes in the middle of a meeting, comes in the middle of a meal. it arrives — it’s this tremendously forceful arrival and it cannot be resisted without you suffering more… the posture that you take is you hit your knees in absolute humility and you let it rock you until it is done with you. and it will be done with you, eventually. and when it is done, it will leave. but to stiffen, to resist, and to fight it is to hurt yourself. the only way out is through. update: when gary andrews’ wife joy died, he documented his pain and his family’s grief through a daily doodle posted to twitter. (thx, matt) more about... books elizabeth gilbert it’s ok that you’re not ok megan devine video ads via carbon kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives