wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how to easily embed videos in wordpress blog posts how to easily embed videos in wordpress blog posts last updated on march 8th, 2019 by editorial staff 581 shares share tweet share pin do you want to embed videos in your wordpress blog posts? videos bring life to your website, and they are a great way to increase user engagement. wordpress makes it super easy to embed videos from video hosting sites like youtube, vimeo, facebook, twitter, and many others. in this beginner’s guide, we will show you how to easily embed videos in wordpress blog posts, pages, and sidebar widgets. how to embed videos in wordpress blog posts and pages wordpress comes with a great feature called auto-embeds which allows your website to automatically get the embed code from popular video hosting services like youtube, vimeo, etc. all you need to do is paste the video url into the wordpress editor. for example, you can copy the youtube url for a video that you want to embed. next, edit the wordpress post or page where you want to add the video, and simply paste the url in the content area. as soon as you paste the video url, wordpress will fetch the embed code and display the youtube video inside the content editor. you can now save your post and click on the preview button to see the embedded video in your blog post. wasn’t that easy? after you have added the video, you can change its settings from the block toolbar and settings column on the right. you can adjust the video width, make it full-width, change alignment, and more. you can also add a caption and preserve the video’s aspect ratio on mobile devices. wordpress can only do auto-embeds for white-listed video services. for other websites, you will still have to obtain the embed code and then paste it in your blog posts. here is a list of white-listed video services for auto embeds in wordpress: amazon animoto cloudup collegehumor crowdsignal dailymotion facebook flickr hulu imgur instagram issuu kickstarter meetup.com mixcloud reddit reverbnation screencast scribd slideshare smugmug someecards soundcloud speaker deck spotify ted tumblr twitter videopress vimeo wordpress.tv youtube if you want to add a video from a website outside this list, then you will need the full html embed code for the video. simply copy the html code provided by the video website and paste it inside a ‘custom html’ block in the editor. embed videos in wordpress using old classic editor if you are still using the old wordpress classic editor, then you can embed the videos the same way. simply copy the url from a video hosting service like youtube, and paste it in the editor. if you are using the visual editor, then you will see a preview of the video. however, you will not be able to use the width adjustment and other options that you can use in the new wordpress block editor. how to embed videos in wordpress sidebar widgets just like a wordpress page or post, you can also embed videos in wordpress sidebar widgets. simply go to appearance » widgets page and add the ‘text’ widget to a sidebar. see our article on how to add and use widgets in wordpress. inside the widget settings, you need to paste the video url in the content area. wordpress will automatically fetch the embed code and display the video preview. don’t forget to click on the ‘save’ button to store your widget settings. you can now visit your website to see the video embed in the wordpress sidebar widget. why can’t i upload the videos to wordpress? well you can, but we do not recommend you to do so. most small blogs use shared wordpress hosting accounts, and videos can take up a lot of server resources. if your video got tons of traffic, then your website is more likely to crash. secondly, you are missing out the traffic from youtube users. youtube is not only the biggest video hosting site, but it is also the world’s second most popular search engine, and the second most popular social network right after facebook. if you don’t want to upload your videos to youtube, then you can try vimeo or dailymotion. see our comparison of youtube vs vimeo to see which platform is better for your needs. for more on this topic, take a look at our article on why you should never upload a video to wordpress. wordpress video embed plugins by default, you don’t need to use a plugin to embed videos in wordpress. however, you may want to use plugins to improve video viewing experience on your website. following are a few plugins that you may want to try. 1. youtube subscribe bar youtube subscribe bar shows a youtube subscribe button below your youtube video embeds in wordpress. it also fetches your youtube subscriber count to add social proof and encourage more users to subscribe. we first created it to promote wpbeginner’s youtube channel on this website. many of our users asked us to share how we did this, so we decided to release it as a free plugin. 2. envira gallery by default, wordpress does not come with embedded video gallery feature. if you wanted to show a video gallery on a page, then you’ll need a plugin to do that. envira gallery is one of the best photo gallery plugins for wordpress. it also comes with a videos addon which allows you to create beautiful video galleries with lightbox popup support. 3. lazy load for videos video embeds load scripts from external websites, which has a small impact on page load speed and performance. lazy load for videos solves this problem by only loading the video image on page load. it loads embed code only when the user clicks on the play button. see our tutorial on how to add lazy load for videos in wordpress. we hope this article helped you learn how to easily embed videos in wordpress blog posts. you may also want to see our list of the must have wordpress plugins for all websites. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 581 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 95 commentsleave a reply naomi says: sep 9, 2019 at 5:33 am thank you for the information. may god bless you! reply wpbeginner support says: sep 9, 2019 at 10:16 am you’re welcome, glad you like our content reply hjk says: aug 21, 2019 at 5:13 pm hi, i’ve used the embed code in the html editor then when i switch back to visual it appears, however when i try to preview the post the video does not show up at all. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 22, 2019 at 9:40 am if it is only when trying to preview the post, you may want to try saving your draft beforehand to ensure that it is not due to the preview not being saved properly reply arpit says: aug 5, 2019 at 2:17 am really useful information. can you please help me to know, if i add video on wordpress post will effect on site speed or particular post speed. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 5, 2019 at 11:50 am for our opinion on that, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/why-you-should-never-upload-a-video-to-wordpress/ reply jason says: jun 8, 2019 at 6:41 pm “ll you need to do is paste the video url into the wordpress editor.” what a ie. even putting the youtube link into the embed block doesn’t work. i wish wordpress would stop giving incorrect directions. nothing seems to work when it comes to putting a simple short youtube link (of my own 2 minute video into wordpress. wp? …. idk about this. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 10, 2019 at 12:58 pm you may have a plugin or similar that could be preventing the embed from being added correctly, have you tried using the video block that was added with the gutenberg/block editor? reply jeffrey christian says: jun 5, 2019 at 3:57 pm i’m trying to embed a link from vimeo but come up with the following error: sorry, this content could not be embedded. there is no issue with the video, so not sure why there’s an error. any suggestions would be appreciated! reply wpbeginner support says: jun 6, 2019 at 10:26 am if this method didn’t work, have you tried the video block to embed using that? if the error is in a vimeo embed then the video owner may not allow embedding of the video. reply suzanne dunaway says: may 5, 2019 at 3:59 am i cannot get this to work at all and i have a blog with 10,000 followers so far. why won’t this work on my wordpress editing page?????? reply wpbeginner support says: may 6, 2019 at 2:17 pm if you’re using the new block editor then there is an embed or a video block that you can use if that is the issue. reply gordana says: dec 3, 2018 at 2:22 pm i tried to embed url from yotube, it does work but copied video seems too large. i wanted smaller feature and i couldn’t get it smaller in no possible way. i tried same from vimeo and was satisfied with the size. do you have any similar experiences? reply ashley says: nov 8, 2018 at 11:17 am i am pasting in the url for our youtube video and it does not auto embed. i did this exact process twice yesterday with no problems. tried the embed code, logged out and logged back in but it still won’t auto embed. any ideas as to why this has suddenly stopped working? reply david says: oct 1, 2018 at 12:31 pm well what do you do when you you insert the url, the image auto generates and then clips the rest of the paragraph instead of adjusting to fit? reply muhammad junaid says: aug 17, 2018 at 8:23 am i am using elementor to add youtube video.secondly,does it violate copyright rule? reply civali says: aug 12, 2018 at 8:30 am please, how to set autoplay and sound off in video url? reply tyoaan calistus says: aug 2, 2018 at 7:24 pm when i embed a youtube code and add on my post, the button on click on and watch the video is usually not in the middle of the post.. how do i fix that pls? reply sejal says: may 18, 2018 at 4:55 am hi..i copied the youtube url and it shows properly on the desktop version but doesnt show anything in the mobile version? am i doing something wrong? reply suzanne eutsler says: may 16, 2018 at 8:14 pm i am embedding facebook live videos into our ministry website and am trying to figure out spacing issues. if you look at the link below, you’ll notice that underneath the video some of the text is cut off and when you look at it on an iphone you’ll notice there’s a ton of white space after each video. how do i set it to be automatic that it just fits? is there a way? i’d like it to show up correctly regardless of the pc or iphone or android etc. help!!!! please reply wpbeginner support says: may 17, 2018 at 4:24 am hi suzanne, you will have to use inspect tool to find out css causing extra white space and adjust it by adding custom css. reply isaac says: may 16, 2018 at 11:42 am pls how can i post non-youtube videos on my wordpress page reply erin says: apr 13, 2018 at 11:34 am do i have to have wordpress premium to be able to do this? reply tom minkler says: apr 10, 2018 at 7:35 am what if a video is shared to facebook from instagram, then i try to put it in wordpress post? for awhile, pasting the fb link into the visual editor was working fine, but now it just shows the link. i don’t think those past videos that work were from instagram, i went back and looked and one was shared from one facebook page to another but the original doesn’t say it is from instagram. does it matter? thanks for your help. reply judy mitchell says: apr 6, 2018 at 4:13 am perfect – thanks! reply alexander says: mar 31, 2018 at 7:38 am thank you very much wpbeginner for this awsome post as usual it was so usefull and i have another question my worpress site does not display properly on smartphones and android device what could be the problem ? reply riyaz khan says: feb 18, 2018 at 12:52 pm hi, i want to develop a site where i am allowing users to upload the videos in their profile dynamically and same can be seen by other member, kind of facebook. is there any plugins for the same? reply kim says: jan 6, 2018 at 11:30 am hi wp beginner! first off my wordpress is a localhost. i’ve uploaded the video by adding media. (it shows up in my media library) however, when i put it in a post it starts by looking like it will play then goes black as says: media error: format(s) not supported or source(s) not found then it gives a download link. is there anyway to just embed the video without giving a download link? the video is an mp4. any help would be great! thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 6, 2018 at 5:47 pm hi kim, test your video in different browsers if it still shows error then your video file may not be encoded properly. reply hedi putra says: dec 3, 2017 at 12:34 am how to embed video on worpdress without iframe? can i use div code to embed? reply zeeshan zafar says: oct 26, 2017 at 5:53 am i have added youtube link in my site post but unfortunately it is not showing. i have tried many things to make it visible but no success. on load iframe load but there is nothing in the body tag of iframe. please help…. reply jeg says: nov 29, 2017 at 10:14 pm i think in 4.9 you may need to add the link to the media library and then paste it from there reply jeg says: nov 29, 2017 at 10:28 pm sorry this is not correct. instead i suggest you delete your post and create a new one. i was having a similar problem and that is how i fixed it. reply jennifer says: sep 13, 2017 at 10:24 pm i was able to embed my video from facebook live, and everything appears to be working perfectly except there is no audio. what can i do? reply milliana says: sep 4, 2017 at 1:32 am so how then do we use the embed code for archive.org wp will not let me use the internet archive iframe any more since it has updated. this is a problem! do you have a work-around? reply thien tam says: dec 28, 2017 at 2:23 am i am using wp 4.9. and it is ok to embed audio and video from archive.org. just put the file between embed code. like this: your video or audio link here reply wpbeginner support says: dec 28, 2017 at 5:59 am hi thien, yes, it is ok to embed audio and video from archive.org. reply alex says: mar 26, 2017 at 3:50 pm this does not work in the category text. is it possible also here? reply ilia says: mar 14, 2017 at 1:57 pm hello! is there a way to upload a boomerang from my iphone to a post on my wp blog? reply mac says: mar 5, 2017 at 6:41 pm hello, i’m trying to include a video on my wordpress post. i copy the url (url only, not the embed code) from my vimeo link and paste it onto the post editor on its own line. it is not a hyperlink. after saving & updating the post, i go to look at the post and all i see is the text of the vimeo url (no video). what am i doing wrong? fyi this is my own video on vimeo; there are no privacy settings and it can be shared. thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 7, 2017 at 3:58 pm hi mac, try switching to a default theme and disable all plugins, see if this resolves your issue. you can also try this shortcode [embed width="123" height="456"]your video url here[/embed]
 reply vivek darji says: feb 6, 2017 at 12:19 am hello wpbegginer how to increase traffic on photography site? without any content because my friend start a photography blog he was update only photos in blog how to improve that blog? reply guust says: feb 2, 2017 at 4:50 pm just a note to anybody thinking of just adding videos to explain things rather than explaining with written words. videos with spoken explanations only are not accessible to hearing impaired people and might also be difficult for visitors to your site who do not speak the same language as the language used in the video. and videos cannot be read by screen readers for the bling. so make sure to add subtitles and also provide screen reader accessible content if you want or need your site to be accessible. cheers reply michelle says: jan 17, 2017 at 9:22 pm hello, i’ve just embed a youtube video on my wordpress site and it plays from that webpage on a desktop/leptop. however, when i access the webpage from my mobile device, when i play the video it opens it up in the youtube app instead of staying on my website. i don’t want viewers to leave the webpage i’ve embed the video on while on mobile devices. is there anyway to ensure viewers will not leave my site while on a mobile device and watching my video? reply hassin says: dec 22, 2016 at 1:29 pm is it possible that i could upload a video on my homepage. this is my wordpress blog i want to change the video that is on the bottom of my page but i can’t change it, please help me. it is entered through videopress reply paul holmes says: nov 6, 2016 at 9:45 am hi kathy, i’m having problems with vimeo embed codes. i have copied and pasted the vimeo embed code onto my website on the word press page but, when i click update and view changes all i see is the vimeo embed code and not the video. it isn’t showing the video on my word press page just the embed code? look forward to your reply thak you regards paul reply wpbeginner support says: nov 6, 2016 at 8:20 pm you can add a vimeo video by simply entering the url of the video page. no need to add embed code. reply kathy says: feb 2, 2016 at 8:23 pm i am having great difficulty getting a video to post on my wordpress blog. i’ve loaded it up to my youtube channel and then copy the url from there. i paste into my newpost, taking care to not have anything else on that same line. the video pops up in the edit box, but will not show on my blog when i come in from the outside, like any of you would do. i’ve reviewed bunches of training sites that all say i am doing this correctly, and yet it won’t show. i called godaddy, since they are my blog host, but to no avail. they couldn’t help. i even tried using the embed code and got the same results. does anyone have any suggestions? reply jeanne says: jan 26, 2016 at 9:12 am thank you for this video. seems simple enough, but the video i want to embed in my word press template is from a news station’s website. it’s not on the white list and although you said we would have to use the embed code instead, you did not provide a link to how to use the embed code. reply cory says: aug 5, 2015 at 12:44 pm this was helpful, but i’m an idiot and need every single step spelled out for me…haha! what may be helpful for others looking for the solution, is more details on the link that you actually use on the wordpress page. it’s shown in the video but isn’t specifically explained. don’t use the links that youtube gives you in the “share” option. instead, copy and paste the actual url that is in your address bar of your browser. reply erin tallman says: oct 10, 2016 at 6:30 am agreed. i’m looking for more advanced options, so this actually wasn’t very helpful reply micheal smith says: apr 4, 2015 at 3:04 pm where can i find website to post embed look like this reply hazel andrews says: feb 24, 2015 at 10:10 am i’ve got the video embedded on my site. i’ve even set a thumbnail as a featured image! but on my blog page it shows both the thumbanil and the video when i just want the featured image to show up on the ‘recent posts’ bit. how do i do that? reply lyn says: jan 22, 2015 at 12:29 pm i did this and it worked but i noticed that the email that gets sent to my followers do not show the videos. they would have to click on my actual website in order to see the videos. does anyone else have this problem and how do you fix that? thanks! reply kas sommers says: sep 5, 2015 at 12:38 pm did you ever get an answer to this? i have the same problem. the email sent to followers doesn’t even show a broken link, people have no way of even knowing there is a video there that they can’t see. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 6, 2015 at 1:38 pm lyn and kas, which plugin or service you are using to send out emails to your subscribers? reply b. noz urbina says: oct 30, 2014 at 3:51 pm when i do vimeo, the player doesn’t shrink to fit the div of my post, so it’s cropped one third of the player off the right hand side. reply clare says: oct 12, 2014 at 10:56 am i tried the instructions here and it didn’t work. i then tried what someone else suggested which is copying it elsewhere, into a document, and then copy and pasting that into wordpress – apparently that worked for others. didn’t work for me. i then simple copy and paste the basic url into the post, no ’embed’ business, and voila! hopefully, it does actually work properly, so far so good reply bruce fulford says: jul 23, 2014 at 5:54 pm i have successfully embedded two videos from youtube but views on wp are not reported in my youtube stats. do you know why? reply jakarri demery says: sep 29, 2014 at 12:53 am make sure you embed the video and not copy and past the link from the platform you are using reply surangika senanayake says: may 28, 2014 at 1:48 am my insert/edit video icon doesn’t work. can somebody help me please? reply masauko says: may 26, 2014 at 5:19 pm thanks for the post. it just worked after i had tried several plugins but failed. but the thumnail is too large for my theme. the video therefore distorts homepage appearence. how can i minimise the size of the thumnail reply sarahzigler says: may 25, 2014 at 5:13 pm confused! reply dave says: may 16, 2014 at 1:50 am whoa. i thought there would be more to it! it works! just like that. thanks a lot. reply cathal says: mar 21, 2014 at 7:51 am the link for the youtube video does not work! anyway, its ironic that you are showing how to embed a video, and the video you show is only a link, not an embedded video??? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 21, 2014 at 3:40 pm the link does not work, because it is not a valid link. it is an example of how to paste a link in a post to embed a youtube video. if you are interested in our youtube videos please check out our youtube channel. reply sutherland boswell says: feb 10, 2014 at 9:06 pm simple is better and this is as simple as it gets. i love oembed! reply james says: oct 10, 2013 at 7:14 am if you could instruct me in english perhaps i may understand. how do i know whether it is hyperlinked or not? reply wpbeginner support says: oct 11, 2013 at 4:25 pm the videos you embed on your site are not exactly hyperlinked. instead, they are opened from youtube with in an iframe on your site. reply poed says: mar 12, 2013 at 9:27 am not worth a damn. how about people that don’t want to be a youtube whore? reply editorial staff says: mar 12, 2013 at 12:57 pm you can use vimeo, or one of the many other platforms that wordpress has built-in oembed support. http://codex.wordpress.org/embeds#okay.2c_so_what_sites_can_i_embed_from.3f reply « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) aweber coupon get 100% off for your first month with aweber. start your first month for free. designevo coupon get 25% off on designevo premium logo making service. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.