wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » themes » how to find and translate a translation ready wordpress theme how to find and translate a translation ready wordpress theme last updated on september 17th, 2013 by editorial staff 40 shares share tweet share pin wordpress is the most popular open source content management system in the world. it is used by hundreds of millions of users to create websites in many different languages. recently, one of our users asked us how they can translate a wordpress theme into their local language. wordpress itself is available in many languages, and there are also numerous wordpress themes and plugins that have translations for multiple languages. most of the time, these translations are done by users like yourself. most wordpress themes and plugin authors welcome community users to help translate their work into other languages. in this article we will show you how to find and translate a translation ready wordpress theme. finding a translation ready wordpress theme even though wordpress has great support for creating websites in any language, theme developers may not find it necessary to create translation ready themes. if you are going to create a website in a language other than english, then you need to make sure that the theme you are purchasing or downloading is translation ready. if you go to the wordpress theme directory’s tag filter interface, then you will see a list of option, which are actually tags theme developers have added to their themes. check the box next to translation ready option. if you are going to translate your theme into a right-to-left language like arabic, hebrew, and persian, then you should also check rtl-language-support option. click on the find themes button, and you will see the results that match your query. you can further narrow down your search by checking other options in the tag filter. most good commercial themes and frameworks are also translation ready. however if you are unsure, then you can always ask them before making your purchase. how to translate a wordpress theme after you have found a translation ready wordpress theme, download the theme on your computer and extract the theme files. in the extracted files, you will find languages folder. this folder should have a pot file, or in some cases there might be a .po or .mo file. what are .pot .po and .mo files wordpress and wordpress themes use a system called gettext for translations, localization and internationalization. in gettext the programmers use gettext calls for every translatable area of the program. these calls are then collected in a pot file. so basically a pot file is a template of translatable strings in a program. using the pot file, translators then generate a .po (portable object) file for their language. the name of the file refers to the language it is for. for example, a french translation file would be named fr_fr.po. basically this is the file that you will be translating. lastly the .mo files are the machine readable format of the .po file. it is generated from the .po file, so you don’t need to create it. translating using poedit you can simply edit .pot and .po files in any text editor of your choice. most linux based distributions come pre-installed with command line tools that can be used to generate .mo files. however, since you are just starting out with localization, it is highly recommended that you use a gettext editor. in this tutorial, we will show you how to translate a wordpress theme using poedit, which is a gettext editor available for windows, mac and linux. it is very easy to use and will help you quickly translate your wordpress theme without breaking translation files. first thing you need to do is install poedit. if your theme came with a .pot file, then go to file » new catalogue from pot file…. select the pot file that came with your theme. when you open the pot file, poedit will show you another dialogue box asking information about the project. the most important field here is language. when you fill in the catalog properties box, poedit will ask you for your saving preference of the translation file. the translation file will be saved with a .po extension. the name of the translation file is very important. the format is to save it in two letter language_country code. for example, a french translation for france should be saved as fr_fr.po, an arabic translation for egypt will be saved as ar_eg.po, and an english translation for united kingdom will be saved as en_uk. you can find your country and language code here. after saving your file, you are now ready to translate your wordpress theme. poedit has a very simple interface. it lists all translatable strings, you can click on any string to translate it. there are three boxes below the list. one for the original string, second for the translation and the third box would show instructions for translators. when you translate a string, poedit will automatically move to the next string in the queue. when you save your file, poedit will automatically compile a .mo version of the file in the same directory. once you are done translating your theme, upload the theme to your wordpress website using ftp. go to wordpress admin area in your browser and activate the theme. setting wordpress to use translated theme if you are already using wordpress in the same language as your theme’s translation files, then wordpress will automatically pick up translation files for your theme. however, if you are using wordpress in default english, then you can still force wordpress to use translated files for the theme. simply add this line of code in your wp-config.php file: 
// replace fr_fr with your language and country code.
define ('wplang', 'fr_fr');
 by adding this line you are telling wordpress to use translation files for these languages. however, since you are not using wordpress in that language and there are no translation files for wordpress backend. wordpress admin area will fallback to english, but your theme will be displayed using the translation files. we hope that this article helped you translate wordpress theme into your own language. if you are not a developer, and you want to contribute back to the community, then translation is one of the best ways to give back to the larger global wordpress community. most theme and plugin authors really appreciate user involvement and some might even reward you by giving you extra support, pro add-ons, etc. let us know if you have any questions or feedback by leaving a comment below. 40 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 13 commentsleave a reply ali asghar says: dec 24, 2018 at 4:48 am dear webbeginner’s can u tell me pls how to create footer navigation menu see sample same footer menu in footer i am waiting your nice reply reply wpbeginner support says: dec 24, 2018 at 5:10 pm hi ali, if your wordpress theme has defined a navigation menu in the footer area, then you can just select that location when creating your menus. reply mat says: mar 27, 2017 at 1:50 pm the biggest problem with themes is that relatively few themes can to work with multilanguage content by multilanguage plugins: how can i find right themes with mulitlanguage content support? or how can i prepare my theme to use with a multilanguage content support? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 29, 2017 at 11:56 pm please see our article on how to find and translate translation ready wordpress themes. reply phong bui says: apr 9, 2016 at 3:52 am after translation, from the displayed word is not. how do you solve this problem? thanks so much reply zimbrul says: sep 25, 2013 at 7:54 am one question i’ve got: after you finish translate the (let’s say) en_us .po file do you need to save as ro_ro.po (let’s say i translate in romanian) and then send the ro_ro.po and .mo files in the language directory of the theme? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 25, 2013 at 11:30 pm yes you should upload both files to your theme directory. also if you have completely translated a theme you can contact theme developer and send them your .po file so that other users can benefit from it too. reply zimbrul says: sep 26, 2013 at 6:37 am thanks for the clarification. i was starting to translate a theme in romanian (wordpress is already in romanian) language but it’s a kind of difficult because i don’t want to translate the theme options in dashboard, i only want to translate the front end (the bits that are not already in romanian from the default wordpress code. reply rama says: sep 20, 2013 at 7:58 am very good guide to find and translate a translation ready word press theme and can be translated into several languages. reply chaim says: sep 18, 2013 at 11:00 am thank you! it is very helpful. reply zimbrul says: sep 18, 2013 at 9:55 am cannot say how much i appreciate this article! i’m using wordpress in english all the time but i also create websites in romanian and i’d like all wordpress frontview to be in romanian hence this comes extremely handy. i think there is a confusion amongst wp users about translating themes, translating wordpress, using wordpress in your native language and building a multilanguage wordpress site. reply susan smith says: sep 22, 2013 at 9:40 am very interesting article! zimbrul, i’ve used a really neat premium called wpml plugin for setting up multi-language site. it’s totally worth the money and allows for custom translations. reply zimbrul says: sep 26, 2013 at 6:41 am susan, thanks for mentioning this plugin, i was nearly to buy it many times but i never did as i’m kinda “scared” of building and administer a bi-lingual site. thanks for the tip. i might try it one day after i understand how seo works for a multi-lingual site. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) ipage coupon get over 83% off on ipage web hosting and a free domain name. media maestro coupon get 30% off on media maestro wordpress media content management plugin. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.