menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: health & sports, wellness brett & kate mckay • february 5, 2020 last updated: february 6, 2020 what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet in few instances does the old maxim — “it’s better to have it and not need it, than need it and not have it” — hold more true than when it comes to the items you stock in your medicine cabinet. when you do need some drug or balm, you’re invariably in the kind of exigency where you decidedly do not feel like getting into your car and driving to walgreens. ergo, it pays to keep your medicine cabinet well-stocked. here’s what you should always have on hand (if you have kids, you’ll need the children’s versions of some of these items too): calamine lotion. for alleviating bug bites you can’t stop itching. muscle balm. topical creams like bengay temporarily soothe your muscle and joint aches. for longer-lasting (if less wintergreen-y) healing and relief, we’re big fans of stick-on heating pads. sunscreen. for preventing sunburn, natch. if you’re someone who routinely forgets to apply this cream, then you should keep on hand another: aloe vera. box of bandaids. get ’em in a variety of sizes. they not only work to cover a wound, but their magical pain-relieving effect on children’s boo-boos has been “scientifically” proven. acetaminophen. it’s good to keep both acetaminophen (like tylenol) and ibuprofen (like advil) on hand for different uses. acetaminophen may be better for treating headaches and arthritis. ibuprofen. not only treats pain but reduces swelling and inflammation. may be better for fever, sinusitis, backache, muscle soreness, and earaches. antibiotic ointment. helps prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns. i like the ones which also include a pain reliever. indigestion relief. remedies like pepto-bismol or imodium a-d can be clutch when a meal goes south. daytime/nighttime cold medicine. sometimes i reach for dayquil/nyquil, but its artificial color and high fructose corn syrup (almost 100 calories in a serving!) is a turn-off, so that i’m a bigger fan of alka-seltzer. the “plop, plop, fizz, fizz” assuredly creates a nice placebo effect in signaling that relief is on its way. if you’ve got sinus problems, you may need a medicine specifically targeted to those issues. allergy medicine. for treating allergies, a non-drowsy, 24-hour antihistamine like claritin, zyrtec, etc. is probably your best bet. my doctor says that each of the varieties in this category only work for a fraction of people, so keep experimenting ‘til you find one that’s effective for you (try out nasal sprays too). also keep some benadryl on hand for unexpected allergic reactions, and, let’s be honest, for knocking yourself out for bed now and again. canker sore medicine. especially handy if you have kids, who tend to treat canker sores like painful, flesh-eating boils in need of urgent numbification. hydrogen peroxide. people tend to poo-poo using hydrogen peroxide these days as it can damage skin tissue a bit, and yes, the best way to clean a wound is with soap and running water, but when you have something like a skinned knee on your hands, cleaning it with soap and water isn’t that easy. swab it with a little hydrogen peroxide, put on some antibiotic ointment, cover with a bandaid, and, in my decidedly non-medical opinion, you’re good to go. rubbing alcohol. murder on an open wound but handy for sanitizing your tweezers and such. cough drops. soothing for sore and scratchy throats, and a nice palate refresher. tweezers. for removing splinters and much more. thermometer. if you’ve got squirrelly, squirmy kids, definitely go with the forehead variety. related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// how i finally made flossing a habit podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy