wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to create a contact form with multiple recipients (4 ways) how to create a contact form with multiple recipients (4 ways) last updated on march 23rd, 2020 by editorial staff 66 shares share tweet share pin do you want your contact form to send notifications to different people in your company? perhaps you want all messages to get copied to your assistant, or you want specific messages to be sent to different departments, or maybe you simply want to send users a copy of the information they submitted. in this article, we’ll share four different ways to create a contact form with multiple recipients, so you can choose the option that best fits your need. why you might want to send multiple recipients from your contact form by default, contact forms only send notifications to one email address. you might want to change this for a number of reasons. here are some situations that you might face: you run your site with a friend, and both of you want an identical copy of all messages that come in through your contact form. you want your users to receive a confirmation email whenever they send you a message. you want this confirmation email to be slightly different from the one you receive yourself. you want your contact form messages to go to different people depending on the purposes of the message. for instance, you want sales inquiries to go straight to your sales team vs billing inquiries going to your billing team. you want to copy your blogging partner, and your assistant in on your contact form emails, so you can easily “reply all” to keep everyone in the loop. in this article, we’ll be showing you several different ways to get your contact form plugin to send multiple emails to different people. this lets you deal with all the above scenarios and anything else you might face. note: our tutorial is meant for self-hosted wordpress sites only. if you want to learn more about wordpress, see our article on how to start a wordpress blog or how to make a wordpress site. choosing the right wordpress form builder there are a ton of wordpress form plugins on the market. some of them support multiple email notifications, but not many of them allow you to customize notifications. we’ll be using the wpforms plugin for this tutorial. it is a popular wordpress form builder used by over 3 million websites. there is also a free version called wpforms lite which you can use if you only want to send the contents of your contact form to multiple recipients. however, if you want to send custom notifications to multiple recipients, then you’ll need the paid version of the plugin. to demonstrate all four methods, we’ll be using the pro version in this tutorial. sending multiple notifications for contact form there are multiple scenarios for sending contact form email notifications. in this article, we will be tackling each one of them. first, you need to install and activate the wpforms plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. next, you’ll need to head over to wpforms » settings page to enter your license key. you can find this information under your account on the wpforms website. after that, you need to visit wpforms » add new page to create your first contact form. for instructions, see our step by step tutorial on how to create a contact form in wordpress. now that you’ve created your form, you can use any of the methods below to add multiple recipients and even create custom notifications for your forms. 1. send same notification to multiple recipients the simplest way to set up multiple recipients is to send the same notification to each person. simply go to wpforms » all forms and edit the form that you want to setup notifications for. next, you need to go to the settings » notifications tab in the form builder and enter the recipients email in the ‘send to email address’ box. you can enter as many emails as you like, but remember to separate the email addresses with a comma. in the example, notifications will be sent to: the default admin email address editor@mywebsite.com sarah@mywebsite.com tip: the {admin_email} is the email address for your wordpress administrator. this might be you if you’re the site owner. it could also be whoever set up the website. you can check what it is under settings » general menu in your wordpress dashboard. 2. send different contact form notifications to multiple recipients in some situations, you might want to send a different notification to each recipient. for instance, you might send users a confirmation email that’s different from the admin email notification you get. you can easily do this with wpforms. simply open the form builder, go to settings » notifications, and then click the ‘add new notification’ button. you’ll see a popup that asks you to name the notification. this name is just for your reference, so you can put in whatever makes the most sense to you. we’re going to use “thank you email” for the sake of this tutorial. next, click the ‘ok’ button and your new notification will appear at the top of the notifications list. you can scroll down to find your original ‘default notification’ below this. delete the {admin_email} tag from the ‘send to email address’ box. after that, you need to click on the ‘show smart tags’ link just above the ‘send to email address’ box. this will expand to show available fields. simply, click the ‘email’ field. this will then be added into the box as {field_id=”1″} if you’re using the simple contact form template. if you’ve customized your form, then the field id will be different. all what this means is that wpforms will send this notification to the user’s email address, which they entered into the contact form. next, you’ll need to fill in the email subject, from name, from email, and reply-to. here’s an example of how that could look: you’ll also want to add a thank you message. by default, the ‘message’ section contains the tag {all_fields}. this will show all the data that the user entered. here’s our thank you message: now, your user will get the thank you message after submitting the form, and you’ll get the standard default notification without the thank you message. you can set up as many custom notifications as you like. you don’t have to include all the form data in each message, either. for instance, if you’re a coach taking bookings, then you could choose to have all the form data sent to you and the client. your assistant might only receive the client’s name, email address, and the time(s) for which they’ve booked. that way, any private information stays confidential. 3. add different recipients for different form options sometimes, you might have a single form that you want to send to different people depending on what option the user picks. for instance, you may want to use a single contact form that allows users to submit questions, ask to buy ads on your site, and suggest guest post ideas. you might want to: send the questions to your assistant. receive the advertising requests yourself. send the guest post ideas to your editor. with wpforms, it’s easy to do this. first, go to the ‘fields’ view of your form. you’ll need to add a field that lets users choose between two or more alternatives. you could pick either the dropdown or the multiple choice field for this. for our example, we’re going to use the multiple choice (radio button) field. drag and drop the field onto your form. next, click on it to edit the different choices. once you’ve set up the field with various choices, go to settings » notifications. next, click the ‘add new notification’ button to create additional notifications that you need. you will need to fill in the details as appropriate for each notification. here’s a notification that’s being sent when a guest post is submitted: as you scroll down, you need to click the checkbox next to ‘enable conditional logic’. this will show you few additional settings. you need to select your multiple-choice field from the dropdown. after that click on the appropriate choice for this notification. you can then continue to set up new notifications for each of your options. tip: you can use this method along with the methods we’ve already looked at. for instance, you could enter two or more email addresses in the ‘send to email address’ box. that would send copies of the same notification to those people. you could also set up an email confirmation message to go to the user. if you want to use different confirmations for the different options, you’ll need to enable conditional logic for these too. 4. ccing others on a notification email sometimes, you might want to copy people in on your contact form notifications. for instance, you might want to copy in your site’s editor and lead writer when you get a notification about a new guest post submission. the advantage of using this method is that you can easily ‘reply all’ to the notification email. instead of everyone receiving a separate email, as with the first method, there’s one email with multiple recipients copied in. to add a cc field to your form notification settings, go to wpforms » settings page and then click on the email tab. scroll down to the bottom of the page and then check the box next to ‘carbon copy’ option. don’t forget to save your settings. now, when you’re editing any of your form’s notifications, you’ll see a cc box. this lets you enter any addresses you want that notification sent to. tip: don’t enter more than one email address in the ‘send to email address’ box if you’re using this method. otherwise, the people being cc’d will receive multiple emails. troubleshooting email delivery issues for your forms if you are having trouble sending email notifications from your wordpress contact form, then this section is for you. by default wordpress uses php to send emails. this method can be easily misused by spammers and is limited or blocked by many wordpress hosting companies. since it is not a secure method, it is also blocked by popular email providers like gmail and outlook. this means your emails never reach the users inbox. luckily, there is an easy solution to fix that. you can either use a professional smtp service provider or use your hosting company’s free business email address feature to securely send your emails. for step by step instructions, see our guide on how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. we hope this article has helped you learn how to create a contact form with multiple recipients in wordpress. you might also like our guide on the best wordpress plugins and best email marketing services for small business. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 66 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. comments congratulations, you have the opportunity to be the first commenter on this article. have a question or suggestion? please leave a comment to start the discussion. leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) pankogut coupon get 20% off on pankogut's premium wordpress themes collection. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.