wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to disable gutenberg and keep the classic editor in wordpress how to disable gutenberg and keep the classic editor in wordpress last updated on march 1st, 2019 by editorial staff 335 shares share tweet share pin do you want to disable gutenberg and keep the classic wordpress editor on your site? gutenberg is an upcoming wordpress editor which will replace the classic wordpress editor. while it looks modern, a lot of users are finding it hard to use and would prefer to keep the classic editor. in this article, we will show you how to easily disable gutenberg and keep the classic editor in wordpress. what is gutenberg? gutenberg is an upcoming wordpress editor with a goal to modernize the wordpress writing experience. it attempts to work like a page builder plugin and allows you to drag and drop items into a post or page. the goal is to offer more flexibility and enable wordpress users to create unique layouts for their content with rich multimedia content. since wordpress 4.9.8, the core wordpress team has added a call to try out gutenberg in the wordpress dashboard. the purpose of this callout is to get feedback from millions of wordpress users and make gutenberg ready for its first release. gutenberg will become the default wordpress editor with the release of wordpress 5.0 which is expected to arrive later this year (2018). why disable the gutenberg editor in wordpress? many users feel that gutenberg in it’s current state is not ready for live sites. this is evident by the 2.3 out of 5 rating average on the gutenberg plugin. at the time of writing this article, there are 676 one-star ratings vs 288 five-star ratings. despite the negative reviews, wordpress core team is moving forward with making gutenberg the default editor in wordpress 5.0. this is making a lot of users very concerned. they want to have an option to disable gutenberg and keep the classic editor. thankfully, there’s a plugin by the wordpress core team which allows you to do just that. let’s take a look at how to easily disable gutenberg and keep using the classic wordpress editor. method 1. disable gutenberg with the classic editor plugin for this method, we will be using the classic editor plugin which is developed and maintained by the core wordpress contributors. first thing you need to do is install and activate the classic editor plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. the plugin works out of the box, and it will disable the gutenberg editor upon activation. this plugin also gives you an option to keep both gutenberg and the classic editor at the same time. you can configure this in the plugin’s settings. simply go to the settings » writing page in your wordpress admin area. you will see the option to do this under “classic editor settings”. don’t forget to click on the save changes button to store your settings. you will now be able to see a new link under the posts menu to create new posts using the classic editor. you will also be able to edit older articles using the classic editor. simply go to posts » all posts page and you’ll see a ‘edit (classic)’ link below posts. method 2. use classic editor with disable gutenberg plugin if you want to disable gutenberg for certain user roles and post types, then this method will help you do that. first, you need to install and activate the disable gutenberg plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to visit settings » disable gutenberg page to configure plugin settings. by default, the plugin will disable gutenberg everywhere for all users on your website. however, if you want to limit it to certain user roles and post types, then you need to uncheck the ‘complete disable’ option. unchecking it will display more options to selectively disable gutenberg for certain user roles, post types, theme templates, or individual posts. this option is helpful if you are using a wordpress plugin that’s not compatible with gutenberg, but you want to use gutenberg for other areas on your site. wordpress is the world’s most popular website builder powering more than 31% of all websites on the internet. it has thousands of plugins and themes and powers all kind of websites from ecommerce stores to membership communities. a lot of these third-party tools rely heavily on the classic wordpress editor. the core team is trying to give developers enough time to make their plugins and themes compatible with gutenberg. however, it is possible that many of these will not be fully compatible with the gutenberg editor. if that’s the case, then these settings could be very helpful for you. don’t forget to click on the save changes button to store your settings. we hope this article helped you disable gutenberg and keep the classic editor in wordpress. you may also want to see our list of the most wanted wordpress tips, tricks, and hacks. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 335 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 111 commentsleave a reply bapan mistri says: jan 30, 2020 at 7:39 am thanks a lot for the information. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 30, 2020 at 10:16 am you’re welcome reply dharmesh patel says: jan 10, 2020 at 3:02 am great post. it helped me a lot. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 10, 2020 at 10:02 am thank you, glad our tutorial was helpful reply valerieb says: jul 3, 2019 at 11:53 pm i’ve read the post above and do not see these options when i look at settings on my 2nd site. when i choose plug-ins, i get the message that i have to upgrade to a paid plan in order to be able to use either the disable gutenberg plugin or the classic editor plugin. is this correct? people with free sites are not allowed to disable the “new block editor”? thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 5, 2019 at 3:20 pm our tutorials are for wordpress.org sites, not wordpress.com sites. wordpress.com should be able to let you know the options available but they may have an option in the top right of the post editor unless it has been removed reply cheryl says: jun 29, 2019 at 6:52 pm in trying to find a way out of gutenberg i installed classic editor, also classic editor add-on, and then finally disable gutenberg. a third party tool i used to use used to work perfectly for months. now it does not, even with this plugins. do i have too many plugins at this point? suggestions? thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 1, 2019 at 1:05 pm you would only want one plugin for the classic editor active, you may be running into a conflict between the plugins that is preventing the classic editor from displaying. reply sameer kumar says: jun 18, 2019 at 3:04 am i have followed all the processes but my problem is not yet resulted. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 18, 2019 at 10:43 am if neither of these plugins was able to revert you to the classic editor, you may want to disable your other plugins to ensure this isn’t a plugin conflict. reply le hunt says: jun 6, 2019 at 11:37 am thank you, i don’t like gutenberg at all, and was able to get my website, which i’m still working on, back to normal. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 7, 2019 at 9:56 am glad our guide can help, as gutenberg evolves the editing experience should improve for the future reply aimee says: jun 3, 2019 at 3:59 pm you cannot install any plugins on wordpress if you don’t “upgrade to the business plan” as is what happens when you go to the plugin page. for the zillions of us who have blogs on there and are forced into the block editor, what do we do? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 4, 2019 at 11:29 am to clarify, our tutorials are for wordpress.org sites, not wordpress.com sites: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/self-hosted-wordpress-org-vs-free-wordpress-com-infograph/ if you click the three vertical dots in the top right of the editor they may have the option to swap to the classic editor. reply andrew says: may 13, 2019 at 5:34 am gutenberg is very annoying. add the below code to your theme function file add_filter(‘use_block_editor_for_post’, ‘__return_false’); save and have fun. reply wpbeginner support says: may 13, 2019 at 2:19 pm that is one method, we recommended the plugins as those are easier for beginners to disable if they would like to use the editor in the future reply michele hollick says: may 12, 2019 at 9:26 am i’ve been using the classic editor for awhile now and it works great. some of my editing features are missing though. there is no longer an option to change the color or font size and underline is missing too. is there a way to fix that? reply wpbeginner support says: may 13, 2019 at 1:51 pm those were likely added by the tinymce advanced plugin if you were using that previously reply dieter says: may 5, 2019 at 11:26 am thanks! your post about the classic editor plugin solved my issue with new default editor of wordpress immediately! reply wpbeginner support says: may 6, 2019 at 2:23 pm glad our guide was helpful reply mada says: may 2, 2019 at 6:57 am just started panicking when first saw this update! but now i’m back on track! thank you so much! reply wpbeginner support says: may 2, 2019 at 10:54 am glad our guide could help reply karina says: apr 16, 2019 at 1:53 pm thanks, this worked for me. horrible wordpress update reply wpbeginner support says: apr 17, 2019 at 11:16 am glad our recommendation worked, it is continuing to be developed so as it is worked on the editing experience should improve reply brooke says: apr 8, 2019 at 11:32 am i gave myself two weeks to adjust to this and reinstalled the old editor months ago on my personal site. now i’m having to work with it again for a client and man do i hate this editor. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 9, 2019 at 11:11 am there is a learning curve but this editor should hopefully reduce the barrier to entry for new users to wordpress reply elena says: apr 4, 2019 at 1:18 pm i used your method and it worked instantly… after hours of despair! super mega thank you!!! would you have any estimated idea of when wordpress developer intend to force everyone to use the gutenberg editor? where best to leave them feedback? it messes up my whole website structure and all of a sudden pictures disappeared from post without me being able to access. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 5, 2019 at 10:55 am the classic editor plugin plans to be officially supported until december 2021 at the moment. if you visit the gutenberg plugin page they have information on how to leave feedback reply mario boutin says: mar 31, 2019 at 4:24 am thank you for the article. i have searched for hours trying to get my drafts saved and my posts published with no success. i even played the permissions in the files sections of my cpanel. nothing worked until after many searches through wordpress forums and after reading 10’s of google suggestions on “how to get my posts saved” or “posts won’t save in wordpress” i finally found your article and i didn’t know that was so simple to solve that problem. i simply installed the plugin classic editor and it worked right away! thanks again! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 1, 2019 at 1:15 pm glad our article could help reply marialena sarris says: mar 25, 2019 at 9:45 am thank you for the informative article. the new editor is the most time consuming and complicated editor ever, (this thing is unresponsive and lugs continuously) which they shoved it to our throats. forcing us to run yet another plugin, for something that didn’t need a plugin in the first place. thank you again for the article. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 3:57 pm there are certainly parts that are works in progress, as it improves it should hopefully help new users to wordpress reply solomon mwale says: mar 25, 2019 at 8:23 am thank you so much for sharing this information i have been off my blog for long. today i was trying to post something and i got stuck with this. but after a very long search, i have finally managed to get the results that i wanted and finally on the read again. keep on sharing this great information all the time you are such a great help. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 3:51 pm you’re welcome, glad our content could be helpful reply brick wall says: mar 21, 2019 at 8:45 pm excellent information!! thank you. as of 20180321 a couple of the menu items listed above have been removed but other than that this was a life saver for editing previous content. outstanding! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 22, 2019 at 10:13 am thank you for letting us know reply manuel says: mar 21, 2019 at 4:23 pm thanks, thanks, thanks. the gutenberg editor is a nightmare, headache and time consuming. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 22, 2019 at 10:03 am glad our article could help return you to the editor you were accustomed to reply alec says: mar 20, 2019 at 4:36 pm thank you so much for showing me the way out of my gutenberg nightmare. what on earth are the wp development team thinking?!?!? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 21, 2019 at 11:16 am it can certainly be confusing if you’re accustomed to the classic editor but it is the current attempt to make creating a post on wordpress more beginner friendly. reply lisa alford says: mar 20, 2019 at 11:17 am was having so much trouble with gutenberg i wasn’t blogging anymore. the work around you showed wasn’t appearing on my “writing” page. there was no option for classic editor on there. i had to reinstall classic editor. yay!!! back up and off to work i go! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 21, 2019 at 11:06 am glad you were able to get it working again reply keith berger says: mar 19, 2019 at 12:40 am thank you soooooooooooo much for this!!! the new editor ought to be called clunky anxiety producer. your article just gave me my blogging life back! thanks you! <3 reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 2:02 pm glad our article could help reply ben says: mar 13, 2019 at 7:09 am ive been experiencing issues with the editors today. we had the classic editor installed on a few sites but two of them will now not change to text tab view from visual tab in the editor screen. both have bakery visual builder plugin installed which i thought might be the issue but even when disabling that plugin i still have same issue. ive tried both suggested plugins and get the same results. im now looking for any other option as really dont want to use guttenburg. any ideas would be gratefully received. thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 13, 2019 at 10:41 am we would recommend first reaching out to the support for the classic editor plugin to see if this is a known issue or if they have a recommended solution. reply sgtdeathadder says: mar 11, 2019 at 9:44 am gutenberg was a nightmare to me, so many issues with it. thanks for your article it really helped! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 11, 2019 at 12:04 pm glad our recommendation could help reply ethan says: mar 9, 2019 at 7:14 am thank god for classic editor!!!!! hahahaha. the new wp was a culture shock for me when i went back to blogging. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 11, 2019 at 11:29 am glad we could let you know about this plugin reply clemzyboss says: feb 9, 2019 at 7:28 pm i had to install the uninstall gutenberg plugin..thanks a whole lot! reply wpbeginner support says: feb 11, 2019 at 3:10 pm glad our article could help and you found a plugin that worked for you reply janni says: jan 10, 2019 at 12:25 pm oh, thank you very much! it works like charm! i love you! you save me from so much stress. you’re a lifesaver. it works like charm. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 11, 2019 at 11:55 am glad our guide could help reply alex says: jan 8, 2019 at 12:28 pm thank you for the instructions! we went with option 1 and it put us back on the classic editor. worked like a charm! thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 9, 2019 at 10:49 am glad our article could help reply ed says: jan 1, 2019 at 6:22 pm i have tried all of the instructions offered above and unfortunately for me, any page that i open to edit with classic editor contains nothing but red wavy lines. i do not have time to try more failed suggestions, so please tell me how to revert back to a previous word press version that worked as advertised. thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 3, 2019 at 2:06 pm sadly, at the moment we do not have a recommended method for reverting your wordpress version. if you have a backup of your site you should be able to restore it using: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/beginners-guide-how-to-restore-wordpress-from-backup/ we would also recommend letting the support for the classic editor plugin know about your issue and they may be able to assist. reply estefania campoblanco says: dec 22, 2018 at 8:42 am hi, i’m currently taking way longer than intended whenever i’m writing a new post. my editing tool bar doesn’t have the tools i need it to have and is very limited, as it seems to be not compatible with the puglin i downloaded for it to adjust to my needs. as i was half through a post when i decided to install the new version of wordpress, it wasn’t as hard to use because i had little work left to do. so my question here is: if i download the classic editor, will my published post (that used images blocks) remain the way it is right now? or will it be altered when i switch back to classic one? thank you, reply wpbeginner support says: dec 25, 2018 at 12:53 am hi estefania, some design elements may not appear as they did in new editor. reply magnus andersson says: dec 20, 2018 at 10:44 am gutenberg is a disaster and it seriously inhibits my workflow. thanks for your great advice. reply jeffrey fry says: dec 16, 2018 at 6:29 pm installing the “classic editor” plugin worked like a charm. automatically disabled gutenberg editor. reply editorial staff says: dec 17, 2018 at 3:44 pm glad you found that helpful jeffrey reply dann says: dec 15, 2018 at 9:55 am thanks! the new editor is horrid!! reply pamela says: dec 14, 2018 at 9:03 am am i screwed? i have a free version blog using wordpress (wordpress.com). am i correct in saying that i don’t have an option for the classic editor plugin, unless i upgrade to the business plan? the free version doesn’t allow for plug ins reply wpbeginner support says: dec 21, 2018 at 1:51 pm on wordpress.com when editing your post, in the top right under the verticle ellipses you should have more options and under there should be the option to swap to the classic editor for now. reply jewel says: dec 28, 2018 at 9:10 pm same here with the free account. however, when i switch back to the classic editor the scroll bar is no longer existent. so i can’t scroll through my post. how do i get the scroll bar back in classic editor because the new editor leaves much to be desired. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: dec 31, 2018 at 3:25 pm you would sadly need to reach out to wordpress.com’s support for that. we do not have control over anything that wordpress.com is offering and our recommended solutions are for wordpress.org sites. greg says: dec 22, 2018 at 1:48 am thanks for the advice on where to find the classic editor option. i have a free wordpress.com account too, and my workaround was to start in gutenberg for the title, then save, jump back to all posts and then reopen in classic. tedious? time consuming? sure. but i felt like a blind man with a rubik’s cube when i tried to use gutenberg. reply yves says: dec 14, 2018 at 2:58 am hello i installed the classic editor plugin ant it works fine but when i create a new post, the editor is by default on “text editor” and not “visual editor” is there a way to enter a new post in visual editor by default ? reply wpbeginner support says: dec 17, 2018 at 7:29 pm hi yves, after switching to the visual editor, wordpress remembers your preference when you click on the save or publish button. then the next time you edit a post it will open the visual editor. reply mario says: dec 14, 2018 at 12:34 am hello team, i’ve never been able to use gutenberg plugin. every time, i try to save a post i get an error message: “updating failed”. first of all, i got wordpress updated to version 5.0. but before the update, i had already installed gutenberg. after the update, i tried to use it. the issue persists. i hope you can provide some advice. thanks. regards, mj reply wpbeginner support says: dec 17, 2018 at 7:30 pm hi mario, you can uninstall the gutenberg plugin. it has now become part of the wordpress core so you don’t need the plugin. reply mario marquin says: dec 30, 2018 at 1:12 pm hello, i did the following actions: a. clicked on settings and set the classic editor as default. b. i installed wordpress 5.0 c. uninstalled gutenberg plugin as it is integrated already with wordpress 5.0 but, the result was the same. issue persists: “updating failed”. do you have another suggestion? gutenberg appearance looks great and i would love learning how to use it. thanks in advance for your support. kind regards, mj reply wpbeginner support says: dec 30, 2018 at 5:10 pm hi mario, a number of issues can trigger this error. for example, on one of our test blogs we noticed the error when the wordpress urls were different in our general our settings. you may want to follow our wordpress troubleshooting guide to find out what’s causing the issue. sieglinde anderson says: dec 11, 2018 at 3:17 pm did i miss something? how do you disable gutenberg if you only have a wordpress.com blog if you can’t install plug-ins? i have two wordpress.com blogs and i really want to keep the classic editor for both. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 12, 2018 at 12:00 am hi sieglinde anderson, please contact wordpress.com support, they may be able to guide you in the right direction. reply brie says: dec 11, 2018 at 2:15 pm hey, thank you for the article. when i use the classic editor plugin i only have the option for editor instead of both visual and editor. so basically i can’t see my headings and titles as they are in code. any suggestions for what i am doing wrong? thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: dec 12, 2018 at 12:02 am hi brie, the classic editor does not switch the old editor to html mode. you should still be able to use the old visual editor. reply zakria rahimi says: dec 13, 2018 at 9:23 pm i am really thinking to stop using wordpress anymore. since i am using this it i daily get headache with their non sense updates and no solutions. i couldnt post since four days due to disappeared editing bar. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 17, 2018 at 7:33 pm hi zakria, have you installed the classic editor plugin? let us know if the problem persists after installing classic editor. reply kristi says: dec 11, 2018 at 1:53 pm hallelujah!!! the new version ruined my editing capabilities using bakery builder. i hate it. thanks for this plugin!! reply troy says: dec 10, 2018 at 11:56 am why do i need a plugin to remove a change i did not want, nor need? in other words why am i doing work i shouldn’t be? the other editor worked fine for me and learning a new one is definitely not within my resources at the moment. reply xarah dax says: dec 26, 2018 at 5:08 am thank you so much for this tutorial. i wholeheartely hate gutenberg. there is a reason why i don’t like jimdo and wix and so on. and why i love wordpress. i really don’t understand why they went that way. it’s ugly and complicated. more importantly though: i really don’t have the time to learn those blocks. i need to be able to write and then i format. done. though, my screens look a lot different than yours but i use multisite so maybe that’s why. again, thank you! reply terry g says: dec 10, 2018 at 11:07 am i installed the “classic editor” plugin. when i go to settings –> writing, i don’t get the wording you said, but i get default editor for all users with radio buttons for classic editor and block editor. underneath that i get allow users to switch editors yes/no reply chris hughes says: dec 10, 2018 at 6:11 am i been blogging for over 10 years and i hate the new gutenberg. it is not user friendly and makes writing posts so much longer. for starters you can only add 1 image at a time and there not even any instructions on using the interface. what a disaster from wordpress reply gd says: dec 17, 2018 at 10:49 am i’ve used wp on dozens of blogs for over 10 years. this is the first time in 10 years i’ve thought about getting a custom cms built. the old editor was fine. for those that wanted changes, there were plugins, or experienced wp coders. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 17, 2018 at 3:30 pm hi gd, you can opt-out of using the blocks editor by disabling it and keep using the classic editor. meanwhile, your feedback will help core developers in improving blocks editor and make it better. reply tammy sparks says: dec 9, 2018 at 12:22 pm thank you for the information, however, now that i’m using the classic editor, i am not able to insert a gallery. any tips on why it’s not working? thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 17, 2018 at 7:36 pm hi tammy, the new editor has a gallery block to insert images. reply tinthia clemant says: dec 9, 2018 at 7:39 am thank you thank you thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: dec 9, 2018 at 10:19 am you are welcome reply sirvan says: dec 7, 2018 at 2:55 am i don’t have any option like: change editor settings :(. reply tim says: dec 7, 2018 at 1:13 am newsflash people… classic editor does not work. disable gutenberg plugin does not work. nothing works. whatever typing screen you’re on – it still shows the annoying gutenberg. no classic editor, no nothing. both plugins are useless. not one of them works out of the box, no changes are seen, so that’s what we have. if anyone actually knows how to disable gutenberg now – after the wp 5.0 update, do let me know. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 9, 2018 at 2:36 pm hi tim, we have tested both plugins after installing wordpress 5.0. they both work out of the box. perhaps you are missing something. reply jeremy says: dec 17, 2018 at 9:51 pm or perhaps they are conflicting with other plugins that we are using. this type of update is far too advanced to be required to run side by side with our all our many plugins. and now we have to add an additional plugin to avoid it which further adds to the site load while increasing chances for conflict. the feature should have been left as a plugin and not build into the core. i’m not a developer but i would presume you would want the core as bare bone as possible in order to enable other software to built on top of it… now its this mess of an editor that is disrupting some of my already installed plugins…. which i may have to purchase new subscriptions to in order to receive updates to the new setup. reply jeremy says: dec 17, 2018 at 9:42 pm classic editor worked on one of my sites… then on another it fixed the formatting but elements were inoperable. “disable gutenberg” plugin didn’t work for me at all. it’s ridiculous that i need to add addition plugin load to revert back to a classic layout. these changes are too advanced to be implemented in the core of wp and expect to not have conflicts across the entire marketplace. the block editor should have remained as a plugin! reply ramin faizy says: nov 8, 2018 at 7:26 am thanks wpbeginner team for this great post reply paul says: oct 30, 2018 at 8:33 pm gutenberg editor is not newbie friendly. for those who have been blogging and editing their own blogs via wordpress they can figure things out but for those who are just starting out, it will be disappointing! reply wpbeginner support says: oct 31, 2018 at 10:40 pm hi paul, those users will be able to disable gutenberg using the methods described in the article above. reply diane says: oct 29, 2018 at 8:02 pm is the classic word editor for web sites or just blog sites? i have a website that includes a blog. i installed and activated it but there was no option in settings to disable gutenberg, only block editor? i have disabled it for now. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 29, 2018 at 9:44 pm hi diane, classic editor is for all kind of content. gutenberg isn’t out yet, unless you have it installed as a plugin. once it is out, the plugin will automatically disable it for you and you’d be able to continue using your wordpress site as it was. reply bailey says: oct 11, 2018 at 2:27 pm i’m just starting my blogging. i’ve only done a little to set up my site and it’s going very slow due to learning curve so i’m wondering if i should just wait until gutenberg comes out so i don’t have to learn two ways of building it? it looks so much easier for a novice blogger but i don’t want to assume that and waste time not moving forward. just hoping to get an expert opinion! thanks!! reply wpbeginner support says: oct 12, 2018 at 1:24 pm hi bailey, you don’t need to wait for gutenberg to come out. you can go ahead and install it right now as a plugin. reply « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.