wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to add recaptcha to wordpress comment form how to add recaptcha to wordpress comment form last updated on may 23rd, 2019 by editorial staff 169 shares share tweet share pin are you looking to add recaptcha to your wordpress comment form? spam comments have gotten out of control for wordpress websites. as spammers become more sophisticated, they can launch massive spam attacks with little effort. akismet, the popular spam filtering service for wordpress blocks about 7.5 million spam comments every hour. dealing with spam comments can be frustrating, and some bloggers even choose to completely disable comments on their websites. instead of turning off the comments, you can add captcha to the comment form to practically eliminate spam. in this tutorial, we’ll show you how to easily add recaptcha to the comment form of your wordpress website. what is google recaptcha? recaptcha is an advanced form of captcha, which is a technology used to differentiate between robots and human users. captcha is an acronym for “completely automated public turing test to tell computers and humans apart”. google acquired captcha technology in 2009 and then later rebranded it as recaptcha. they also made it easier for human users to easily pass the test. basically, it presents users with a simple check box that they can click to pass the test. if for some reason the test doesn’t validate, then the user will be presented with a challenge identifying text in an image or matching objects in multiple images. google have made recaptcha publicly available, so that website owners can use it on contact forms, login pages, and comment forms to reduce spam. here’s an example of what recpatcha test looks like to majority of your users: it is super easy to setup and add to the wordpress comment form. with that said, let’s see how to easily add recaptcha to the wordpress comment form with step by step instructions. step 1: get started first thing you need to do is install and activate the recaptcha in wp comments form plugin. you can see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin for detailed instructions. upon activation, you need to visit settings » recaptcha in comments page to configure plugin settings. the plugin will ask you to provide google recaptcha api keys. you can create these keys for free from the official recaptcha website. step 2: register your website to get recaptcha api keys the plugin needs 2 google api keys to add a recaptcha checkbox to your comment form. to get the api keys, head over to the google recaptcha website and click on the ‘admin console’ button located at the top right corner of the screen. you’ll be asked to sign in with your google account. after that, you’ll see the “register a new site” page where you need to provide some basic information to register your site. first, you need to type your website name or any name of your choice in the label field. this will help you easily identify your site in the future. next, you need to select the recaptcha v2 radio button. this will open up 3 new options. since you want to add the recaptcha checkbox to your site, you need to select the “i’m not a robot checkbox” option. the domains textbox allows you to add the domain name of your website where you would like to add the recaptcha checkbox. you can also add multiple domains or subdomains by clicking on the plus (+) icon. this will allow you to use the same api keys on different websites. under owners, google will already add your email address. you can also add another email if you want. next, you need to accept the terms of service to use google recaptcha on your site. also, select the “send alerts to owners” checkbox to allow google to send emails to you if they detect any misconfiguration or suspicious activity. once you’ve filled the form, you can click on the submit button to register your site. google recaptcha will now show you a success message along with the site key and the secret key on this page. you can now use these api keys in plugin settings on your website. step 3: add recaptcha to wordpress comment form head over to settings » recaptcha in comments from the left sidebar of your admin panel. on the settings page, you need to scroll down to paste the site key and the secret key. once you’re done, click on the “save your google recaptcha api keys pair” button to store the api keys. the last thing you need to do is enable recaptcha by clicking on the toggle button and then click on save changes. you can also do basic customization by clicking on the recaptcha customizer option. here you can make changes to the style, size, and alignment of the recaptcha checkbox. the plugin also has antispam settings option which allows you to decide what to do when the plugin detects an unauthorized comment or security breach. congratulations, you’ve successfully added recaptcha to your wordpress comment form. you can now check the comment section of your blog posts to confirm that it’s working properly. note: the recaptcha checkbox will be displayed only to logged out users, so you will need to either log out or open your website in an incognito window of your browser to preview recaptcha. we hope this tutorial helped you learn how to add recaptcha to the wordpress comment form of your website. you may also want to check out our guide on how to lazy load comments in wordpress to improve the page loading time. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 169 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 14 commentsleave a reply steve says: jan 26, 2020 at 9:54 pm i followed the instructions exactly and the recaptcha button will not appear on my site at all. signed out of wp. incognito window. nothing. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 27, 2020 at 1:16 pm please reach out to the plugin’s specific support to see if this could be due to a conflict between your specific theme and the plugin itself. reply desi says: oct 10, 2019 at 1:58 pm this plugin is no longer working. i have installed it and none of the buttons will toggle. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 11, 2019 at 10:29 am you would want to reach out to the plugin’s support and let them know to help remove the issue. reply dondee says: sep 6, 2019 at 4:01 pm fyi… the new v3captcha does not provide a clickable “i am not a robot” conformation. the only way to tell if it’s running on the site is a captcha icon floating in the lower right hand side of the screen on the site you’re on. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 9, 2019 at 9:13 am thanks for sharing this for anyone using v3 reply pradeep singh says: jul 30, 2019 at 7:33 am hello if i am using akismet antispam plugin still i need to use recaptcha technology? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jul 30, 2019 at 10:07 am that would be a personal preference question, both are tools to help prevent spam and will work together. reply pepe says: jul 24, 2019 at 10:02 am the recaptcha is not showing! help! reply wpbeginner support says: jul 25, 2019 at 10:53 am you may want to check your site in an incognito browser where you’re not logged into your site to make sure it isn’t hiding for your admin user. reply bob martin says: jun 12, 2019 at 2:16 am help! i clicked on save api keys button like tutorial said and now my site isn’t working at all. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 12, 2019 at 10:51 am it would depend on what your error is for the cause and possible solution, for a starting point you would want to take a look at our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/beginners-guide-to-troubleshooting-wordpress-errors-step-by-step/ reply eva live says: may 23, 2019 at 1:26 pm does this mean if i use this, i don’t really need to moderate all comments? i don’t like that comments don’t show up as soon as they are posted, it has to wait until i get around to reviewing comments. reply wpbeginner support says: may 24, 2019 at 9:51 am you would still need to moderate comments, recaptcha is a way to prevent spam from bots but there can be other comments you don’t want on your site reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) aweber coupon get 100% off for your first month with aweber. start your first month for free. designevo coupon get 25% off on designevo premium logo making service. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.