home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership how to defuse conflict before it begins michael and megan 00:40:10 download transcript we don’t know anybody who loves interpersonal conflict. it’s uncomfortable, and it brings up a ton of negative emotions. most of us try to avoid conflict whenever possible. even as a leader, you may wonder, “do i really have to have this hard conversation?” here’s some good news. conflict can actually be an opportunity for growth, not just a problem to solve. that happens when you learn how to engage with others—not just attack or defend. based on a lifetime of dealing with difficult situations, we’ve identified five steps to help you face up to conflict. try this! you’ll instantly untangle that knot in your stomach and see how a hard conversation can become a win for you and for others. best of all, you’ll have another solid tool in your leadership toolbox. in this episode you will— learn what it means to “hold space” for others, a key listening skill. gain practical tips for having difficult conversations. identify the one reaction that will both disarm conflict and redeem your relationship with the other person. understand when it’s best to speak and when to listen. gain the confidence to lead through initiating tough conversations. once you’ve listened to this episode, here’s your next step. think about the last time someone came to you with a complaint or problem about your leadership. identify the ways you might have responded better using these five steps. you’ll grow as a leader! be a pal do you know someone who could benefit from this topic? we’ll bet you do. everybody hates conflict! drop a link to this episode in your favorite social media channel, and tag your peeps. they’ll thank you for it! include the hashtag #leadtowin. resources from this episode extreme ownership: how u.s. navy seals lead by jocko willink and leif babin resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe extreme ownership: how u.s. navy seals lead by jocko willink and leif babin posted on tuesday, february 11, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed