× canada edition newslatest newshousinggood newsexplainersworldmeanwhile in canadaalbertabritish columbia coronavirus politicsjustin trudeauandrew scheerjagmeet singhelizabeth mayontario politicsdoug fordus politics'follow-up' podcast businessreal estateworkrecallsbasic incomeprecariously taxedunfriendly skiesmoney hacks lifelifestyle newshealthrelationshipshow-toidentitystylefood & drinkhomeborn and raised'navigating'royalsgift guidesthis could helptravel parentsnews you can useself-carehow-toreal talk'life after birth'dad lifeparents voicesroyal kids perspectivespersonalopinionhow to pitch to huffposthometownvoices video podcasts'follow-up''born & raised'news for google home/alexa follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_youtubecreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost work/life. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. × newscoronaviruspoliticsbusinesslifeparentsperspectivesvideocanada edition huffpost finds how to improve your work-from-home space when you don't have a desk no desk? no problem. these finds will help you stay organized even if you're working from your bed. by ambar pardilla 03/25/2020 04:15pm edt icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_commentcreated with sketch. icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_commentcreated with sketch. huffpost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. prices and availability subject to change. huffpost when you're working from home and don't have an office, you might improvise. and these finds will help you be productive in bed. when you’re working from home, there’s almost always a distraction to deal with — whether it’s a kiddo wanting attention, a pet needing a walk, a roommate running around or a partner presenting on a conference call. if you don’t have your own office space, you might be trying to focus by shutting yourself in your bedroom or setting up shop at the kitchen table. since our own editors at huffpost finds have been working from home, they’ve been trying to find ways to make their own wfh setups a bit better. it got us thinking about the things that might make working from home a little easier (other than a virtual happy hour with your friends or taking a relaxing bath at the end of a long day). from a furry pillow that’ll keep you sitting up straight to an adjustable laptop tray so you can be comfortable at any angle, these finds might just help you get through that next call with your co-workers. here are some finds that’ll help you working from home without a desk: 1 a laptop rest that looks exactly like a desk target with a walnut finish and hidden drawers, you won't feel like you're missing out on a desk. find it for $24 at target. 2 a classic, ceramic coffee cup uncommon goods if you're not going to your favorite coffee shop, this coffee cup will bring some of that atmosphere to your bedroom. find it for $14 at uncommon goods. 3 a comfy cushion for your back target it's probably better on your back than your office chair. plus (or plush), it feels like velvet. find it for $18 at target. 4 a set of file folders to stay on top of those sheets rifle paper co. you might not have a file drawer at hand, but you'll still be able to keep those reports on hand. find them for $14 at rifle paper co. 5 a phone mount so you won't bend over backward during breaks urban outfitters sometimes you need an instagram break. you can clip this phone mount to your nightstand so it's right next to you. find it for $16 at urban outfitters. 6 a laptop tray with a cup holder for your afternoon coffees best buy type the day away with this laptop tray. find it for $36 at best buy. 7 a clipfolio to take notes on those zoom meetings rifle paper co. you'll want to keep track of what ideas are floating around your virtual meetings. this clipfolio has a removable notepad so you can write from anywhere. find it for $26 at rifle paper co. 8 a leopard lamp to have bedside urban outfitters if you're still typing as the sun's settings, you'll need a great lamp. find this one for $99 at urban outfitters. if you're looking for something smaller, you can't go wrong with a salt lamp. 9 a pair of headphones to show you're busy best buy when you're busy, you're busy. these top-rated headphones will tell your roommates or partner that you really can't talk right now. find them for $190 at best buy. 10 a succulent to add some sunshine to your space the sill if you're missing your work plant, you could always put this pet-friendly succulent in your home work space. find the mini size for $27 at the sill. 11 a power strip for all those cables urban outfitters stay connected and charged. find it for $13 at urban outfitters. 12 a planetary paperweight uncommon goods you might have a stack of papers you don't want to lose track of. and if you're spread out on your dining table, this paperweight will keep those sheets together. find it for $52 at uncommon goods. 13 a case for your airpods so they don't get lost in your sheets rifle paper co. you definitely don't want to lose one in the middle of a call with your boss. find it for $25 at rifle paper co. there's a case that can fit your set of airpods pro, too. 14 a calendar dry-erase board anthropologie you might be feeling lost without your desk calendar but this dry-erase option can keep you organized. find it for $20 at anthropologie. 15 a furry pillow companion target if you're looking to stay in bed all day while you work, this sherpa back pillow will keep your bed extra cozy. find it for $18 at target. 16 a striped sleeve to tuck your laptop into after a long day target once your day is done, you might want to reach for your personal laptop. this sleeve will help you separate the two. find it for $20 at target. 17 a pencil pouch that you can store anywhere anthropologie if you don't have room for a pencil cup, this pouch won't take up too much space. you won't ever be scrambling for a pen. find it for $24 at anthropologie. 18 a foot warmer for when you're forgoing socks target it's your house, after all. find it for $40 at target. 19 a pillow to kick up your feet bed bath & beyond hey, you can't just kick your feet up at your office. so if you're working from home, why not? find it for $30 at bed bath & beyond. 20 a top-rated cushion bed bath & beyond your dining chair might not be so supportive for a full day at work. luckily, this cushion conforms to your pressure points. find it for $80 at bed bath & beyond. related... what to wear to work — when you work at home 10 work-from-home office setup ideas for peak productivity here's how to make your next bath relaxing af suggest a correction more:home and livingcommercework/lifefinds homehome ambar pardilla contract commerce writer, huffpost follow us! icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_youtubecreated with sketch. trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 videos getting coronavirus cabin fever? try dancing. diy face masks won’t lower covid-19 risk. what should you use them for? british pm boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 here’s the latest on the coronavirus’ impact around the world how to apply for cerb, canada’s new $2,000 emergency response benefit newscoronaviruspoliticsbusinesslifeparentsperspectivesvideo advertise with usfaquser agreement (updated)privacy (updated)comment policyabout usabout our ads part of huffpost work/life. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved.