home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library latest articles property prevnext how to deal with the stress of moving to a new house leyla preston fri 21st feb 2020 1shares share tweet pin moving to a new house is stressful enough when children aren’t a factor, but when they are, it becomes an entirely different ball game. an online study conducted by online mortgage advisor found that parents are twice as likely to find moving home extremely stressful, with just under half stating that finding and securing the property was the most stressful part of moving home. the moving process is no longer solely about whether you and your partner like the house and the area, it’s about the impact this move could have on your children and growing family. you must consider school moves, friends, and how adaptable your child is to these changes. that’s not all though, if you’re planning on growing your family further in the future then you need to take this into consideration too. below are some things to think about when you’re moving to a new house with your family. table of contents moving with a child moving with a growing family create a to-do list that includes the start and finish of your move get the whole family involved start decluttering unwanted items in the house hire reputable estate agents and conveyancing solicitors hire a removal company to pack your stuff up for you and move them to the new house take care of your emotional self and encourage your children to do the same. moving with a child if you already have children, then it’s important for them to feel involved in the whole moving process, so they felt comfortable with the change. understandably it’s not always going to be possible for them to attend house viewings with you, so if they can’t be there, take pictures or make a short video and tell them all about it as soon as you see them. show them a map to help them understand where their new house is in relation to your current one and the route you would take. it’s also a good idea to make it a positive process, by informing them of changes like what the new address would be, and what will seem like a huge advantage for them. “it will only take 10 minutes to get to grandma’s house instead of 20!”. finally, when you have confirmed everything and you have a set date, have them help you with the packing. give them the boxes they need to pack up their room and teach them how to do it in an orderly fashion. leave them to it and check on them every few minutes. by doing this, you’re giving them the responsibility, which they’ll appreciate and associate with the move, positively reinforcing the process. then, involve them in moving their boxes to storage, so they can see where they store their belongings until you move to the new house. this makes the change real for them, so they understand and can deal with the feelings of moving their treasured possessions to their new house. shurgard is a great place to store your moving boxes because you can visit your storage area whenever you want. if there is a transition period between property a and property b, it may be worth taking a few trips with your child to your storage place, to show them that their belongings are still there and safe. moving with a growing family to avoid the same situation of moving house again in two years, sit down with your partner and talk through your plans. discuss whether you’re planning more children, and whether you will want a family pet. you should consider all these things before committing to buying a house because if you think more children are on the cards, then a two-up-two-down won’t cut it when they come along. equally a flat with no outside space probably isn’t the best choice for children and a dog either. by discussing your true intentions with your partner you’ll avoid having to go through the house moving stress again until you reach a point where you don’t necessarily need to move out, but you want to move. create a to-do list that includes the start and finish of your move a master to-do list you can work from will help keep your mind at ease, and it also ensures you are not missing out on any of the important components of moving house. divide the to-do list into main sections like decluttering, packing, hiring real estate agents/conveyancing solicitors/removal vans, and where everything will go in the new house, as well as plans for home security and interior design. then check them off each step at a time. sub-headings can include a longer description to remind you of some lesser important jobs you need do to, to complete the main job. it keeps your family in line with your plans too, so everyone is working from the same song sheet. google is your friend in this instance, as you can find some great template to-do lists on the internet. get the whole family involved armed with your master to-do list, become the project manager for the move and start creating jobs for members of the family and any other friends/family members who are kind enough to help. doing everything alone will increase your stress levels and trigger anxiety. but, if everyone is tasked with a small job then, bit by bit, you’ll see progress and stress levels will decrease immensely. plus, you’ll save time with a well-oiled plan in place and you’ll leave with a clean house ready for the next family to enjoy. start decluttering unwanted items in the house in the weeks (or months) leading up to the big move, go through each room one by one and bag/box up items you don’t really need. be brutal, the less you bring with you on the move, the cheaper your moving costs will be. plus, you stand to earn an extra bit of money if you pop your unwanted stuff on ebay/gumtree/amazon, which you can then offset against your moving costs. or, you can be super generous and drop them off at your local charity shop, so others can enjoy them instead. “one person’s trash is another person’s treasure.” hire reputable estate agents and conveyancing solicitors if you’re buying/selling a property, you will need to appoint either a solicitor or a conveyancer from the offset, to deal with the legal matters of moving. moving house starts with conveyancing, which is the legal process you go through to buy or sell your house, and this is usually carried out by a solicitor or a licensed conveyancer. it is important to note at this stage that solicitors are qualified lawyers and have received extensive training in all aspects of the law. they can also offer full legal services, including taking someone to court. a licensed conveyancer is specialised in property matters but has received less training. not that they are less qualified, they are just as capable of handling your property matters, and they also may be cheaper to use. your conveyancer/solicitor will then carry out the relevant checks on the property you’re buying and provide essential information to the buyer of your home. when everyone is happy and have agreed to all terms, all parties will sign and exchange contracts via the conveyancer/solicitor to make the moving process legally binding. once all the money has changed hands, you hand over your keys to the estate agent and pick up your new ones from the seller’s estate agent. you want this process to run as smoothly as possible so you can concentrate on the actual logistics of moving to a new house. and, to do this, you need to find someone reputable enough to handle the mammoth task. important points to note are that solicitors must be members of the law society, and conveyancers must be members of the council for licensed conveyancers. you can find a licensed conveyancer by using their name, practice/organisation or your postcode here. if you know someone that has recently moved to a new house, ask them which conveyancer/solicitor they used. were they competent enough to handle the exchange properly and quickly? did they run into any problems with the conveyancer/solicitor? would they use them again? not everyone will have the same experience, but sometimes recommendations and testimonials can be worth so much more than the sales blurb on the website. the same goes for estate agents. ask around and don’t be afraid to ask difficult questions about their expertise and knowledge. hire a removal company to pack your stuff up for you and move them to the new house if you can afford it, i would absolutely recommend hiring professionals to pack up your belongings into their moving truck and move them to the new house. they are so experienced in what they do, the moving company can have pretty much everything boxed and moved within hours. don’t forget to negotiate on the price, though. perhaps, see if the movers would spread the move over a few days for a cheaper quote. if you need a place to store your boxes, shurgard offers competitive rates to hold your items in storage, while you’re sorting out the move to property b. take care of your emotional self and encourage your children to do the same. you will experience a whole heap of emotions during this move, i know i did. i had my two boys almost back-to-back (they’re 15 months apart) and the postnatal healing took place on moving day to our first ever home as a family. i had to leave behind so many memories and, without realising it, i became depressed. even if the reasons for your move are positive, you will still experience feelings of anxiety, sadness and stress. don’t brush these feelings away, but instead realise that you are feeling them and address them one-by-one with someone close who can help. mourn the move and grieve its loss before you can then finally accept that you’re moving on to bigger and better things. if you’re moving because you’ve had to make some difficult decisions, then stay focused on the task ahead and why you are moving in the first place. say goodbye to people and places before you leave and settle any unfinished business. if you’re leaving good friends behind, then get in touch with them, say goodbye and promise to keep in touch. saying goodbye to my boys’ local playgroup was one of the hardest things i had to do, although i never expected that it would be. i went back and said goodbye to all the staff members and other mums whom i had met and became good friends with, in those last five years–and i still keep in touch with most of them now (thanks to facebook!). your children will also experience feelings they may not understand. encourage them to talk to you about how they’re feeling and allow them to express themselves in a way they feel comfortable. they need to know that what they are feeling is normal. my boys may have only been three and four years old at the time of the move, but they still harboured feelings of anger and sadness because it was the only home that they had ever known. i assured them i was also sad to leave, but i was looking forward to moving to a big new house and making new memories with them, and if they ever needed to share how they felt about the move they could at any time they wanted. so, there you have it. motherhood diaries’ top tips on how to deal with the stress of moving to a new house. as long as you give yourself enough time to plan and operate the move, and being organised with your belongings right from the beginning, you should be able to make moving to a new house a breeze. good luck! leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:moneyproperty related posts my way or the highway looking after your money after christmas how to make your rental business run smo... 7 fun ways to teach kids about saving en... how much does a wedding truly cost? 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... 7 ways to become a stylish mum the importance of saving money for the f... how to shop smart and save online with h... what do you really need for your new bab... 21 weeks pregnant – found a new jo... 27 weeks pregnant – my third trime... 23 weeks pregnant – babies come wi... how to save money on gifts this christma... 25 weeks pregnant – i have a noctu... send your child to university with ̵... how much does it cost eat like an olympi... bathrooms.com ultimate diy guide for hom... 28 weeks pregnant – i can hear my ... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok