skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress sarah gooding · february 25, 2014 · 6 comments photo credit: lori greig – cc did you know that wordpress has built-in support for subscript and superscript characters? this information is not easy to find, as it’s tucked away under the editing help page in the codex. although the wordpress editor doesn’t show subscript and superscript buttons, you can add these characters anytime using the sub or sup tags. for example, to display h20, you would write it like this: h<sub>2</sub>0 superscript characters can be added like this: my reference<sup>1</sup> that above example would display: my reference1 add subscript and superscript buttons to the visual editor there are many tinymce buttons that are disabled by default so as not to clutter up the wordpress editor with buttons that most people rarely use. if you find that you often need to add characters above or below the normal line of type, you may want to consider adding the subscript and superscript buttons to the visual editor for your own convenience. the wordpress codex section on enabling hidden mce buttons, which demonstrates how to filter the button list. you can create a quick functionality plugin using the snippet below: function my_mce_buttons_2($buttons) {	
	/**
	 * add in a core button that's disabled by default
	 */
	$buttons[] = 'sup';
	$buttons[] = 'sub';

	return $buttons;
}
add_filter('mce_buttons_2', 'my_mce_buttons_2'); filtering mce_buttons_2 will add the buttons to the second line in the visual editor. filtering mce_buttons_3 will display the added buttons on a third line. for more technical writing that goes beyond basic subscript and superscript characters, you may need to employ an additional tool such as the open source latex typesetting system. latex makes it possible to post complex scientific and mathematical equations. jetpack includes a latex module and the wordpress plugin directory also has a wide assortment of latex plugins. share this: click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on telegram (opens in new window) click to share on whatsapp (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) like this: like loading... posted in tutorials tagged latex, subscript, superscript 6 comments keith davis february 25, 2014, 11:46 am worth knowing sarah i notice that you are in visual mode there – do you work in visual mode? i always work in text mode and disable the visual mode so that i don’t activate it by mistake and mess up the html. loading... report sarah gooding february 25, 2014, 11:48 am i usually work in text mode / distraction free writing. loading... report jeff chandler february 27, 2014, 1:27 am have you ever used a theme that utilizes editor-style.css? if not, you should try it sometime with the visual editor enabled. in most cases this style sheet will match the content within the visual editor to what you would see on a published post. it’s reignited my interest and use of the visual editor. i don’t stick with one or the other. i switch between the two when it makes sense. being able to use keyboard shortcuts in the visual editor is enough to get me to use it. loading... report mrwweb february 25, 2014, 5:29 pm this is a good tip. modifying the tinymce editor is great for sites where clients have limited or specific formatting needs. in wordpress 3.9, tinymce is moving to version 4.0 and the above code snippet won’t work anymore (at least as of testing today). instead, you’ll need to use “superscript” and “subscript” instead of “sup” and “sub.” a full list of buttons is here: http://www.tinymce.com/wiki.php/controls loading... report sean october 2, 2014, 9:43 am great tip, thanks! one note, from wordpress.org: http://codex.wordpress.org/tinymce_custom_buttons#enabling_hidden_mce_buttons “as of wordpress 3.9 and tinymce 4.0 sup has been renamed to superscript and sub has been renamed to subscript.” loading... report hoopkjaz january 4, 2015, 9:22 am hi sarah, i added this code to my themes functions.php file and the icons do not show up. is the functions.php file the correct place to put the code? or is there something else that i need to do? thanks loading... report comments are closed. recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. %d bloggers like this: