video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map real entrepreneurs how to launch your product without sinking your savings sonia and bill massey's company timeaway llc aims help small businesses with big ideas get started. next article --shares add to queue grow your business, not your inbox stay informed and join our daily newsletter now! email will be used in accordance with our privacy policy image credit: timeaway llc entrepreneur staff entrepreneur staff february 13, 2020 4 min read in this ongoing series, we are sharing advice, tips and insights from real entrepreneurs who are out there doing business battle on a daily basis. (answers have been edited and condensed for clarity.) who are you and what’s your business? we are bill and sonia massey, president and cmo of timeaway llc, a consulting company specializing in product development. our mission is to assist our customers with bringing their ideas or concepts to reality without overhauling their purse. we produce practical products at a reasonable price like our award-winning flagship product the restroom kit®. what inspired you to create this business? before 2008 like many entrepreneurs sonia and i participated in the booming real estate market until it folded. after the collapse, we researched many opportunities before deciding to start another business of our own. essentially, we wanted to be involved in a recession-proof business. we knew many creative people needed assistance in developing their idea the same as we did. having gone through the struggle developing the restroom kit, timeaway was a natural progression for us. related: this solar-powered electric bike aims to improve your commute and fitness what was your aha moment? we've had many aha moments bringing timeaway and the restroom kit together. initially, the restroom kit was a product developed for family outings and vacations with the kids. while on a bus trip my younger sister sold one of my prototype toilet seat covers to a fellow passenger, which was totally unexpected. with that, we researched the travel and health industries, spoke with a couple of mentors then decided to move forward with developing our flagship product the restroom kit. what advice would you give entrepreneurs looking for funding? the advice we would give to entrepreneurs would be to look to family and friends first. our initial attempt at seeking funds was via crowdfunding. we didn’t have much success because of a minimal following. we did find success in pitching our friends and family. anyone who’s investing in you wants to know that you’re all in before they invest. they are investing in you initially; your product hasn’t done anything special yet.you were on a recent episode of elevator pitch. any pitching advice? when preparing to pitch your product confidence is one of the most important assets you have. no one knows your product or service as well as you do. some key points to remember, let your audience know who you are (introduce the company), what does the product or service do, why should they invest, what industry will you affect and what are some statistical facts about the industry?related: these music innovators are shredding the industry's obsession with the past how did it feel the first day you opened for business? our first day of business was nerve-racking and exciting at the same time. although we’re an 85% online business, waiting to receive that initial order was intense, but during our prelaunch, we had one customer purchase over 2000 units of the restroom kit. that let us know we had something special. the consulting wing of the business took a little longer to pick up, but it did. what was your toughest challenge and how did you overcome it? the toughest challenge was finding a reasonable manufacturer. we negotiated with companies that made promises they couldn’t deliver. we’d agree on deliverables templates, prototypes or samples which they overcharge and under-delivered. we overcame those challenges by doing our due diligence deeper research; asking the right questions; hiring companies that we could visit frequently.related: this 19-year-old entrepreneur is exposing the secrets of the billion dollar underground sneaker market is there a particular quote or saying that you use as personal motivation? what is it and explain how it inspires you sonia: "keep going through your nos because they will get you to your yesses quicker." this inspires me because every customer i received a no from is going to bring me closer to the yes customers. bill: "rome wasn’t built in a day. it was built every day." more from entrepreneur get heaping discounts to books you love delivered straight to your inbox. we’ll feature a different book each week and share exclusive deals you won’t find anywhere else. sign up now jumpstart your business. entrepreneur insider is your all-access pass to the skills, experts, and network you need to get your business off the ground—or take it to the next level. join now are you paying too much for business insurance? do you have critical gaps in your coverage? trust entrepreneur to help you find out. get your quote now related books the power of passive income buy from the power of passive income buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read success is easy buy from success is easy buy from amazon indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read start your own photography business buy from start your own photography business buy from amazon ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read start your own business buy from start your own business buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read start your own freelance writing business buy from start your own freelance writing business buy from amazon ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read start your own etsy business buy from start your own etsy business buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read latest on entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account real entrepreneurs need a mental break? the 'meet cute' podcast delivers rom-com escape in 15-minute bursts real entrepreneurs have a great product? don't be afraid to dismantle it to build a better one. real entrepreneurs this fitness entrepreneur is poised to go big and wants your help real entrepreneurs this solar-powered electric bike aims to make commuting eco-friendly and fun business ideas looking for a business idea? turn what other people complain about into an opportunity.