start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising motivation mental strength advertising last updated on march 11, 2020 how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out kristina voegele author and success coach | founder of grit & grace living | creator of the writerpreneur workshop read full profile share pin it tweet share email i was weeping in bed for the third time that week and i’ve never been a crier. but eight months after having my daughter, and four months after going back to work, the motivation and energy i’d originally felt returning to my job had completely subsided and i’d hit a wall of fatigue and exhaustion of epic proportions. as i sat there red faced and sobbing in my pajamas (a great look for me), my poor husband laid there staring at the wall, not sure what to say at this point. he’d already told me i should leave my job multiple times during previous crying sessions. but instead of feeling relieved by his blessing, it only made me feel guiltier and cry even more. i could never quit, i thought to myself. what if he’d resent me for not bringing in income eventually? i was afraid of being perceived as lazy. plus we live in an area of the country that pretty much requires dual incomes to live comfortably. how could i leave a steady paycheck and put that kind of pressure on him? plus i had some people’s dream job! why couldn’t i just be more grateful! so i cried. because i felt trapped. i wondered how to find motivation because i felt so tired but couldn’t not be a mom, or work, or keep showing up in my life. but i felt like i was failing at all of it and in that moment i just wanted to disappear. burnt out? you’re not alone. have you been there–so burnt out and exhausted that it’s hard to remember a time when you were bright eyed and optimistic, motivated to take on the world? if you’re feeling unmotivated, tired and lost, and have still found your way to this article, i already know two things about you: you’re more motivated than you think you are; and you’re going to come out on top. how do i know this? because you’re burnt out enough to read an article about burn out but you still found the motivation to find it and read it. you’re actively taking action to stay motivated, which actually means you are motivated! yay you! now that we’ve established you are motivated to get to a more energized place, let’s get down to the practical strategies i applied to pull myself out of my epic rut so you can start applying them to your own life asap. how i find motivation with “the princess bride” strategy when i think about my experience with burn out, i can’t help but get a visual of when the hero wesley is declared “mostly dead” in the classic 80’s movie the princess bride.[1] (if you haven’t seen the princess bride, keep reading because it’s not critical to understanding the strategies. but, also, it’s a classic, please see the movie! sounds like you could use a break anyway!) in case you haven’t seen the movie, let’s set the scene: our hero wesley is flat on his back, seemingly lifeless with heavy limbs and no strength left in his body after being tortured to (almost) dead. hope is bleak. it this point it seems impossible he has any fight left in him to take on his nemesis prince humperdink and rescue his lady love buttercup. advertising but with the remaining air in his lungs, he mutters two words: true love. this leads us to the first strategy for finding motivation even when you’re completely burnt out: 1. focus on your true love our hero wesley had one thing that motivated all of his actions, princess buttercup: his true love. if you really think about it, the same is true for you. whether it’s an actual person (or people) or a passion, remember your why. what is your reason for rising from this rut? who or what was your motivation for reading this article? there’s something driving you to not stay stuck. there are some people who are counting on you or some mission that’s bigger than you that provide a clear purpose for everything you do. all of your efforts should be focused on your true love and getting back to being the person who can show up for that noble cause. knowing your true love is your compass. whenever you’re feeling lost or uninspired, remembering the people or passion that make you uniquely you gives you that sense of purpose that you need to feel motivated to rise, even when you feel like you have nothing left. in my case, i had to eventually realize that my true love (my husband) wanted his true love back–not this sobbing, miserable zombie i’d become. like the old adage goes, “happy wife, happy life.” as a bonus, you can find out more about this point here: how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up when i realized that my complete lack of motivation and burn out was really affecting him, i knew it was time to get to the root of what was really wrong which leads us to step 2: 2. identify your true adversary (and focus your limited energy there) there’s always someone or something that has to be defeated in every hero’s journey. in the case of our hero wesley, he had to defeat prince humperdink in order to rescue his true love buttercup. this singular mission helped him reserve his energy for the most critical moment, when he finally met humperdink face to face. advertising in the case of your burn out, there is most likely a root cause that has to be addressed in order to reclaim your motivation. getting clear on what that is will prevent you from running around trying to fix every aspect of your life and allow you to simply focus on the one or two things that are really the reason everything’s feeling so hard. when you’re truly burnt out it’s likely that it’s negatively impacted multiple areas of your life so it may feel impossible to identify the root cause of your struggles at the moment. i know i felt that way. my health was the worst it had ever been, my social life was bleak because i didn’t have the energy for fun or making plans, my career was stressing me out, being a new mom was hard… and so on. here’s my advice on how to get the root cause of your burn out: do a gut check. what are the first 3 reasons that you think have caused you to burn out? what were the first things that popped into your mind? write them down! if you’re stuck, you can also rank each of the following categories of your life from 1-10 (10 being awesome, 1 being awful): career family friends money contribution personal growth spiritual life health romance fun the aspects of your life with the lowest numbers should help you identify the true root cause of your burn out. ask yourself, why is that area a 1? one way to really figure out what’s wrong is to imagine what a 10 would be to you in that area. for example, if you rank your job a 2, what would a 10 be to you? describe it in as much detail as possible and compare it to your current situation. for example, maybe your 10 job would be remote but your current job forces you to commute and travel constantly. this has the potential to affect every area of your life but really, the solution to most of your woes is to get a job that lets you work from home and doesn’t require so much travel. when you’re clear on what’s not working, you can start to see a way out, which leads us to step 3: 3. remember you’re the hero it would have been easy for wesley to play the victim. after all, he literally was tortured to death and endured unimaginable pain in the pit of despair. but instead of focusing on what had happened to him in the past, as soon as wesley was brought back to life, he focused on what needed to be done in order to get his girl. he remembered he was the hero, despite how things may have felt or appeared in the moment. advertising when we’re burnt out, it’s easy to want to play the blame game or feel victimized by our circumstances. i’ve been there. the thing is that isn’t motivating because it prevents us from having any agency or creative point of view on our situation. if anything is going to change in our life, we have to always remember that we’re the hero of our own stories. despite what circumstances come at us, our responses are 100% our responsibility. in my case, i knew the commute and stress from my job was one of the major sources of my burn out. i also knew something was wrong with my health but didn’t have any answers or solutions yet. what was clear was that the stress i was feeling wasn’t going to get any better if i kept doing what i was doing. what i really wanted to do was leave my job and start my own business from home. but it felt too selfish. even though my husband told me to leave my job, for some reason i still felt the obligation to make myself a living sacrifice for our family. but one night after weeks of having to take naps in the mother’s room at work just to make it through the day, it dawned on me that i was the reason i was miserable. i’d convinced myself that my husband didn’t mean what he said, that i had to stay at my job for him; but the truth was i had to give myself permission to make the changes i needed to make to be happier. he’d already done that! the only thing trapping me was… me. i had to save myself. he couldn’t fix my health. he couldn’t resign for me. i had to do the work and perhaps i was using him as an excuse because in admitting i needed a break or help, in my mind i was admitting weakness. i was afraid to be that vulnerable and to ask for and expect his complete love and support when i wasn’t “working for it”. i was more comfortable playing the victim of my circumstances and falling on my noble sword because somehow in my mind it made me feel strong. can you relate? if so, spend time to answer these questions: if you’re honest with yourself, have you been playing the hero or the victim of your story? claiming your role of hero, what’s your next play? what are you secretly wanting permission for that you need to grant yourself? once you take complete responsibility for your circumstances and for saving yourself, there’s another key thing you’ll need: advertising 4. accept help from your friends our hero wesley was “mostly dead” and unable to walk, feed himself or hold his head up when his friends inigo and fezzik found him. if it wasn’t for them, he would have died in the pit of despair. but they held him up, found miracle max, advocated for a remedy and carried him on their backs until he could stand on his own again. my story is no different. in order to find my motivation again and recover from burn out it required me to rely on my husband more than i ever had before. it also required doctors, life coaches and the support of friends and family. it required me to give up my attachment to being tough and not needing help. but at the end of the day, i figured out my happiness and being fully honest with myself about my limitations was the only way to have what i really wanted: myself back. sometimes showing weakness is the ultimate show of strength. you are the hero and you’re also human. none of us can do this on our own, nor are we supposed to. when you’re burnt out, it’s important to ask for help and seek out a support system while you find your way back to yourself. final thoughts remember, burn out happens to all of us from time to time and we just can’t get motivated. sometimes, finding your motivation again requires making a huge life change, as in my case. but sometimes, it can be fixed with a new habit as simple as shutting down your computer, putting your phone out of sight and giving yourself some down time. my burn out was severe and it took overhauling my entire life to dig my way out. but i’m so much more motivated, re-energized and happier for it. if you’re feeling overwhelmed with all of the responsibilities on your plate and with all of things you’re thinking you need to change, remember to focus on the one thing that’s going to make the biggest impact. you can do it too: how to start over and reboot your life when it seems too late my thing was leaving my full time job. which, after months stressing about it, was accomplished in one 10 minute conversation with my manager. and as soon as i did it i instantly felt more motivated and relieved. save your precious energy for only doing the things that truly matter right now and your motivation will start coming back sooner than you thought possible. more about finding motivation why is internal motivation so powerful (and how to find it) how to stay motivated and reach your big goals in life no motivation? 7 great ways to overcome loss of motivation featured photo credit: pexels via pexels.com reference [1] ^ the princess bride, reiner et al., 1987 share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up why is internal motivation so powerful (and how to find it) how to start over and reboot your life when it seems too late advertising advertising more by this author kristina voegele author and success coach | founder of grit & grace living | creator of the writerpreneur workshop how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out how to use the 5 minute journal to invest in your happiness how to use more of your brain to become more productive and happy advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author kristina voegele author and success coach | founder of grit & grace living | creator of the writerpreneur workshop how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out how to use the 5 minute journal to invest in your happiness how to use more of your brain to become more productive and happy trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next why showing vulnerability actually proves your strength the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) advertising advertising podcast mental strength advertising last updated on march 26, 2020 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email in this episode of the lifehack show our guest is nicole lovald, former corporate addict turned yogi, life coach, and self-care advocate. she is the author of the book om sweet om: a corporate junkie's search for enlightenment . nicole has a background in counseling veterans, at-risk children, and victims of trauma as she has always been passionate about helping people overcome adversity and change their limiting beliefs into a more progress based mindset. here she shares her insights on how yoga can act as the ultimate form of stress relief and help you change your life. listen to the episode here: view on you tube featured photo credit: lāsma artmane via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.