skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us how to come up with a great blog name in 30 minutes! alex nerney updated: 3/24/20 • comments: 37 home » create and go blog » blogging basics » how to come up with a great blog name in 30 minutes! disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin189 shares189 how does coming up with a great blog name in your niche without spending countless hours to get your creative juices flowing? we’ve started several websites over the last few years and watched countless others rise to success, and we’ve learned something super important along the way: your actual domain name matters far less than you think it does. say what!? as a new blogger, you probably think that your blog name is the most important part of your website. i know we spent hours trying to come up with something catchy and cool on our first couple of websites. but here’s the secret: your content is what really defines your blog — not your domain name. more on that in a minute! here is what we will cover in this article: table of contents close open why your domain name doesn’t matter that much what to consider before choosing your blog name get your blog domain name in 30 minutes or less still need some more help? try our blog name generator! why your domain name doesn’t matter that much sure, it helps to have a memorable domain name for your readers to go back to. but overall, it’s not that important. a blog with a great domain name can have sh*t content and a blog with a poopy domain name can have great content and be super successful. we’ve encountered both and i can tell you with certainty that it’s the content that matters. here’s a real-life example from our health and wellness blog. settling on the domain name wasn’t our finest moment. this domain name is: not even a real word hard to spell hard to pronounce and therefore hard to type into a browser or recommend to others every time someone asked us what our website was, we would go through the process of trying to explain it and were usually met with blank stares. but despite all of this, we were still able to consistently earn over $20,000/month with this blog! because we have great content and a great product. our customers love our content and our products get them results. at the end of the day, that is the only thing that really matters! i tell you all of this because i don’t want you to get super hung up on this stage of starting your blog. find something that works for you and move on to the next step! okay now that we have all of this in mind, let’s get started finding you a great blog name! p.s. if you haven’t decided yet on what the heck you’re blogging about, make sure to check out our article on finding your blog niche first! what to consider before choosing your blog name let’s first start out with some advice based on what we have learned from hunting down domain names in the past. lesson 1. most “normal” blog names or ideas you have will be taken. they will be taken by other people or worse: domain squatters. domain squatters are people that buy up domain names that they believe will be valuable enough to re-sell back to individuals at a profit. so, you might see that a domain name is available, but it will cost you a couple of thousand dollars to purchase. i doubt you would do this anyway because you probably don’t have that kind of money lying around, but in case it isn’t clear… please don’t! find another domain name that doesn’t cost a bomb! and if you’re really set on a certain name, consider this next idea. lesson 2. use a .com or .co there are a lot of websites selling weird domain names these days. i recently saw a facebook ad to buy domains like alex.fitness or jimmy.eats. don’t fall for this trap. you don’t want a period or a dash or anything out of the ordinary in your domain name. if you want more availability to choose from, consider a .co instead of a .com. fun fact: this website was originally a .co (createandgo.co). we had it that way for a couple of years, actually. this was because the .com was taken and we didn’t want to pay for it. we only decided to purchase the .com a couple of years later when we had the money to invest back into our business. the tradeoff is that a .com will always look a little better than a .co. and it’s more natural to type into a web browser because it’s more common. but there has been a huge increase in .co domains in the last few years. and we took this blog to six-figures with a .co name! here are a few other great examples of .co domain names: wifitribe.co (the group that i travel around the world with!) brit.co (a popular lifestyle blog) roam.co (an international co-living company) okay, let’s dive into the good stuff! get your blog domain name in 30 minutes or less for all of you preferred video learners out there, here is a quick video on this topic from our youtube channel below. 1. gather a list of random words related to your niche. start by gathering a list of words related to your main topic (or broad focus): parenting. parents. kids. children. parenting tips. raising kids. home. 2. use an online thesaurus to get some other ideas. this will help you gather even more words and ideas for a great blog name. produce. mother. guardian. folks. creator. source. boy. girl. adolescent. youngster. offspring. household. 3. add some slang words for fun! kiddos. rents. parental units. parent trap. casa. 5. add some descriptive verbs. cook. clean. teach. love. nurture. help. guide. raise. 5. add some related adjectives. beautiful. friendly. maternal. passionate. resourceful. 6. consider including your name. kim. kimmy. cook. clean. teach. love. nurture. help. guide. 7. mix and match and see what you come up with! kimmyshome.com. mommiesandkiddos.com. hommiercasa.com. highlevelparenting.com. nurturedyoungins.com. kimsfinallyhome.com. kimsparenttrap.com. resourcefulmomzilla.com. it may take several tries to find something available that you like, but don’t get discouraged! once you find a few that you like, try them in the bluehost domain lookup tool to see if it’s available: once you have the domain name, you are ready to go! still need some more help? try our blog name generator! you can also check out our new blog name generator: you can add your topic or choose from popular topics. the generator will also suggest keywords to help you. related: how to start a blog (step-by-step guide) if you have any comments or questions for us on this article about how to come up with a great blog name, please leave them in the comment section below! we’d love to hear from you! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin189 shares189 about alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. read this next how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) open this window to get started with bluehost now.start with bluehost nowstart now are you looking for a simple, step-by-step guide to how to start a blog and actually make money from it!? our free guide on this page will show you how to create a blog that is beautiful and functional, all in an easy step-by-step […] keep reading > similar articles blogging basics how much does it really cost to start a blog? (2020 update) 10 popular and profitable blog niches that still work in 2020 how much do bloggers make? like, really? [2020 edition] what is a blog? blogging & how it works (simple guide) see all blog posts 37 leave a reply 18 comment threads 19 thread replies 1 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 21 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest el typo: “every time someone asked us what our website was, we would go through the process of trying to explain it and were usually meant [met] with blank stares.” amazing blog, great work! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 14 hours ago admin alex and lauren thanks! i’ll get that fixed 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 minutes ago guest laura this is so helpful, thank you! do you have any insight on using acronyms, such as sahm? my target audience is stay-at-home-moms specifically, not just moms in general. incorporating stayathomemom into a blog name would make it quite long. i have a feeling it’s best to avoid acronyms – but wanted to check! of course, your post give me plenty of ideas without including sahm or stayathomemom if neither of these phrases is ideal. thanks again! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 days ago admin alex and lauren acronyms such as sahm are popular enough that people know what they mean. i think it’s fine in that case 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 day ago guest cole jackson can i change my domain name to one that i already own? if so then how? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 23 days ago admin alex and lauren hey cole, you should contact your host to see how to migrate your site to another domain. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 21 days ago guest michael and meandy thanks for all of the wonderful tips and tricks! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago admin alex and lauren you are very welcome! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 months ago guest chrystal rose alex & lauren, thanks for all the great tips. i’m planning on doing a pet blog (yes,i know there are more than i can count). but i planing on doing a specialty ecommerce website to advertise on our blog, and another thing that may be set us apart is i have no “human kids” only my ” puppy-dog kids”. lol i’m especially proud of this and i make sure people understand, since most of the time people think i’m referring real children. “gosh honey we’ve been in the store for two hours and the girls are in the car. do… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren hey chrystal! i think you have a great idea and if your love of pets comes through on your blog as much as it comes through here, you should have no problem finding your audience. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest jerry peres thanks for sharing helpful info about best web hosting companies. this post will help out many people who wants to buy web hosting services like me. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren awesome! glad you found it helpful 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest rosen this was a great read and i enjoyed every bit of it. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks, rosen! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest marko acenco hello . your article is great. thank you for your hard work you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago admin alex and lauren great to hear! thank you so much 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 5 months ago guest daryl why do my comments keep disappearing?! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago admin alex and lauren hey, daryl. i’m not sure. i checked our spam and trash comment folder and did not see any comments from you there. we were having some technical difficulties during the last two weeks that may have caused a problem with your comments. sorry for the inconvenience. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago guest daryl chapman i already have a website and hosting set up but still trying to come up with a domain name so right now i still have the temporary one bluehost gave me. everything i look up is taken and it’s kind of slowing me down a bit. any suggestions? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago admin alex and lauren hey, daryl. have you tried using .co or .net? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago guest daryl yes and every possible domain name i try in bluehost is taken, it really shouldn’t be taking this long to come up with a domain name. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago guest pat don’t see much about teaching or education as a niche. i’m a retired teacher with 43 years under my belt and lots of energy i can share. thought this would be a good way to bridge old school with new. i have to confess the retirement salary for teachers is not so great. hoping i can make a little on the side to supplement. i certainly have enjoyed the learning process and just “bought into” blue host. thanks for all the information and help. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago admin alex and lauren hey, pat. i actually see quite a bit in the teaching niche. my initial question would be, who is your specific audience? public school educators? home educators? parents? and then ask yourself, what problem you would like to solve for them? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago admin alex and lauren thanks! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago guest pat brown my experience comes in public ed. but i do think i can provide useful info to moms and grands as well. i’m kind of a small group, hands on type. will keep looking into teacher blogs. i just bought into bluehost and am exploring. wow, overwhelming. so, thanks for all your help and tips you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 6 months ago admin alex and lauren happy to hear you enjoyed the article. with 20 years of travel experience, it sounds like you do have the expertise for a travel blog 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago guest bram stoker hi, its a great post, personally i prefer blog post with shorter names because they are bit catchy, secondly i learned this on wpblog that .com domain names get better value at the time of resale. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest priya kale interesting is definitely something i need to learn more about! it seems overwhelming, now i can easily figure it out new and creative blog name. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren glad it helped, priya! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest melanie that link only lets me try a few names then no more unless i sign up you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey melanie, if you use our step-by-step tutorial (which can be found in our article titled “how to start a blog in 2019 [9 simple & easy steps for complete beginners] takes 30 minutes or less!”) you can start the process and test as many names as you’d like. you will need to sign up for bluehost, but you only need the basic plan. with our affiliate link (also found in the article), it’s only $2.75/month! -lauren you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest cheri walser hey alex, love all the amazing information on starting a blog. i am a first timer and very excited. i have done a lot of reading and watched several of your videos and signed up for your class. however, while reading your niche article and then following up with your blog names article i really didn’t get a good sense for successful diy type blogs. the blog i have in mind is not solely diy but will have quite a bit. is this not a hot niche or is it really dependent on your main subject? also, i have done… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey, cheri! we can’t advise on these matters for every particular niche and sub-niche because there are just so many out there (most of which we are unfamiliar with or certainly far from experts on)! the best thing that you can do is to do some independent research on other successful diy bloggers. one of them is this site: https://diyprojects.com/ we have been following them for over a year, and they make tons of money every month. one of the best ways to figure out how a blog is making their money is by signing up for their email list… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest mary you guys are awesome! i just found you today and have spent the afternoon devouring your great content! i am in the beginning stages of my second blog attempt! it is hard to pick yourself up and try again. so glad to read your story. thank you for being so vulnerable. i just wanted to add something to your post here. the blog name i wanted (and loved) was taken by someone wanting to sell it for $2000 (so not used). i simply added an “s” to the end and made it plural. it worked! not my first choice, since… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren that’s great, mary!! it’s frustrating to come across that just because people want to make a quick buck, but i’m glad you found a workaround! 😉 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest matt hey guys, i just found this site last week and have been hooked since. you’ve literally hit all the questions i’ve had so far about starting a blog and i can’t wait for your new course to come out soon. question on blog names – what’s your opinion on using your own name for the blog? i’ve seen arguments for an against online so i was curious what you thought. thanks! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 years ago admin alex and lauren hey matt, thanks! to answer your question, it’s really a personal branding choice. it works really well for some people. it just depends on what your business is and how you are trying to market your brand. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 years ago guest gabs hello! this is a great post! i want to start a blog but since my first language is spanish and i feel more confident writing in spanish, whould it be profitable that way? i live in california but i am latina. i would appreciate your advice;) gracias!!! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 years ago admin alex and lauren hey gabs! here’s the deal with the language thing as it relates to blogs. you will have access to more readers if you write in english, but you also have to compete with everyone else out there in your niche. if you write in spanish, you will have access to a much smaller reader base, but there is far less competition as well. so your reader base will be smaller, but they will likely be much more devoted to your blog. so as you can see, there are pros and cons to both. so it’s really up to you! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 years ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents why your domain name doesn’t matter that much what to consider before choosing your blog name get your blog domain name in 30 minutes or less still need some more help? try our blog name generator! footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz