home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress tips tips for writers by marissa decuir editor’s note: we don’t normally publish posts from companies, but in these stressful times we want to help writetodone readers as much as possible. as many of us are forced to stay at home, here’s one company that might just be able to make that time less stressful. please note: writetodone has no affiliation with books forward, we just hope this information will help you 🙂 joining a virtual book club could help deal with coronavirus stress we know things are stressful right now––many of us are anxiously scrolling through news updates, rationing supplies, wondering how we’ll fill our time, newly unemployed or working from home. social distancing does not mean you have to be lonely or isolated. thanks to the internet, we have more ways than ever to connect, engage and share with each other in real time–and now is an opportunity to join a virtual book club and bond with friends online over a good read! virtual book clubs are seeing a big surge right now, and we can see why. books help you relax, stimulate your brain and make the hours pass quickly–plus, they’re perfect for sparking conversations and dialogue online. here are some tips for joining–or creating!–an awesome online book club during this unpredictable time and unprecedented health crisis. how do i find a virtual book club to join? there are so many options, it can be hard to know where to start. check out this list of virtual book clubs to find one that may be right for you: book riot’s list of “15 best virtual book clubs” has a club for all reading preferences, from a feminist reading club created by emma watson to groups for history lovers, new adult fiction and more. the quarantine book club is hosting daily discussions with authors on a range of diverse, interesting topics (tickets are $5). goodreads has a dedicated community of online groups for any of your favorite genres, as well as librarything which has dropped membership fees for the time being. want more recommendations? despite some overlap, bustle and celedon have also compiled lists of online clubs! i’m already part of an in-person book club. how do we “go virtual” and meet online? if you want to meet virtually with your already-established book club, refinery29 has some excellent tips for moving your club online, including: keep to a set schedule and theme just as you would if you were meeting in person. it can also help to create an online calendar to share with the group. make sure everyone has access to the selected book. check out the books forward step-by-step instruction guides for how to download ebooks / audiobooks from independent bookstores and libraries from home. still have questions? call our #booksforwardhelpline and we’ll walk you through it! choose an online platform to host your meeting. you can host group video calls for anywhere between 10 and 32 people using skype, google hangouts, facetime, snapchat or facebook messenger group calls. consider creating a group account for your club on goodreads, where you can a). open the club to new members who are seeking to bond with other booklovers right now, and/or b). have access to an easy built-in forum for members to chat and share their thoughts in real-time. i’d love for my book club to connect with authors directly. how do i arrange for authors to “visit” my online book club? with the cancellation of book signings and literary talks, authors are being hit hard by the quarantine like everyone else. writers love to connect with readers, and you can invite an author to join your virtual book club for a video call! at books forward we have many authors available to join book clubs for online discussions, including: usa today bestselling suspense novelist jenny milchan, a celebrated national speaker who can also keynote (virtually for now!) with writers groups the nina daughter author tori eldridge, who provides a special book club kit on her website for her “best mystery books of the year”-heralded thriller award-winning dna of democracy author richard c. lyons, who looks back at the historically distinctive dna that has shaped our democracy today celebrated author roy freirich, with a debut that could be paired with a viewing of its major motion picture adaptation, and a brand new psychological thriller release wall street journal bestselling thriller author emily bleeker, who offers engaging discussion questions on her website for each of her lauded releases positive aging advocate stephanie raffelock, whose accompanying podcast offers more opportunity for engaging as she inspires readers to celebrate each moment historical fiction mastermind michelle cameron, who schedules skype visits to celebrate the two courageous women of different faiths in her newest coming-of-age story dark comedy novelist brandy ferner, a brave mind who shows there is no topic she’s too afraid to explore around the relentlessness of motherhood debut talent alice early, who takes readers to the magical caribbean island of nevis in her cross-genre literary tale cozy mystery favorite debra h. goldstein, who will share book-themed recipes and have your book club members laughing through the meeting divorce lawyer and family therapist david and julie bulitt, who bring a unique perspective and especially helpful expertise on the extra “togetherness” families will experience in the coming months we’ve also put together a curated reading list of some of our favorite books across multiple genres; there’s plenty here to get you started! whether you’re eager for wellness advice or wanting to take a break from coronavirus news, we’ve got something for everyone. and there’s more. if you prefer a certain genre, email [email protected] or reach out via our instagram (instagram.com/booksforwardpr). we’ll help connect you with your next great read – and a virtual author visit! we’ve also put together a curated reading list of some of our favorite books across multiple genres; there’s plenty here to get you started! whether you’re eager for wellness advice or wanting to take a break from coronavirus news, we’ve got something for everyone. want something even more fun and interactive? join our newly launched and ongoing #booksforward reading challenge. we’ll be discussing new books every week, in line with suggested themes that may spark inspiration for your own club’s next read! tweet pin share related posts you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane about the author marissa decuir a former award-winning journalist, marissa decuir now helps authors share their stories and messages with the world as president and partner of books forward publicity and books fluent publishing. under the 20-year-old jks communications brand, the companies are committed to elevating voices, breaking barriers, and promoting books that empower, inspire, and move the world forward. ←previous post join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here visualize, organize, and write anything faster and easier than ever before! writer's blocks is simple, powerful writing software that makes your writing faster, easier and smarter. grab the fully-functional free trial of writer's blocks here writing for life workshops master the craft of fiction writing. popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera market your writing qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >