skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us how to get more followers on pinterest (how we got 200,000+) lauren mcmanus updated: 1/22/20 • comments: 18 home » create and go blog » grow your blog » how to get more followers on pinterest (how we got 200,000+) disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin286 shares286 whether you are a newbie or consider yourself an advanced user, everybody is always looking for how to get more followers on pinterest. so, you’re looking at your abysmal 100 and something followers on pinterest and wondering how the heck you’re ever going to get traffic to your blog… or maybe you’re looking at your 4.1k followers and comparing yourself to the 200k+ followers your competitors have. it can be majorly depressing. i get it. i’ve been there. it felt like i would never climb out of the depths of that “beginner status.” i searched high and low for this type of article when i first started on pinterest. looking for someone to give me that “magic recipe” for skyrocketing my growth on pinterest. i’m here to tell you that there isn’t any magic recipe. but that isn’t to say that there aren’t things that you can do to speed up the process. and you can catch up with those power pinners and even blow past them. i know because i did it. i was able to reach the 100,000-follower mark within the first 2 years on pinterest on one of our accounts, and it now has over 200,000 followers. but is that because you started “early?” partly so. the algorithm has changed a lot. but it has swung in many different directions. pinterest changes things a lot and there have been many periods of slow growth and fast growth and then back to slow growth. how the follower game works you have to have followers to get followers, right? for most platforms, yes. follower growth is usually pretty exponential once you get going and start pleasing what i call the “algorithm gods.” it usually goes something like this: one month to get your first 100 followers 3 weeks for your next 100 1 week for your next 100 finally, 100+ in one day and now you’re left wondering how you will ever catch up… it’s a game. if you play it better, you will jump ahead. that’s exactly what we did. i remember starting out on the bottom and looking at those with a few thousand followers with utter and complete jealousy. but along the way, i looked back at some of those accounts and realized that i had blown past them — and i was continuing to do so at an accelerated rate. before i get into how to get more followers — i want to share my story with you first, so you have a better idea of how i got started on pinterest. table of contents close open 1. optimize your pinterest account for search. 2. use tailwind tribes to increase your reach. 3. focus on engagement, not followers. 4. create new and better pinterest pins. 5. use analytics to track your stats. how i got started on pinterest hey there! my name is lauren, and i’m one half of the create and go team. alex, my business partner, is the youtube guy, and i’m the pinterest gal. the first blog that alex and i started was in the health and wellness blog space. we made six figures with our blog in the first year — mainly due to the gobs of pinterest traffic we were getting! we teach those traffic strategies along with our monetization strategies on this blog, create and go. we teach from the standpoint of this blog because we believe it’s more relatable to our customers to teach about a totally different niche than the one that we are writing from. related: how to write an amazing blog post (blog writing) the strategies that we discuss in this article come from growing both of our accounts. at the time of writing this article, our pinterest account was just about to hit the 200k mark. before we get into these strategies for gaining followers, i will put a little disclaimer out there. you have to put in work to get here. we were only able to grow this quickly because we made pinterest our top priority. the pinterest traffic helped us grow our email list, which helped us get to know our audience better, which helped us better sell our products. it can all be traced back to the traffic! we structure our blog content and strategies around what works well on pinterest, and you would be wise to do the same if pinterest is your main traffic source. one last thing before i tell you my strategies to get more followers… i want to explain why followers don’t matter. why pinterest followers don’t really matter say whaaaaat!? that’s correct. they don’t really matter. not as much as you think they do anyway. why is this? because pinterest is mainly a search engine. sure, there is a follower and home feed factor in there as well. pinterest serves up great content in your home feed and some of that content comes from people that you follow. so followers do matter. but you know what matters more? your content. if you focus more on getting more traffic, the followers will come. our followers have always increased consistently with an increase in traffic. your focus should be on putting the best content out there on pinterest. that’s your magic recipe for fast followers. but here are some tips for increasing that growth. 1. optimize your pinterest account for search. there is a reason this tip is #1 on our list of how to get more followers on pinterest. optimizing your content for search is the quickest way to increase your visibility, followers, and reach on pinterest. pinterest is jquery search-based. what does that mean? unlike facebook or instagram, users tell this social media platform exactly what they want to see. you don’t hop on facebook and type in “yoga workout for beginners.” so how do you get your content more visibility? you use keyword research to find what keywords people are searching for. there are tons of keyword research tools for bloggers out there, but you can also just use the pinterest search feature: you can see in the above example that when you type “yoga” in the search bar, pinterest also suggests additional, related topics that people are searching for. if you click on “yoga poses,” additional boxes below the search bar popular, which are also popular, related terms that people are searching for. including these keywords in your content will help your content get found in search (increasing your reach on pinterest). you should include popular keywords in: pin images (within the text) post titles (make sure to have rich pins enabled) pin descriptions board titles board descriptions try to avoid getting “cutesy” with your titles and descriptions. in other words, “thigh blaster 100“ might sound like an awesome name for a fat-burning workout, and maybe you have an even more awesome picture of a super fit woman with glorious thighs on your pin. but guess what? no one is going to search for that… ever. “workout for thighs,” however, comes up in the search terms pretty quickly. another great example… this one literally just came up a few seconds ago when i checked pinterest while writing this. a girl invited me to join her group board called “a munch for every crunch“ with 378 followers… that’s adorable, really, but i’m trying to run a business here… optimizing your board titles and descriptions for search means that they are found easier and you get more followers to certain boards. 2. use tailwind tribes to increase your reach. it used to be that getting on group boards was the best strategy here. i still think that group boards are a great way to increase your reach and get your content in front of more people, but high-quality group boards that are easy to get on are few and far between these days. you can find group boards using tools like pingoupie and pinsprout, but it’s hard to find good group boards that are still accepting contributors. the best way to join group boards is to network with other bloggers in your niche and get on a couple of their group boards (try emailing them). but if you’re just getting started with pinterest traffic, an even better route is to use tailwind tribes to give your content a boost (before you have the followers). tailwind is a software that provides the following services for your pinterest account: content (pin) scheduling tracking and analytics collaboration (tribes) if you don’t have this software yet, i’m here to tell you it’s the #1 tool for growth on pinterest. you need it. like yesterday. you can sign up for a free trial and also get a $30 credit with our affiliate link. tailwind $15 per month create and go rating start free trial! free trial + $30 credit! if you sign up using our affiliate link, you can get a free trial + $30 credit to apply towards your first two months of tailwind! just follow the instructions on the page to get the credit applied to your new account! features include: pinterest content scheduling tracking analytics tribes collaboration open let’s talk about tribes. tribes are simply a collaboration tool that allows you to get your content shared by others in your niche. it’s essentially a share-for-share. for every pin that you upload to a tribe, you have to share 1 in return. some tribes have slightly different rules, but that’s how it works for most tribes. it’s not a guarantee that your content will be shared but if you create great content, it will be shared more often! i personally think that tailwind tribes are the absolute best tool that you can use to increase your reach on pinterest before you have a ton of followers. 3. focus on engagement, not followers. this goes directly back to what i said earlier about followers not being that important. forget about getting as many followers as possible for a moment, and focus on creating the absolute best and most shareable content that you can. the more shares and engagement your content gets, the more followers you will get. your pins will get more and more visibility, and you won’t be sweating the small stuff anymore. in short: focus on getting your pins to go viral. here is an example of just one of our many pins that does really well on pinterest. as you can see, the text is very readable, the image of the girl doing yoga is very large. focus on making your pins stand out in the sea of images on pinterest. this helps content to go “viral,” on pinterest, which essentially means that pinterest is boosting its visibility because people love are highly engaged with it (clicks, saves, etc.) this is also a topic that we discuss in more detail in our free 4-day pinterest marketing ecourse. we have gotten as much as 97k views in just one day due to a viral pin. don’t underestimate the power of a viral pin. one way to get viral content is to freshen up your content on pinterest. 4. create new and better pinterest pins. if your content isn’t getting enough engagement or if you’ve been on pinterest for a while and seen a decline in traffic, it might be time to “freshen” up your content a bit. i’ve gotten pretty good at making great pins on the first try because of experience, but i often still have duds. i used to attribute that to the content not being “good enough” or the title not being “eye-catching enough.” now, i’ve learned better. if your content isn’t performing as well as you’d like, make new pins! i recommend making at least 2-3 pins for each new post so you have more content to share and so you can tell what people like the most. look at what your competitors are doing. get ideas from people in other niches. test out different styles of pins. all of this trial and error will help you figure out what does work. and make sure to re-design old pins as well. pinterest counts old content as “new” when you give it a. new look with a. new image! make sure you are using canva.com to design your own pins. it’s free, easy-to-use, and the best tool out there for anyone who isn’t an avid adobe user (like myself). 5. use analytics to track your stats. remember how i told you tailwind was the freakin’ best!? without the analytics that tailwind provides, you’re basically pinning in the dark and building strategies based on guesswork. that’s a snapshot of our account from our account. you can also track your follower growth (since that’s why you’re here and all). tailwind analytics will show you which pins are performing the best, which boards have the highest virality and engagement scores, and so much more. when you know which boards are performing the best and getting the best engagement, you can pin more often to those boards to increase your exposure. you’ll also get access to the scheduling features and tailwind tribes, so if you’re finally convinced, make sure to grab your free trial and $30 credit. so now that we have covered what you should be doing, let’s briefly talk about… what not to do on pinterest it takes time to get rolling on pinterest, so let’s not waste any of that valuable time of yours on bs tactics that don’t actually work. you should only be spending those two valuable resources on strategies that will actually get you somewhere, and fast. 1. do not follow/unfollow. there is a time and a place for this, and it is instagram. most articles you read will talk about all kinds of itty bitty ways to barely boost your followers, including adding widgets to your blog and cross-promoting on other social media accounts. this doesn’t generally work. we tried to use our pinterest account to boost our youtube subscribers and our instagram followers. it doesn’t work. because people on pinterest don’t want to leave the pinterest platform to go watch a youtube video or check out your insta profile. you should link your pinterest account on your blog and make it prominent. and sure, if you have 5,000 youtube subscribers, give cross-promotion a try. but avoid the little widgets and pop-ups and random crap you put on your blog to convert an extra 5 pinterest followers per day. it ain’t worth it. these types of widgets will only slow your blog down and make it look worse. do add social share buttons (we like social pug) so that others can easily share your content, but don’t waste time with the pinterest widget-builders or other apps. the best and most popular pinterest widget out there is milotree. try it out if you want. i personally didn’t see extra follower growth from it and i prefer to direct people to more important places like my building my email list. but that’s your call. i always encourage everyone to give stuff a try for themselves before they make a decision (i’m just going to preface it with a warning if i don’t think it’s effective!). now, just to tie everything back together… focus on creating awesome content that should always be first and foremost. the followers will come! and they will absolutely love you! read next: pinterest for bloggers (get massive pinterest traffic to your blog) if you enjoyed this article on learning how to get more followers on pinterest, please feel free to leave us a comment or question below! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin286 shares286 about lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. read this next 17 best blogging tips (for newbies to advanced bloggers) for 2020 if you’re looking for a cutesy article that’s going to give you a high-level vague overview of some blogging tips for beginners, you are not in the right place. this is going to be a deep dive. both rookies and blogging pros are going to gain massive insights from this article. we’re also going to […] keep reading > similar articles grow your blog 14 fresh blogging statistics that change the game and how you should blog in 2020 how to build an email list: 5 ways to get subscribers on your blog 11 headline writing hacks for your blog to get 3x more clicks pinterest traffic for bloggers: how we get 300,000+ monthly visits see all blog posts 18 leave a reply 8 comment threads 10 thread replies 1 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 13 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest alex hi lauren, thank you so much for the article! i have yet to find a good read like this. trying to help a family member. she currently has 102k followers and 220k monthly viewers on pinterest (previously around 300k/800k, but she’s dropped off a bit). it seems that she should be able to make some money off this (depending on engagement, which i am unsure of at the moment). how would she go about it? thank you!! alex you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago admin alex and lauren hey alex. there are several ways to monetize a blog. 1. ads (just basic ads we’ve all seen on a website can pay surprisingly well – $3,000/m for us) 2. affiliate marketing (selling someone else’s goods or services – will explain in detail later) 3. selling your own products (can be either physical or digital) 4. sponsored posts (where someone pays you to make a specific piece of content on your website often promoting a brand or service) 5. services (where someone pays you for a service like a speaking engagement, freelancing, or anything really) for more detailed information, check… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 month ago guest alex can’t thank you enough for the reply! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 27 days ago guest kristin what to do if my audience not as big as for example people with weight problems? thanks you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago admin alex and lauren hey kristin. you don’t need a mega-large audience (like weight loss) to make money online. a smaller, but loyal audience can be very profitable. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 months ago guest anthony mancini this is super helpful. i’ve been utilizing a ton of your free content and over the past two months have seen some good results from pinterest. i bought tailwind for the year, joined a few tribes, and created some solid pin content. i think the biggest thing i noticed is that you should expect a delayed effect from your pins (unless you have a huge pinterest following). once the budget allows i’m considering trying the pinterest course but i’m not sure if that’s the best course for me to start with. anyways, thank you guys rock. i found you on… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago admin alex and lauren hey ant! sounds like you are off to a great start. we have a link under courses in our menu with an article titled, “which course is right for you?” make sure you check that out to help you decide. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 4 months ago guest alex tholen hey! i love the article! it was very informative and helpful and i’ll be implementing these tips into my strategy! i was also left with a couple questions at the end though. how often do you create pins for old posts on pinterest? i’ve been creating about 20 a week and i’ve had some pretty good results but i’m curious how often you make new pins or pay people to make new pins! another question i had at the end was where do you do your keyword research?? do you just type in an idea and look at the “related”… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago admin alex and lauren hey alex! the more pins, the merrier! pinterest loves new content. for keyword research, we just released a post on it, so check out our blog section for that. hope this helps! you can get more feedback in our facebook group! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago guest denise how did you translate lots of views into lots of followers? i currently have several million monthly pinterest views but under 1,000 followers – thanks again, awesome article! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey, denise! getting followers on pinterest isn’t as important as it used to be because the algorithm is more about searchability. the best thing that you can do is create the best content that is properly optimized for search and your followers will naturally grow. pinterest also often changes the way that people get followers (i.e. they often create buttons and other incentives to follow users but they also test this out very frequently, so it changes often). also, make sure to use tw to track your analytics and followers if you don’t already. here is our affiliate link if… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest denise thank you for the reply! i have tailwind and it’s mostly to thank for the massive traffic 😉 thanks again for the advice! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest greg hello alex and lauren i love all your information and i have pretty much watched every one of your create and go youtube videos. probably twice. i have done other online ventures before including many amazon programs, my own stores and even e books. so i have started a family and the entrepreneurial life took a back seat but i wanted to give blogging a try and just kicked it off after kicking the tires but i’m trying to pump out a ton of content before i do pinterest or any other promoting. i would love to get some advice… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey, greg! we recommend starting with pinterest if you have at least 5-10 articles written. we don’t provide invdividual feedback on blogs anymore – outside of our support groups that come with our paid courses – due to the size of our growing audience, but we do have a free blogging facebook community that you can join in the meantime for some additional help. it is called honest bloggers create and go community. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest lin hi lauren your story is just inspiring 🙂 what do you mean by changing the pin? do i need to create a new blog cover? if it wasn’t gaining much pin? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago admin alex and lauren hey lin. it’s always good to create a new pin if your previous one isn’t doing well. sometimes it can even be helpful to create two pins for every post to test them out until you get really comfortable with which pins perform really well on pinterest and which ones don’t. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 2 years ago guest kimberly clay hi lauren, thanks for the awesome advice! i am a serial entrepreneur who has returned to blogging after an absence of several years, and of course, everything has changed. i have never had success with social media (facebook, etc.), but was introduced to pinterest earlier this year (on a personal account) and i love it. when i decided to start a new blog (just two months ago now), whatshesay.com, i decided to try using pinterest for marketing because i at least understood the rudimentary basics of it. so, i’m an absolute newbie to pinterest for business. i have had some… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 years ago admin alex and lauren thanks so much for the kind words, kimberly! i’m happy to hear that you have come back to blogging! pinterest offers so many amazing opportunities to those that pay attention to it and use it! we do have a pinterest ecourse as well that will help get you going in the right direction without having to wade through all of the misinformation and random strategies out there. we also offer a private support group for it where i answer questions and other users can share tips and strategies! check it out if you’re interested 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 3 years ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents 1. optimize your pinterest account for search. 2. use tailwind tribes to increase your reach. 3. focus on engagement, not followers. 4. create new and better pinterest pins. 5. use analytics to track your stats. footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz