home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership how to balance remote work and family life michael and megan 00:36:59 download transcript the opportunity to work from home sounds great! but the reality of being forced to make that shift on short notice can be stressful. add to that the school closings, work-from-home spouses, and the general uncertainty of the times. it’s nerve-wracking! you may be wondering how to keep your sanity, let alone keep your focus. we’ve got help. our company started as an all-remote team. and before the covid-19 crisis, we still operated on a hybrid model, with all employees working from home part of the time. we’ve got a quick set of clear, simple actions you can take to keep your focus at work and your family intact. in this episode, you’ll discover— tips from members of the michael hyatt and company team on their experience with working remotely suggestions for adjusting your rituals to accommodate alternate schedules the importance of continued connection with friends and loved ones how to intentionally create structure for you and your family the importance of finding a quiet space to focus on your work how to signal to your family that you are in “do not disturb” mode ideas for how to switch from home mode to work mode and back why your rituals are even more important during crazy times—even if they look a bit different the role that grace plays in your work/family balance resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe dohm white noise machine bose noise reduction headphones remote work handbook posted on tuesday, march 24, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed