home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to use freewriting to supercharge your work enjoy creative exercises fiction by kathy hopewell memory is one of the writer’s most valuable resources.using strong, vivid recollections full of detail and charged with genuine emotion will make your fiction, poetry or memoir-writing full of impact and, yes, memorable! but what is the best way to access these memories in full technicolor detail, some of which are a long way back in time? i believe that the best technique for this is freewriting. in freewriting (sometimes called flow writing, spontaneous writing or automatic writing) the instruction is to write without editing or critical judgement for a set length of time and to write continuously, without letting the pen leave the page or the fingers leave the keyboard. why use freewriting rather than a more deliberate, careful or even pre-planned type of writing? freewriting mimics the action of memory: it works by association.you might start out with the first time you met your partner but then you might skip back to a memory from school, say, or a piece of clothing you had when you were eight. in freewriting, there is no wrong move and if you end up remembering nothing more glamorous than what you had for breakfast it doesn’t mean you’ve failed.it means that you’ve learned to trust the connections in your mind which are unique to you and the key to creating original writing. so going to the page or screen with the set intent of re-capturing your wedding day or the house you grew up in are good starting points but the really interesting and off-beat memories (the time your mother had lipstick on her cheek at parent’s evening and you couldn’t bear to tell her) are more likely to emerge as if by accident. the creative state is not a dogged trudge to a pre-planned destination (“i’ll start with me at age 5 and end with little harry’s first tooth”) but a condition of openness, as described by christopher foster in his article on “moodling” in which the unhurried child absorbed in play is the ideal model of the writer at work. some freewriting exercises on memory while the method of freewriting should be loose and unstructured, you might do well to start with a prompt or a ready-made setting-off point. using the words “i remember” to begin your freewrite is one of the best and most fertile prompts.you write “i remember” at the start and as many times as you need to if think you are about to dry up.you do this for 10 minutes. it doesn’t matter if the memories are of twenty years or half an hour ago. another nice prompting method from julia cameron’s classic the artist’s way is to make 20 paper slips and on each one write a significant turning point in your life.fold the slips so that the contents are hidden and then, when you decide to do a freewrite, pick one at random and write on it.you can do the same for people you’ve known. write one person’s name on each slip and allocate one slip for each decade (or any other time period) of your life.decide who was the most important person to you in each time-span, or the most mysterious person you encountered. a student of mine wrote an amazing story which began with a freewrite on “the strangest person i ever met” (it was about a tramp who had been a circus clown). another good type of prompt is to use places: a place i felt happy in, a place i got lost in, a place i belonged, etc.again, slips drawn at random will work the best because you don’t want to rehearse anything: the freewriting needs to be raw and to simply record the thoughts as they emerge in the mind rather than recounting a pre-planned series of ideas.ten minutes should be enough as long as you are sticking to the rules of freewriting. how to turn freewriting straw into fictional gold this brings us to the question of turning freewriting material into drafts and eventually publishable writing.no one should be under the illusion that freewriting is a shortcut to high quality, finished work: it’s just the start.after doing the freewriting, it needs ideally to be left alone like bread rising, and not re-read for as long as you can bear it.leave it for days at least, weeks if possible and even years, if you have the patience and self-control. at that point you’ll see if there’s a story in it, or the kernel of a memoir or life-writing piece. what you do next depends on the genre you are writing in. if you are aiming to turn your memories into fiction, then change the facts as much as you like (in fact probably the more changes the better).change the genders, the time period, the point of view (i.e. if the memory is from your childhood, try narrating it from one of your parent’s points of view).you can even change the outcome. a memory i had of being approached as a young girl by a rather odd man on a remote seaside cliff is going to change into a story about a girl disappearing, presumed dead. if, on the other hand you are gathering memories for a non-fiction project, perhaps a memoir or creative-nonfiction essay (or indeed as an unpublished record for your family to read and keep) you’ll need not only to stick to the facts but to interrogate them for truthfulness. are memories “true” and does it matter? there is some fascinating psychological research on “false” memories.at the extreme, these can be implanted memories that people come to believe actually happened to them.and there is a phenomenon called “confabulation” in patients with brain injuries which make their memories frequently fantastical but, to them, real. can we trust the memories that emerge in freewriting to be true?this begs the question of whether memories are true and reliable at all.current understanding of the brain sees memory much less as an accessing of pre-existing information than as a construction after the fact.in other words, each time we re-access a memory, we recreate it. i often wonder if, by returning to write about certain moments in my life (my extreme happiness at becoming a mother is one) i have actually produced a fiction instead of a record of real events.am i in fact implanting myself with false memories? for me the benefits far outweigh these (possibly groundless) concerns.i treasure the description of these precious moments of my life and i know that if i wish, i can use these fully documented details to create the same feelings in my readers, whether or not they have experienced childbirth and motherhood. is freewriting safe? i have never experienced any negative effects from freewriting about my memories.on the contrary i have found it wholly positive to record and thereby reclaim my past.i feel a great sense of wealth in simply having the good and bad moments of my life safely down on paper, so that whatever happens to me or them i have at least recorded my life as i have lived it.neither have i seen any evidence that my students have had any bad effects from recalling their past, even when i set the deliberately sombre and risky prompt of writing about their first encounter with death. but some people will have events in their past that are more difficult to deal with, such as trauma or abuse and if you suspect that these will emerge then put some support in place. in general, though, i would advise going ahead with freewriting your memories however tough they are.if it’s fear that’s holding you back then i recommend reading laura tong’s call to arms and getting straight down to work because i believe that writing gives us power over, and ownership of, the events of our lives. go in search of memory why not clear a space and track down some memory gold right away?all you need is a pen and some paper and ten minutes to spare. dive right in and write about your most embarrassing moment or try to recapture what it was like to fall in love. somewhere down the line, this messy, haphazard and unselfconscious writing might give you the key to the project that brings out the best in you as a writer, and the force and strangeness of your unique experiences will be transmitted directly to your reader’s mind, brain and heart. tweet pin2 share99 101 shares related posts word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera about the author kathy hopewell dr kathy hopewell teaches creative writing at bangor university in north wales. she is one half of hopewell ink, a spoken word and music band. she blogs on freewriting, surrealism and everything in between at www.freewriterscompanion.com, where you can subscribe to receive a free ten-minute freewriting prompt every week. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here writing for life workshops master the craft of fiction writing. popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >