start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising learning advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to learn quickly and master any skill you want leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email have you ever heard of the idiom ‘practice makes perfect’? i’m pretty sure someone would have said that to you at least once in your life! it’s a common saying, often used to encourage someone when they’re learning or doing something that is new to them. they may need many tries before succeeding and getting it right. it’s like learning to ride a bicycle, learning how to drive, taking up a second language, or cooking for the first time. it’s rare for anyone to ace it on their first try. whenever you want to start learning something new, i’m sure you’re always hoping to get good at it quickly. but the reality is, that sometimes it does take days, months or even years before you can confidently master a skill. that’s simply how learning works. you try, you gain experience, you learn from it, and you try again. and each time, you’re improving and making progress. every time you repeat this learning process, you’re going through something called a feedback loop. you’ll have to go through multiple feedback loops before confidently executing the skill. what separates a fast learner from a slower learner is not some innate, natural talent. instead, it’s because the fast learner understands how they learn, and has a systematic way to apply it all the time to learn a variety of things. they know how to effectively use their feedback loop to speed up the learning process. so the good news for you, is that if you’re currently wanting to learn a new skill as quickly as possible, then you just need to learn how to create an effective feedback loop. what is a feedback loop? when we talk about feedback, it simple means getting information about how well you’re performing each time you make an attempt at practicing or applying a skill. feedback is what tells you what went wrong, or what went right. advertising a feedback loop is made up of 3 stages: practice / apply – this is the stage where you put what you want to learn into action. measure – this is the stage where you’re acquiring information about your performance. this is also the stage that is most ignored… or done ineffectively. learn – this is the stage where you analyze how well you performed, and make adjustments to improve and practice/apply again. it’s important to recognize these 3 stages and put them into place each time you practice a new skill. many people only have stage 1 completed, and a very unclear or fuzzy process for stage 2, which leads to poor results in stage 3. a good, smooth cycle will help you continuously make improvements with each loop, creating steady progress and upgrading your understanding of the skill. how to have an effective feedback loop to make sure your feedback loop is effective, you will have to look at 3 key factors: consistency, speed, and accuracy. 1. be consistent being consistent means having a regular way to get the same quality of feedback. you need to be able to compare every practice or learning experience in order to measure, learn and make adjustments. if your feedback is not consistent, then you’re going to have a hard time knowing what went wrong or what went right. for example, say you’re learning to play the guitar. if you play a different song every time you practice, you’re going to get very inconsistent feedback. because the difficulty, rhythm, and pace of every song is different, you won’t have a reliable way to compare how well you played the current song versus the last. so, the best way to learn would be to play the same song over and over again until you get to a certain proficiency. advertising seems obvious in this case, but it’s just an example. a lot of times learning is hard because we don’t focus on keeping with a consistent environment or actions. 2. be quick let’s move on to the second factor: speed. having speedy or fast feedback is important because the longer it takes to get feedback, the longer it will take to improve on the skill. that’s why some people spend a tremendous amount of time practicing, but make very slow progress. on the other hand, the best forms of feedback are almost instantaneous. the shorter the time it takes for one feedback loop to complete, the better. this is because you’ll have more attempts, which means more improvements within the same timespan. so, the key to getting fast feedback is to take the skill or knowledge and break it down. try to breakdown the skill into different components. they could be broken down into steps, subskills or processes, or even by difficulty. for example, if the skill you want to learn involves a sequence (ie: there is a step by step process), you can break your learning down by each step. create a feedback loop for each step individually instead of the whole process. isolate the processes into different parts that you can focus and work on individually. let’s say you’re learning to cook. you can break this skill into steps, such as finding fresh and suitable ingredients, preparing and handling the ingredients, preparing condiments and sauces, serving and plating, etc. or let’s say you’d like to learn how to play soccer. you can identify the sub-skills that make up the larger learning techniques to playing soccer, and create feedback loops for each of them individually. so you could start by learning how to dribble the ball, followed by passing, and then shooting. advertising the third and final factor to an effective feedback loop, is accuracy. this means having feedback that actually reflects your performance accurately. since you’re relying on feedback to tell you what and where to improve on the next time, this is very important. this is why measuring feedback is a key skill to have for an effective feedback loop. 3. be accurate obtaining accuracy in feedback becomes a common weak point for many learners, because it’s not always easy to define what “accuracy” means. to get accurate feedback, we have to have a way of measuring it. the reason why we sometimes get poor feedback is because we’re trying to measure our progress without quantifying our performance. or, we’re using the wrong metrics to quantify the feedback. worse yet, it might just be that you were never measuring or recording your performance at all! can you recall yourself being in a similar situation? in order to find areas for improvement, you have to be able to compare your current performance with your previous performance. this is so that you have a baseline, or something to measure up against, to look for room for improvements. quantifying is a way to accurately measure your performance. quantifying something means attaching a number to it. this helps to give objectivity and consistency when comparing two things. quantifying feedback can give you constructive information that will help you improve during each cycle of the feedback loop. let’s say you’re practicing how to dribble a basketball. the first time you dribble, your coach tells you you’re doing a good job. the second time round, you get better and your coach affirms you by saying you’ve done a great job! sure, your dribbling skill has improved–you know it, your coach knows it, but by how much? and how can you further improve your dribbling skills? a good job versus a great job doesn’t indicate how well you’ve performed, and how much better you can perform. but, now in the second scenario, if you manage to dribble the basketball up and down the court 4 times continuously without letting the ball slip, your coach tells you you’ve done a good job. in the second round, your coach now tells you to dribble the basketball up and down the court 8 times continuously without letting the ball slip. you managed to do that and your coach tells you great job! you can now quantify your improvement by the number of times you were able to dribble the basketball across the court. advertising with a quantity attached to your performance, you’re now able to push yourself further by learning to dribble 16 times or more across the basketball court. you can even add in new obstacles like having to dribble across the court with an opponent trying to snatch your basketball. if you’re successful, you can try dribbling across the court with 2 opponents snatching your basketball, so on and so forth. you’re now able to easily quantify your improvement. continuously improve your feedback loop! so now that you’re familiar with the feedback loop, are you ready to put it into practice? what’s a new skill that you’d like to start on? try implementing every stage of the feedback loop when learning this new skill and see for yourself, whether your learning improves at a quicker rate. it is essential to continuously improve your feedback loop in order to keep up your momentum, and avoid running into the law of diminishing returns. improving your feedback loop means knowing what to measure next, and what questions to ask, to find out. in fact, the technique you’ve learned from this article is only part of our learning course. if you’d like to discover more gems that will help you speed up your learning and push yourself towards the goals that you’ve been striving for, check out our learn anything fast course. or you can find out more learning tips in these articles: 8 ways to train your brain to learn faster and remember more how to use observational learning to learn effectively 5 hacks to speed up the learning process featured photo credit: adeolu eletu via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to learn faster with a feedback loop how to use observational learning to learn effectively 17 best learning apps to help you learn faster advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in learning 1 how to learn quickly and master any skill you want 2 how to think critically: 5 powerful techniques 3 10 tips to improve your learning curve 4 12 learning goals for personal growth and self development 5 how to use mind mapping in your everyday life more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it trending in learning 1 how to learn quickly and master any skill you want 2 how to think critically: 5 powerful techniques 3 10 tips to improve your learning curve 4 12 learning goals for personal growth and self development 5 how to use mind mapping in your everyday life read next 13 life-changing skills to learn in 2020 (cheatsheet) 7 best language learning apps and websites what’s the easiest language to learn for english speakers? 6 common types of learners (with learning hacks for each) advertising advertising brain learning advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to think critically: 5 powerful techniques leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email critical thinking is the art of filtering through information to reach an unbiased, logical decision that guides better thought and action. it can be learned through powerful techniques listed in this article. before you read further, it is important for you to know that critical thinking is a state of mind, not a tool or strategy. if you are bogged down in the trivial day to day matters of your professional and personal life, learning how to think critically can help you rise above these issues and focus your energies where they are needed – to solve problems and accomplish objectives. it stands to reason that the better the learning techniques, the better critical thinking and reasoning will be. my experience in helping people grow means i know exactly what is needed to learn critical thinking (hint: it’s not just pondering over the problem). i will cover 5 powerful techniques that form the base of critical thinking: analytical thinking communication creativity open-mindedness problem-solving once you learn the techniques listed and start employing them in your daily life, you’ll quickly start to notice a change in the way you approach problems and consequently, how you resolve them too. advertising 1. analytical thinking analytical thinking is the gathering and breaking down of information into small bites that help make sense of it. to use it for critical thinking: be very clear on why you need the information. this is to recognize your limitations and employ foresight to overcome them. gather information from as many sources as you can: peers and experts, podcasts, relevant literature and any other place you can think of. rephrase questions multiple times to get different perspectives on data available and possibly arrive at different solutions. break down the data into factual subsets and relate each to the issue at hand. think on paper to make new connections. write, doodle, make mind-maps or use spreadsheets. data presented visually can help you make new connections make sense of emerging patterns. tidy up the workplace. once data has been gathered, your workspace and your brain will both be cluttered with excess information. neaten the physical space and clear your mind with meditation. the change in focus will help you view the information in a new light, potentially helping you reach newer, better conclusions. want more information and tips on adopting this powerful technique? what are analytical skills and how to strengthen them for success has all the information you need. 2. communication communication is a key technique for critical thinking as it gives you access to the thoughts of people around you. data can be communicated through audio and visual means and in many cases, through careful observation of body language: ask for different points of view and seek justification for the same thing. when you invest in the matter, you will be able to explore all options to reach the best solution. listening without interrupting and only asking questions or voicing concerns once the speaker is done helps you make better connections. be 100% focused on a verbal or written discussion, you can better hear/read the opinions of the people involved. paraphrase the speaker/writer’s point of view and ask for affirmation. this enables you to pay full attention and use the input to think critically. in a meeting, subtle communication cues are given by the body language of fellow attendees. an imperceptible frown, a small nod, pencil tapping etc. will all give you clues to what they are really thinking, just in case their actions are not in sync with their words! active observation, where you are watching and listening intently helps you know what to make of the information that is being passed around. it gives you clues to the general opinion about the topic under discussion and opens up new possibilities. the information you gather through such communication will be invaluable in thinking critically to arrive at a decision that is holistic and unbiased. advertising 3. creativity critical thinking is an art, and like any art form, its lifeblood is creativity. to really learn critical thinking, you need to include elements of creativity in the process! brainstorm with your team in an all-new location or work-shadow an industry expert to step out of your comfort zone. you could be surprised by the ideas that flow at a picnic or a game of billiards! gather data and tabulate it in the form of colorful, eye-catching charts, graphs and mind maps. the simple exercise makes your mind bring data together in different ways and presents them so multiple unique conclusions can be reached, giving you the flexibility to choose the best one. play brain games such as sudoku or chess to appreciate how different factors can be manipulated to reach a preferred outcome. these games help make connections between previously disconnected nerves, giving your brain the power to find multiple pathways to answering problems. in a similar vein, you can forge new neural connections by learning a new skill, a new language or even a new recipe! i break down creativity in my other article what is creativity? we all have it, and need it. if you want to be good at critical thinking, you need to adopt creativity! 4. open-mindedness it’s easy to say you’re open minded but is your mind really open? to get an idea, be brutally honest about your strengths and weaknesses, and how these will impact the matter at hand. hear an opinion that conflicts with your own without forming a response before the opinion is fully voiced. acknowledge that there may be more than one approach to solving a problem and that they may all be right in some way. consider your true feelings when you will implement any required changes. disregard your long-held beliefs and assumptions and let go of habits. imagine the decision-making factors placed on weighing scales. are they balanced? open-mindedness is a powerful technique for critical thinking. new possibilities can be uncovered, helping you resolve personal and professional matters in a manner that doesn’t frustrate you or alienate the other party. learn more about open-mindedness here: why we’re not open-minded and how not to be close-minded advertising 5. problem-solving critical thinking is heavily dependent on problem-solving. an effective critical thinker will be a problem solver with the foresight to anticipate roadblocks and negative outcomes, and the experience and presence of mind to resolve them quickly and move on. one of the most effective problem-solving methodologies is the 5 whys analysis. invented by sakichi toyoda, the founder of toyota motors in the 1950s, it has been used successfully by the automobile giant to get to the root cause of problems. the idea behind this is simple: start with the end problem and keep asking why until you get to the root cause of it. the general idea is that asking why 5 times from the effect is enough to get to the cause, hence the name. however, the methodology does not limit the questions to 5, and why can be asked as many times as need to peel away the layers until a satisfactory answer is reached. to use the 5 whys analysis, start off by listing the problem and writing why in front of it. the next point in the list should be answer to the first why with another why in front of it. continue answering the question asked above followed by a why until you’ve asked the question 5 times and answered it six times. 99% of the time, the last answer will be the root cause of the problem stated in the first point. for example, consider the a commonly given scenario where a vehicle does not start. advertising vehicle will not start. why? battery is dead. why? the alternator is not functioning. why? the alternator belt has broken. why? it was old and worn out. why? the car is not maintained according to manufacturer’s recommendation. by this example, it is clearly demonstrated that 5 whys were asked to reach the root cause of the problem. the 5 techniques discussed here are important for effective critical thinking. when employed regularly they will become a habit and will definitely improve your critical thinking skills so you can get better at predicting and resolving issues that concern you and your environment. over the years, the 5 whys analysis has been adopted by millions to reach the root cause of their personal and professional problems. industry giant six sigma has also incorporated the 5x why analysis in the analyze phase of their dmaic methodology.[1] final thoughts is critical thinking a new-fangled notion? not at all. its history can be traced back to socrates who questioned commonly held beliefs. this practice was carried forward by leading scholars and thinkers from different times such as aristotle and plato, colet and moore, descartes, galileo and newton.[2] today’s world is dependent on critical thinking to resolve all sorts of issues. it is now indispensable for issues ranging from personal relationships to professional jobs and those involving the global community. the 5 techniques discussed here are important for effective critical thinking. when employed regularly, they will become a habit and will definitely improve your critical thinking skills so you can get better at predicting and resolving issues that concern you and your environment. more tips about thinking smarter the power of deep thinking: essence of creativity think like steve jobs: how design thinking leads to creativity 6 effective ways to enhance your problem solving skills how to upgrade your critical thinking skills and make smart choices featured photo credit: mariya pampova via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ isixsigma: determine the root cause: 5 whys. [2] ^ a brief history of the idea of critical thinkinga brief history of the idea of critical thinking share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem what are analytical skills (and how to strengthen them for success) 12 surprising benefits of learning a new language advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in learning 1 how to learn quickly and master any skill you want 2 how to think critically: 5 powerful techniques 3 10 tips to improve your learning curve 4 12 learning goals for personal growth and self development 5 how to use mind mapping in your everyday life read next how to upgrade your critical thinking skills and make smart choices think like steve jobs: how design thinking leads to creativity the power of deep thinking: essence of creativity what happens when ego closes our mind but we aren’t aware of it about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.