nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop the ultimate guide to picking the best travel credit card last updated: february 1, 2020 nomadic matt has partnered with cardratings for our coverage of credit card products. nomadic matt and cardratings may receive a commission from card issuers. opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone and have not been reviewed, endorsed or approved by any of these entities. here in the us — as well as much of europe — cash is no longer king. credit cards have stolen that title and are used by people to pay for everything from new cars to a pack of gum. we love credit cards in the us. chance are, you’ve seen ads for them plastered all over cities, tv, and online. your bank likely calls and emails you with credit card offers all the time too. i can’t count how many unsolicited card offers i get in the mail — and no matter how often i say stop sending them to me, they continue like a deluge! these days, there are hundreds of travel rewards credit cards to choose from. with so many cards to choose from, it’s hard to know which ones are actually good for travel and which are not worth your time. it can be especially confusing trying to navigate all the welcome offers, loyalty programs, perks, offers, arcane rules and hidden fees of credit cards. it’s so complex most people just pick the first one they see and call it a day. or even worse, they just give up and use a debit card instead! don’t be like them. be a better and smarter traveler. travel credit cards are an incredible tool you can use to earn free flights, travel perks, and hotel stays — and all without spending extra money! sound too good to be true? don’t worry, it’s not. in this article, i am going to tell you how to easily pick the best credit card for travel so you can maximize your points and earn free travel — because it’s a lot easier than you think! quick overview: the best travel rewards cards for 2020 don’t want to read this entire post? fine. i get it. time is important! so here’s my quick list of favorites by category! best flexible travel rewards chase sapphire preferred best premium travel card chase sapphire reserve best airline rewards credit card gold delta skymiles best no annual fee card wells fargo propel best hotel card marriott bonvoy boundless best simple, easy to use rewards card capital one® venture® travel credit cards offer a great opportunity to earn free points that can be redeemed for airfares, hotels or cold hard cash. in the race to get customers, credit card issuing companies partner with various travel brands (or just simply offer their own card) that entice consumers with a welcome offer, loyalty points, special discounts, and more. their desire to get you, the consumer, is really your gain. by milking the system, you can get tons of free air tickets, hotel rooms, vacations, and even cash back. i’ve accumulated close to one million points through welcome offers alone. i use so many points each year; it would take an entire book to just list them off to you. as long as you can pay your credit card off each month, you’ll be able to accrue points and miles that you can redeem for free travel. it’s that easy. the tricky part is finding the card that works for you, your travel goals, and your budget. so how do you pick the best travel-related credit card? table of contents know there is no perfect card 5 things to look for in a rewards credit card will this hurt your credit? what if you have poor credit? the best travel rewards credit cards step 1: know there is no perfect card the first thing you need to know is that there is no perfect travel card. every card offers different benefits that that will fit different lifestyles, budgets, and travel goals. i use an amex card for booking flights (3x points per dollar spent), chase sapphire reserve for my everyday spending, a different chase card for my phone bills (5x points), and a chase ink for my business expenses! i have friends who only want cash back and others who only want united miles. there is no perfect card. there is only the perfect card for you! ask yourself “what is your goal?” are you interested in loyalty to a brand, free rewards, or avoiding fees? do you want to milk the rewards and welcome offers to get free flights or do you just want a card that won’t charge you a fee for using it at that restaurant in brazil? is elite status the most important perk for you? do you want points you can use for anything, like cash? if you just want points to spend wherever you choose, get the chase or american express cards because you can use their points with a variety of travel companies. they each have their own rewards programs (chase ultimate rewards and american express membership rewards), and points can be transferred to multiple airlines or hotel partners and used to book travel directly through their sites. just want free hotel rooms? sign up for hotel cards. want points that can be used like cash? get a barclays arrival plus or capital one venture card. by first focusing on what you want, you can maximize your short-term goals and get the hang of travel hacking. for example, i tend to avoid hotel cards since i rarely stay in hotels. i dislike hilton and never fly united so i don’t waste time getting their points. i don’t like cash back cards because i travel so often that points — not cash back — is more useful for me. using credit cards that get me airline miles or that have good transfer bonuses to airline programs is what i go for. find your goal and then find the cards that match your goal as well as your spending habits. step 2: 5 really important things to look for in a travel rewards credit card to get the ball rolling, here’s a quick video on how to pick a credit card: comparing credit cards can be a little overwhelming. to help you stay focused and ensure you get the best card for you and your goals, here are the six things i look for in a new card: 1. a huge welcome offer — the best travel cards will all offer you a sizeable introductory offer. you’ll need to meet a minimum spending requirement (usually within the first few months) but it will be these welcome points that jump-start your mileage account and get you closer to a free flight or hotel stay. sometimes these offers are even big enough to get you a few free flights right off the bat!. don’t sign up for a card unless it offers a high welcome offer. as a general guide, welcome offers work like this: in order to receive the large introductory offer, you must make either a single purchase or meet a minimum spending threshold in a certain time frame. after that, depending on the card, you can earn 1-5x points per dollar spent. typical travel credit card welcome offers range between 25,000 to 50,000 points, though sometimes they can be as high as 100,000. that’s why cards are so great—you get an instant balance of thousands of points for very little work. if you’re not sure you’ll be able to make the minimum threshold for the welcome offer, ask around to see if any friends or family are planning a large purchase. if they’ll let you put it on your card (and then pay you with cash) you can easily meet the minimum spend threshold to earn your welcome points. 2. added category spending bonus — most credit cards offer one point for every dollar spent. however, the good credit cards will give you extra points when you shop at specific retailers, or, if it is a branded credit card, with a particular brand. this will help you earn points much more quickly. i don’t want one dollar to equal just one point. i want the ability to get two or three points every time i spend a dollar. for example, with the chase sapphire reserve card you get 3x points for travel and dining at restaurants, the chase ink gives you 5x points for office spending, and the american express premier rewards gold card 3x points on airfare. i can get added points when i use a company card to book with the company (i.e. delta flights with a delta card). that’s what you want. never accept one point per dollar spent. look for at least two. some cards even off up to 6 points per dollar spent! 3. low spending minimum — unfortunately, in order to get the great bonuses these cards offer, there is usually a required spending minimum. while there are ways to temporarily boost your spending, it’s best to be able to get the bonus using normal day-to-day spending. i typically sign up for cards with a minimum spending requirement of $1,000–3,000 usd in a three- to six-month period. some cards only require you to make a single purchase to activate the welcome offer (these are my favorite type of welcome offer). while you shouldn’t necessarily avoid high-minimum spending cards as they have substantial rewards, it’s a good idea to start small because you don’t want to get stuck with so many cards that you can’t meet the minimum spends. once you get the card, you can’t reapply for the card. only apply for cards that you can meet the minimum spend on to qualify for the welcome bonus. managing your ability to meet the minimum spending requirements is key because if you are spending more money than you usually do just to get these points, the points are no longer free. only spend what you normally would and not a penny more. if you’re looking for ways to meet your minimum spending requirements, there are plenty of creative ways to become a master travel hacker. 4. have special perks – all of these travel credit cards offer great perks. many will give you a special elite loyalty status or other extra perks. here are the perks i prioritize: no foreign transaction fees free checked baggage priority boarding free hotel stays travel hacking is not just about just getting points and miles, it’s about what else comes with the card that makes my life easier! 5. low annual fees – no one likes paying annual fees for credit cards. many of the fees for company branded credit cards range from $50-$95 per year. for those who travel a lot and fly a lot, i think it is worth it to get a card with a fee. fee-based cards tend to give you a better rewards scheme, where you can accumulate points faster, get better access to services and special offers, and get better travel protection. with these cards, i have saved more money on travel than i have spent on fees. 6. no foreign transaction fees – credit cards are great to use when you are overseas because you get the best possible exchange rate from them but if you are paying a fee every time you use the card, then it doesn’t become as good. nowadays there are so many cards offering no foreign transaction fees that you should never, ever, ever get a credit card with a foreign transaction fee. never! does opening a lot of credit cards hurt my credit? while it’s true that opening and closing a lot of credit cards at once can hurt your credit, applying for a few credit cards over a period of time won’t kill your credit score. your credit score will slightly dip every time there is an inquiry into whether that is a credit card or home loan or car loan. it’s how the system is set up. but so long as you space out your applications and maintain good credit, you won’t find any long-term damages to your credit. your credit rating rises over time as long as you maintain it, you aren’t going to have a bank officer tell you years from now, “sorry, because you canceled three credit cards in 2020, your loan is denied.” i once canceled 4 credit cards in one day and the impact on my score? nothing. i currently have a few dozen credit cards, a credit score of 825, and was recently approved for a mortgage. travel hacking does not hurt your credit. having lots of credit does actually help your credit because you improve your debt to credit ratio. as long as you’re paying your monthly balances and spread out your credit card applications, you’ll be fine. unless you’re planning to make a big purchase in the near future (like a house or a car) you don’t need to worry about the small dip you’re credit rating might take. what if you have poor credit? many travel rewards cards are only available to those with a high credit score, and if you have a low score (650 or less), you may find yourself being declined often and limited in your options. there’s no magic bullet to suddenly fixing your credit score. if you have a low credit score, you need to build it back up. there are ways to do that and point-earning cards that can get you there. here are five ways to improve your credit score: go to annualcreditreport.com and get a free copy of your credit report. this site lets you know what your credit score is so you can see what areas you need to work on. dispute any incorrect information on your credit report with the credit reporting agencies (experian, equifax, and transunion). don’t let mistakes bring you down. get a secured credit card. these cards require you to put down a cash deposit, think of it like a pre-paid credit card (or a credit-card-in-training). if you decide to put $500 usd in your secured credit card, you can use up to $500 usd each month and then pay it off. spending and paying off your balance in full each month is a good way to build up your trustworthiness. a good secured card will have automatic reporting to the three major credit bureaus. this will help you build a good credit history and increase your score. for example, capital one offers a secured mastercard card with a $0 annual fee and no foreign transaction fees. check with your local bank or any credit card issue to see what they offer and get it. over time, you can raise the limit and this will raise your score allowing you to move to a regular credit card. become an additional cardholder (authorized user) on the card of someone else with good credit. essentially, this is like if that person was vouching for you. it can instantly improve your credit score. warning: your missed payments will also appear on their account, so don’t add someone or have someone add you if they aren’t on top of their finances. this works both ways! pay all current bills on time and don’t get into more debt. additionally, move any existing debt to low- or zero-interest cards. discover cards are good for this. credit scores improve over time but they don’t take forever — and you don’t need to be debt-free to make it happen. a few smart months of money management and you’ll see your score rise. for those with low or no credit, capital one, barclays, and discover all offer cards for people with little or bad credit. moreover, ask your local credit union (or call one of the banks above) if they have any prepaid cards you can get, call up the major banks or walk into a branch and ask the teller. all financial institutions have products for people with poor credit. get them and constantly work at it. if you’re passive, it won’t improve, but if you push the banks and prove you’re not a risk, you’ll soon be getting the good cards that include better offers! you may not get the best deals or cards right away, but you will eventually. it just takes time. the best travel rewards credit cards with so many credit cards to choose from, which ones do you pick? well, the short answer is all of them. grab as many as you can. why put a limit on how many points you can get? but the longer answer is don’t get more than you can manage. build it all up slowly. here is a list of my favorite travel credit cards: credit card best for welcome offer perks annual fee learn more chase sapphire preferred card this is the best card for beginning points travelers because it offers a huge intro offer, great ongoing rewards rates, extremely transferrable points, and a host of perks like trip cancellation insurance. 60,000 points (after spending $4,000 in the first 3 months) no blackout dates, no froeign transaction fees, 2x points on dining, and 25% more point redemtion value via chase ultimate rewards $95 learn more chase ink plus business preferred this is my go-to card for all of my business expenses. the bonuses on travel and office expenses really add up and the fact that i can get copies of the card for my employees really helps me rack up more points. 80,000 points (after spending $5,000 in the first 3 months) 3x points per $1 spent on travel, 5x points per $1 spent on office supplies, free cards for employees, and 25% more redemption value via chase unlimited rewards. $95 learn more capital one venture this is a great choice for new travel hackers who are looking for general rewards. there are perks for avid travel and amazing point bonuses for hotel stays as well. like chase’s sapphire preferred, it’s a great choice for new points and miles collectors. 50,000 points (after spending $3,000 in the first 3 months) free for the first year, 2x points on all purchases, 10x points on all hotel purchases, $100 credit toward global entry or tsa pre-check, and no foreign transaction fees $95 learn more chase ink business cash if you’d rather have a cash-back business card, this is the best one on the market. the 5% cash back on office supplies and internet services really adds up as a business owner (and there is no annual fee so it’s great for small businesses). $500 cash-back (after spending $3,000 in the first 3 months) 5% cash back on purchases made at office supply stores and on cable/phone services, 2% cash back at gas stations and restaurants, and 1% back on everything else. $0 learn more capital one® quicksilver® this card keeps travel hacking simple: you get 1.5% cash back on everything. while that’s not as high as other cards, the simplicity of this card can’t be matched. and the cash-back welcome offer is also easy to earn (you just need to spend $500 in 3 months). $150 cash-back (after spending $500 in the first 3 months) earn 1.5% cash back on all your spending, with no limits or rotating categories. there is also a $150 cash-back offer if you spend $500 in your first 3 months. $0 learn more chase sapphire reserve card this is my favorite premium rewards card as it includes a ton of amazing perks for avid travelers. it’s the supercharged version of the chase sapphire preferred card and is a great choice for serious points collectors. 50,000 points (after spending $4,000 in the first 3 months) $100 credit toward global entry or tsa pre-check, 3x points on dining, $300 in annual travel reimbursement, lounge access, and 50% more point redemtion value via chase ultimate rewards $450 learn more chase freedom unlimited this is chase’s version of the quicksilver card. it’s a straightforward cash back card that has no annual fee. if you’re new to travel hacking or don’t have great credit, this is a good card to start with. $150 cash-back (after spending $500 in the first 3 months) earn 1.5% cash back on all purchases and a $150 cash-back if you spend $500 in your first 3 months. $0 learn more american express business platinum this card is a must for any business owner as the travel perks are incedible (especially if you work abroad as the access to wework is a great perk). the fee is a little high but it’s definitely worth it if you havea lot of business expenses! 60,000 points (after spending $5,000 in the first 3 months) $200 in airline fee credit, global access to wework, $100 credit for global entry, and automatic status at marriott and hilton hotels $450 learn more gold delta skymiles business i like this card for its priority boarding and the double points earned when booking directly with delta. if you’re an avid business traveler, this is a great card for earning free flights. 30,000 points (after spending $1,000 in the first 3 months) priority boarding, no foreign transaction fees, and 2x points on purchases made with delta $95 learn more wells fargo propel american express this is my favorite card to use for eating out or ordering food as you earn 3x the points. it’s a great card to use if you commute to work as well, as you’ll earn 3x the points on gas, transit expenses, and rideshares. 30,000 points (after spending $3,000 in the first 3 months) no annual fee, no foreign transaction fees, no blackout dates when booked directly via their rewards portal, and 3x the points on a ton of areas (including travel) $0 learn more marriott bonvoy boundless this card recently got a makeover from marriott and now has an amazing welcome offer as well as some great perks. if hotels are your go-to choice for accommodation, this is the card for you! 100,000 points (after spending $5,000 in the first 3 months) 1 night free on your sign-up anniversary, 6x points for all marriott purchases, 2x the points for all other purchases, and automatic hotel status $95 learn more american express gold card this is a great all-around card for your everyday spending as well as your travel spending. offering both dining credit as well as travel credit, it’s a great choice for travelers who also enjoy dining out. 50,000 points (after spending $4,000 in the first 3 months) no foreign transaction fees, 4x points at us restaurants and supermarkets, $100 in airline fee credit, and $120 in dining credit $250 learn more a longer list of my favorite credit cards — along with all their sign-up details and perks — can be found by clicking here. *** getting a travel credit card is simple and easy to do when you follow the steps above. once you know your goal, you can easily find the card that matches the goal and the perks you want. don’t leave money on the table! get a card, collect points, save money when you travel, and learn to travel for free! want more? learn how to travel for free with my book! want to fully maximize your travel credit cards? from taking your family to europe, flying first class, to sleeping in an overwater bungalow in the maldives, i wrote a book that will teach you how to master frequent flier and hotel loyalty programs to gain hundreds of thousands of points per year so you can travel for free. in this book, you’ll get: how to spot and get the best earning cards how to master the ins and outs of loyalty programs how to maximize your everyday spending for bonus points the secret art of earning points for free how to always find an award flight or hotel room where to discover the best travel deals the tools and resources travelers use to unlock secret fares and deals step-by-step cheat sheets >>> click here to learn more <<< nomadicmatt has partnered with cardratings for our coverage of credit card products. nomadicmatt and cardratings may receive a commission from card issuers. opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed or approved by any of these entities. photo credit: 1 facebook twitter pinterest email get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site