home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance search emerging education technologies home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance home student centered learning how to get your students to perform better – the scientific approach... how to get your students to perform better – the scientific approach (pygmalion effect) by isabell gaylord - march 27, 2020 0 share facebook twitter teaching can be extremely challenging. often you find yourself faced with a classroom made up of a diverse student body. catering to each student’s individual needs can be difficult, if not impossible. as a result, many teachers are looking for research-backed study methods to encourage their students to perform well regardless of ability. the pygmalion effect is one such method. here are some ways to get your students to perform better in classes: what is the pygmalion effect? the pygmalion effect is also known as the rosenthal effect and follows the premise that the expectations of others from a particular person can affect that person’s performance. psychologist robert rosenthal wrote that teachers who hold high expectations of their students have better-performing students than those teachers with low expectations. according to the pygmalion effect, people internalize the labels placed onto them by others. thus, those who receive positive labels from others are considered to think more positively of themselves, while those receiving negative labels think negatively of themselves. these ideas of self can affect performance, with positive ideas of self-producing better performance. how do students view teachers? the pygmalion effect not only applies from adults to children. it can be applied across all interactions between all people. as a result, a teacher’s performance can be affected by the way their students perceive them. a teacher who is perceived as a bad teacher by the students will internalize this label and perform poorly. alternatively, a teacher whose students have positive perceptions of him or her will perform better as a result of positive labels. these labels will also affect their interpersonal relationships. when a student has a negative perception of a teacher, their interactions will usually be hostile and unfavorable. teachers who make use of instructional technology tend to have a more positive reception from students. giving students a choice one way to get students feeling positive in the classroom is by giving them a choice. when students get to make choices about their learning, they feel more responsible and in control. when students are given responsibilities, they feel a positive affinity towards that class and the teacher. they feel like the teacher believes they are capable and will perform better. when students are independently in control of their learning, they feel more motivated to learn what they are expected to learn. by encouraging students to be independently in charge of their learning, teachers foster positive emotions through positive labeling, and students will perform better over time. one of the current trends is using essay writers and professional paper writers for their assignment work that helps them to reduce their workload and plan their student life better. the online thesis and dissertation writing services have helped many students to plan their schedules better and meet teacher’s expectations. inclusion part of giving students a choice when learning is including them in decision-making about learning. while the teacher is the authority in the classroom, it is essential that students feel included. these negative feelings can have a negative impact on student performance. students who can use vr in education might feel more motivated to learn. while teachers have to reach certain curriculum requirements each week, allowing students to help decide which goals to reach each week, how to reach them, and what tasks are most important can help foster positivity. students who take part in the curriculum planning process can feel cared for and may perform more positively. flipped classroom the flipped classroom method is a good way to encourage students to take charge of their learning. students can explore topics at home and use classroom time for critical thinking and intensive discussions. this method caters to a diverse classroom since students get to set the pace of their own learning. rather than spending an unnecessarily long amount of time trying to keep up with the pace of the classroom, the students get to discover the new information in a safe environment at their own pace. they then get to bring that new information to the school to discuss, allowing time for more exploration and deep discussion. engaging students in this way allows them to relax, opening opportunities for better performance. conclusion catering to diverse classrooms can be difficult, but the pygmalion effect can help improve student performance. allowing students to engage in a positive classroom environment will help improve performance. it is essential for students to have positive school experiences if the aim is improved performance. related posts if you teach a language, you need to know about the extempore app come explore, learn, share, connect at the 2018 fliptech conference (june 29 & 30 in new jersey)! recorded webinar: web apps for interactive classroom collaboration instructional technologies can improve learning outcomes and help address the challenges education faces share facebook twitter tweet previous article5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy isabell gaylord https://www.easy-essay.org/essay-writing-service/ isabell gaylord is a professional journalist at an onlineessay writing service and a contributor to various dissertation writing services that help students with assignments like thesis, essays, term papers, and dissertation help. in her free time, she likes to spend time with her friends and work on her student life blog. leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here * search the site! * get a copy of the free education technology resources ebook as our thank you for subscribing to our blog posts! subscribe name: email: we respect your email privacy categories categories select category 3 minute teaching with tech tip (video tutorials) 3d printing in education adaptive learning administrative solutions artificial intelligence assessment augmented reality, virtual reality best education and technology videos blogs & blogging book reviews collaboration & brainstorming comics and cartooning competency based education cyber safety awareness and prevention digital badges digital literacy education technology success stories educational games & gamification electronic portfolios facebook (classroom and instructional uses) financial literacy awareness flipping the classroom (reverse instruction) fln hub syndicated posts free tools & resources future of education technology interactive white boards interviews – education technology thought leaders ipads and other tablet devices iphones and smartphones learning analytics learning management & course management systems lecture capture making the case for education technologies mobile learning resources moocs (massive open online courses) morning motivation open educational resources oer picture and image editing podcasting, vodcasting, & video hosting polls, surveys portals powerpoint presentation tools professional development project based learning screencasting social media & social learning special needs students story telling & timelines student centered learning student response systems teaching coding twitter uncategorized workshops & conferences _ miscellaneous tools and topics emergingedtech on social media 9,687fanslike 320followersfollow 9,733followersfollow 2,290subscriberssubscribe popular posts 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle the multiple uses of augmented reality in education 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring come explore the flipped learning network! recognition for emergingedtech! even more news how to get your students to perform better – the scientific... march 27, 2020 5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy march 24, 2020 the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation... march 20, 2020 popular category _ miscellaneous tools and topics502 free tools & resources502 future of education technology315 making the case for education technologies283 ipads and other tablet devices259 professional development239 iphones and smartphones200 ©