menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: body language, relationships & family, social skills brett & kate mckay • march 10, 2020 last updated: march 26, 2020 how to build instant rapport navigating first impressions can be a tricky business. on the one hand, you want to be yourself, not only for the sake of authenticity, but to allow you and the other person to accurately feel out whether or not you have a connection worth pursuing. acting like someone you’re not for the sake of being initially charming may garner temporary success, but merely postpones the recognition of fundamental, relationship-dissolving differences. on the other hand, initial encounters are inevitably plagued by an atmosphere of nervousness and awkwardness, wherein small differences between the two participants, which will prove immaterial later on in the relationship, can feel outsized in significance, stymying what might develop into a strong connection. the best approach when first presenting yourself to another is thus to allow the fundamental pieces of your personality to come to the fore, while minimizing the minor differences between you that might lead either participant to prematurely write the other one off. minimizing these small differences involves reflecting more of the other person’s way of being in the world, and has happy effects for both parties. affinity-building behaviors will make you seem more immediately charming and likable right off the bat. at the same time, by allowing you to better enter the other person’s emotional ecosystem, these gestures help him or her to feel more comfortable, understood, and at ease. the result is a smoother interaction, a more relaxed, harmonious atmosphere in which to get to know each other, and the creation of instant rapport. here’s what these rapport-generating behaviors look like: match voice and vocabulary people vary in how loud or soft and fast or slow they speak. quiet and slow talkers can feel overwhelmed and off-put by loud and fast ones, while loud, fast talkers may perceive their more soft, languid-speaking peers as boring. matching the cadence and volume of your own voice to that of a person you’ve just met can reduce the chance of them making too much of this initial difference, and put them more at ease. you don’t have to match the verve of their voice entirely to where it feels artificial to you (and will come off as artificial to them). but speak a little louder or a little softer than you normally would if you’re talking to someone who speaks loudly or softly. at the same time, reiterate the vocabulary they use. if he says that such and such is “awesome,” call the things you like “awesome” too. if she says she has a “worry” about “x,” sympathize with her “worry” about x, and share your “worry” about y. mirror body language people feel more affinity for you when looking at you is like looking into a mirror. you can create this effect by reflecting the other person’s body language: if they are resting their right arm on the table, rest your left arm on the table; if they have their left leg sticking out straight, stick your right leg out straight. you don’t need to change your body’s position just as soon as they change theirs, which will feel too obvious and weird. wait a bit before you move to mirror their posture. dress similarly clothing goes a long way in whether we feel that someone else is “us” or “not us.” and you do actually want to display these differences; personal style broadcasts signals that help everyone discern who might be “my kind of person,” allowing us to more effectively find and connect with those who are. at the same time, though, your wardrobe typically incorporates things that convey different aspects of your personality, and a spectrum of messaging, and it’s wise to pick those items that will be most similar to the clothing of the folks you’ll be meeting. for example, i have both cowboy boots and leather work boots in my wardrobe. both types of footwear reflect my personal style, and i can choose which to wear to an event, based on which will fit best with the dress of the other folks in attendance. among the already existent items in your own wardrobe, you might choose a concert t-shirt or button-down, a north face puffy jacket or pea coat, a cardigan sweater or a henley, depending on which get-up will make the person you’re meeting feel the most kinship and connection. don’t be a contrarian declaring: “i’m not like you!” would be an instant rapport killer. that may seem obvious, but staking out contrary positions essentially does the same thing and yet manifests as a very common conversational tic. she says, “i think the tacos from the food truck by western park are the best in town.” you say, “i don’t like those. the ones from miguel’s are way better.” he says, “i love listening to the joe rogan podcast.” you say, “really? i can’t stand that guy.” he loved some movie; you pan it. she likes some activity; you say it’s your personal nightmare. you don’t have to completely hide your opinions, but especially when it comes to a first encounter, it’s best not to directly contradict someone else’s. doing so viscerally contributes to their deciding “he’s not my kind of person,” even though these little differences in taste aren’t likely to be relationship killers in the long run. not to mention, it shuts down the other person’s side of the conversation. so instead of responding with “not me!” to the other person’s takes, just ask him or her to share more about them. “oh yeah? what is it that you like about x?” this keeps the dialogue rolling, and when they’ve explained their opinion of things, you can add your own in a more positive way: “i’m a big fan of the tacos at miguel’s. have you tried them?” for more helpful tips on making a good first impression, listen to this podcast: related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// 18 at-home date ideas how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up how to know if a woman likes you view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy