start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising motivation work advertising published on january 22, 2020 how to figure out what motivates you at work dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. read full profile share pin it tweet share email work is called work for a reason. no matter how passionate you are about a certain field, you are inevitably going to run into aspects of your career that you are not fond of. if you are in a current position because of the money or security it provides, you may be even more impacted by the truth stated above. that said, the mindset and approach that we take when we approach anything in life is what dictates our overall experience. if i come to work feeling drained and not wanting to do anything, i am not going to get anything out of my job. if i find motivators in my job that remind me of why i am doing it, however, i am going to fare much better. the problem that many face when they are trying to find motivation around them is the actual act of becoming aware of these motivators. awareness is always the first step to change (and it is also the hardest). if you are trying to figure out what motivates you at work, continue reading below for further insight into how you can become a happier, more productive worker! step 1. take a moment to consider why you are in your current position when we work somewhere for a significant amount of time, the daily grind can become something that we do on autopilot. when we do work in this mode, we end up losing ourselves along the way. it is only when we approach work with the mindset of providing value for both the employer as well for the customer that we are able to gain some sense of achievement from it. advertising for example, let’s pretend that you are working a basic scheduling job. on the surface it may seem boring to you, causing you to lose focus and energy. when you take a closer look, however, your job is quite important. people rely on you to make sure that they are getting enough hours, that they can get important days off when they need it, and that the organization runs smoothly, even in times of crisis. you are in charge of all of these aspects, and this ultimately provides value for those around you. ask yourself, why do i have this job? is this a job that you love doing? does it involve work that you are passionate about? is there anything that you really enjoy about this position? if you can remind yourself of why you took the job in the first place, you can find that spark to do better work again. [1] if you are in a job solely for financial reasons, you can still find the motivation to work (even though it may be a little more difficult). we will dive deeper into this concept in the next section. advertising step 2. map out your future in some instances, our future is more exciting than our current situation, and that’s okay! the good news is that you can leverage your future to your advantage by using it as motivation to work harder. how? consider each job that you hold or will hold as a stepping stone on the path towards your ultimate goal. while your current job may not be super exciting or fulfilling, it serves a purpose. whether that be in the form of building your resume, teaching you new skills, helping you save the money to look for a new job, or providing extra money on the side, there is a purpose for everything! in order to benefit from the job that you have and find motivation in it, take a moment to consider the points above. then, build a plan for the future. to give you an example, let’s imagine that your path looks like this: advertising my current job as an office assistant will allow me to save money and learn important skills that i can use in a position above my own. once i finish my degree this summer, i can apply for a better job in an entry-level marketing position, where certain office-based skills will come in handy. while working in this entry-level position, i can further develop my skills on the side and ask for new projects that meet my needs and capture my interest. then, (continue your road map…) not only does a comprehensive plan remind you of how your current position serves you but, it keeps you excited in future positions as well. remember, however, that goals only work when they are specific, set to a deadline, and broken down into smaller, more achievable tasks. this will keep you highly motivated during work also![2] step 3. take things slowly and set reminders around you to keep your motivation levels high two important things to remember when you are trying to stay motivated is to avoid overwhelm and to keep yourself reminded about why you should be motivated in the first place. when it comes to work, many people make their jobs much larger and worse than they actually are. you can avoid falling into this cycle of avoidance and despair by reminding yourself that every day is a new day. you can change your schedule around to add in new and exciting things, and focus on your life outside of work. while work is an important part of your life, it doesn’t have to be draining or boring. advertising the second point above can be achieved by setting small reminders throughout your workplace. if you are someone who is already satisfied with the work that they do and the value that they provide, you can make small notes around your workspace that remind you of the services that you offer and how they help others. if you are someone who is not necessarily happy with the position that you currently hold, you can instead use tools such as goal sheets, calendars, and vision boards to help you keep track of your progress as you move toward your ideal position. however, make sure to not fall into the trap of resenting your job or acting out. this will only make getting motivated at your job harder! the bottom line motivation is always possible to find in any situation. all it takes a little effort, some gratitude, and the ability to see why your job adds value to your life and to the lives of others. if you have been having difficulty finding what motivates you at work, use the step-by-step guide above to figure out why you are in your job, where you want to go afterward, and how you can leverage this information to your advantage. what you get out of your situation is ultimately up to how you choose to perceive it! more motivational tips how to get motivated every day when you wake up 7 things that cause your lack of motivation (and how to fix them) 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams featured photo credit: emma dau via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ forbes: seven ways to get motivated at work [2] ^ the muse: 7 easy ways to get motivated at work when you’re really not in the mood share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up what are smart goals (and how to use them to become successful) 7 things that cause your lack of motivation (and how to fix them) advertising advertising more by this author dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it how to figure out what motivates you at work 25 hard work quotes to motivate you to achieve more how to do what you love successfully how to deal with failure and pick yourself back up advertising trending in motivation 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 what is resilience and why is it important? 5 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it more by this author dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it how to figure out what motivates you at work 25 hard work quotes to motivate you to achieve more how to do what you love successfully how to deal with failure and pick yourself back up trending in motivation 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 what is resilience and why is it important? 5 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it read next you are not your thoughts: 10 ways to get rid of unhealthy thoughts how self doubt keeps you stuck (and how to overcome it) how to deal with negative thoughts (the healthy way) 7 things that decrease team motivation (without you even noticing) advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in motivation 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 what is resilience and why is it important? 5 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.