menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: manly skills, tactical skills brett and kate mckay • january 11, 2017 last updated: february 27, 2019 how to turn 12 everyday items into improvised weapons “be polite, be professional, but have a plan to kill everybody you meet.” –general james “mad dog” mattis while rare, violence often strikes when you least expect it. to counter violent attacks, you need to be fast and furious. hand-to-hand combatives are a great tool to have up your sleeve to quickly dispatch an attacker, but you should always be looking for force multipliers—tools that make your counterattacks even more painful, damaging, and effective. having some sort of defensive weapon—be it a firearm, knife, or spray—as part of your edc is never a bad idea, but sometimes you don’t have one on you (like when you’re in an area that prohibits weapons), your attacker has taken or knocked your weapon away, or you’re in a position that makes drawing your weapon hard to do. thankfully, you’re constantly surrounded by potential weapons that can be quickly accessed to counter violent attacks. to find and employ them, you just need to hone the most important weapon in your arsenal—your mind. in the right hands, seemingly innocuous, everyday items can be turned into lethal weapons. such a transformation just requires violating those objects’ aristotelian telos—the end for which they were made. if your life is on the line, i don’t think old aristotle would mind. below we offer 12 suggestions of everyday objects that can be turned into improvised weapons. use this as a jumping off point to think of how other objects could save your life in a pinch. when you’re out and about in public, practice scanning your environment and considering what might be used as a weapon if needed. think of it as creating mental models for your ooda loop so you can win the fight if/when it comes your way. pot of hot coffee there’s nothing like the smell of coffee brewing when you first wake up in the morning. and if you’re ever attacked while pouring your cup of joe, you can take comfort in the fact that you’re not just holding something wonderfully fragrant, but a great weapon as well. smash the pot into your attacker’s face. the blunt force will stun him, the shards of glass will embed in his kisser, and the scalding hot coffee will make him wish he stayed home that morning. coffee mug same principle as the coffee pot, just on a smaller scale. throw the hot coffee from your mug into the attacker’s face and then proceed to bash him in his fleshy mug with caffeinated ferocity. fire extinguisher fire extinguishers cannot only save your life in a fire, but in a violent attack as well. spray the assailant in the face to temporarily distract him and disrupt his ooda loop. while he’s figuring out what’s going on, forcefully bludgeon him in the head with the extinguisher’s canister. a pen in the right hands, the pen can indeed be mightier than the sword. a stainless steel pen like this zebra number can be used to stab an assailant. hold it with an overhand grip and aim for vulnerable parts of the body like the face and throat. if you really want to up your writing-implement-as-weapon game, get a true tactical pen like this smith & wesson. keys your keys can start your car or let you into your house. they can also savagely maim a violent attacker. hold the keys in your hand so their points are coming out between the fingers of your fist. proceed to punch your attacker in vulnerable parts of the body like the face and throat. locking carabiner carabineers are an important tool for mountain climbers and have become a go-to key holder for action-oriented gents. they can also serve as field-expedient knuckledusters in a pinch. if you want to use a carabiner as an improvised weapon, make sure it’s big enough to fit around your fist and has a locking collar (to prevent it from snapping open while you punch a mo’ fo’). while aluminum carabineers should be able to withstand the impact, for added strength, use a steel one. wristwatch for a variation on the above, turn your metal wristwatch into a quick-n-dirty knucklebuster by holding the bracelet inside your fist, and positioning its face across your middle knuckles. james bond uses his rolex oyster perpetual in this way to knock out a bad guy in on her majesty’s secret service. keep in mind that the impact of this move will likely break your timepiece. bond was able to write off the destruction of his watch to his expense account. you won’t. of course, losing your wristwatch will be a small price to pay if it saves your life. aluminum water bottle an aluminum water bottle helps you stay hydrated while avoiding all those testosterone-lowering xenoestrogens found in plastic bottles. it can also be used to inflict blunt force trauma on a violent attacker. ideally, you want the bottle to have some liquid in it in order to give your makeshift club more heft and weight. bash your assailant’s head and face with it. if you’ve got some time and if your bottle has a key ring, put your belt through the ring and tie it off. you’ve got yourself a medieval flail. belt just as you should remember that your belt should match the color of your shoes, you should also remember that it can be used as a weapon in a pinch. first, you can use a belt the same way parents used to employ it on their kids back in the day—for whoopins. but unlike its use in dishing out old fashioned corporal punishment, you’re not going to hold back on your attacker. give him the ass whoopin’ of a lifetime. make sure he gets the buckle end of the belt. aim for the face. the advantage of using a belt as an improvised bludgeon is not only the significant damage it can inflict, but the distance it allows you to put between you and your attacker. the second way you can use a belt as a weapon is as a force multiplier when strangling an assailant. hornet spray i got this improvised weapon idea while interviewing navy seal clint emerson. hornet spray is pepper spray on steroids. the former can usually shoot up to 20 feet and provides a much more directed stream than you find with the latter. what’s more, the chemical used in hornet spray is much more potent than pepper spray and can potentially permanently blind an attacker. keep in mind, that due to the possible maiming effects of hornet spray, one should only use it in life-threatening situations (like during a home invasion). using hornet spray as an everyday self-defense tool is illegal in most jurisdictions. flashlight every man should not only carry a flashlight, but know how to use it in a tactical scenario. not only can it help you find stuff in the dark and act as a deterrent to would-be attackers, it can also be used as a weapon. maglite heavy duty d cell flashlights make for a great makeshift billy club, and many specialized tactical flashlights end with a serrated or toothed bezel that can be used as an improvised striking device during an attack. after you’ve shined the bright light of a high-powered flashlight in your attacker’s eyes and disoriented him, strike his face with the toothed bezel as hard as you can. the motion should be like forcefully stamping him with a giant rubber stamp. smartphone today’s smartphones have been designed to take a beating; consequently, they can be used to give a beating. tightly grasp your smartphone in your hand and slam the edge and corners of it into vulnerable parts of the body like the eyes, nose, and neck. you could also put your phone in a sock or other piece of clothing to make an improvised sap—a weighted impact weapon. whether you’re at home, the office, or out on the town, everyday objects that could be turned into weapons are all around you. should you find yourself facing a violent threat, be ready to grab something and win the fight. related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// 10 tips for tackling your first major diy automotive repair cool uncle tricks: make a salt shaker disappear how to make a ladder from tubular webbing how to take care of rope view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy