wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to find and fix broken links in wordpress (step by step) how to find and fix broken links in wordpress (step by step) last updated on november 7th, 2019 by editorial staff 217 shares share tweet share pin everyone agrees that broken links are bad for user experience. but did you know that broken links can significantly hurt your wordpress seo rankings? yes, it’s proven that having broken internal links on your website negatively impacts seo rankings. in this article, we will show you how to easily find and fix broken links in wordpress, so you can improve your user experience and seo rankings. what is a broken link? a broken link, also known as dead link, is a link that no longer works. broken links can happen for many reasons, but the most common reason is when a page is either deleted or moved to a different location which causes the server to show a 404 not found error. on wordpress sites, broken links typically occur when moving a site to new domain name, or when deleting a post or page without proper redirection. sometimes broken links can also happen due to a typo, and they can go unnoticed for months if not years. this is why it’s extremely important to regularly monitor broken links on your site and fix them, so you can keep them from hurting your seo rankings. in this guide, we will share top four methods to find broken links in wordpress. after that, we will show you an easy way to fix those broken links. here’s a table of content for easy navigation: finding broken links using semrush finding broken links using ahrefs finding broken links using google search console finding broken links using broken link checker plugin how to fix broken links in wordpress ready? let’s get started. video tutorial subscribe to wpbeginner if you don’t like the video or need more instructions, then continue reading. method 1. finding broken links using semrush semrush is one of the best seo tool on the market. it allows you to easily monitor your website’s seo rankings and overall health. it also includes a powerful site audit tool that crawls your website to find common errors and prepare a detailed report for you. first, you’ll need to sign up for a semrush account. it is a paid service, but they do offer a limited free account which allows you to crawl up to 100 pages on one domain name. paid plan limits start from 100,000 pages a month. once you are logged in, you need to click on the ‘site audit’ link from the left menu. this will bring you to the site audit page. from here, click on the ‘new site audit’ button at the top to add your website. you will be asked to enter your domain name. after that, you will be asked to configure site audit settings. you can select the number of pages to crawl and choose a crawl source. click on the start crawling button to continue. semrush will now begin crawling your website for the site audit. this may take a few minutes depending on how many pages you selected for the crawl. once finished, you can click on your domain under the site audit section to view your report. to see the broken links on your site, you will need to click on the ‘broken’ link under the report overview. you can now click on the export button at the top right corner of the screen to download your crawl report. you will need it when fixing broken links on your website (more on this later in the article). method 2. finding broken links using ahrefs ahrefs is an excellent all-in-one seo tool for marketers, businesses, and seo professionals. it offers detailed seo insights into your own website or any of your competitors. you can use it for keyword research, competition analysis, organic and paid keyword ideas, and site health monitoring including broken links. first, you’ll need to sign up for an ahrefs account. it is a paid service with plans starting from $99 per month. they also offer a full featured 7 day trial for $7. once you are logged into your ahref’s dashboard, you need to enter your domain name under the site explorer tool. site explorer tool will now crawl your website to prepare reports. this may take some time depending on how much content you have on your website. once finished, you’ll see an overview of your site explorer results. from here, you need to click on the pages » best by links menu and then sort your report by 404 status. you can now export your report in csv format to fix the broken links on your wordpress site. method 3. finding broken links in wordpress using google search console google search console is a free tool offered by google to help webmasters manage their site’s visibility in search results. it also notifies you about errors including 404 errors which are caused by a broken link. for more details, see our ultimate google search console guide with step by step set up instructions. after you have logged in to your google search console account, click on the ‘coverage’ link from the left menu. you’ll find 404 errors either under errors or excluded tabs. clicking on them will show you a list of errors or issues google encountered while visiting your website. clicking on the 404 error will show you all the links on your website that are broken links and return a 404 error. you can now click on the download button to get the list of all 404 errors on your website. you’ll need this to fix broken links on your website. method 4. finding broken links in wordpress using broken link checker for this method, we’ll be using the broken link checker plugin. however, this method is not recommended because it is resource-intensive and will slow down your website. managed wordpress hosting companies like wp engine already block users from installing this plugin on their servers. the plugin checks for broken links on your website including both internal and external links that are resulting in a 404 error. first, you’ll need to install and activate the broken link checker plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, the plugin will start working in the background to find links in your posts, pages, and comments. you can now go to tools » broken links page to view the full report. if you have been running your wordpress blog for a long time, then this report will include broken links to third-party websites as well. you will have to manually sort the list to find broken links on your website. you will need to keep broken link checker active on your website until you fix broken links. after that, you can deactivate the plugin because it will keep checking for broken links which will slow down your server. how to properly fix broken links in wordpress we have shown you four different methods to find broken links in wordpress. now let’s talk about how to easily fix broken links in wordpress. the best way to fix a broken link is to redirect it to another page. for example, if you moved the contents of an article to a different address, then you will need to redirect it to the newer article. similarly, if an article does not exist anymore, then you would want to point users to a similar page that is closely related to the contents of the old article. you can do this by setting up 301 redirects. first, you will need to install and activate the redirection plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to visit tools » redirection page to set up redirects. you need to add the old broken link in the ‘source url’ field and the new url in the ‘target url’ field. after that, click on the ‘add redirect’ button to save your changes. you can now test this by visiting the old broken link, and you’ll be redirected to the new page. repeat the process for all broken links on your website. for more information, see our guide on how to set up redirects in wordpress for beginners. we hope this article helped you learn how to easily find and fix broken links in wordpress. you may also want to see our actionable tips on how to optimize your images for web, and our pick of the best wordpress membership plugins to create a membership site. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 217 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 51 commentsleave a reply raaz shrestha says: nov 11, 2019 at 9:59 pm thanks for the great stuff on link broken. the article were amazing. it not just only shows to find the broken link but the way you give the solution for the problem is always the best part. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 12, 2019 at 10:10 am you’re welcome, glad you’ve found our content helpful reply riky fahri hasibuan says: nov 11, 2019 at 8:01 pm this is what i’m looking for! i have 301 redirecy plugin in my website but i have no idea how to use it properly. thank you so much for this useful tutorial. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 12, 2019 at 10:09 am you’re welcome, glad our tutorial could be helpful reply carol mankin says: jun 6, 2019 at 4:12 am thanks for sharing this blog. your blog is very informative regarding broken websites. the points you shared, are very useful for broken website repair services. it is important that everyone must follow some good tips for their broken website. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 6, 2019 at 11:01 am thank you, glad our content could be helpful reply janie says: sep 12, 2018 at 10:04 pm i installed this plug in and it says no broken links detected. i cannot imagine that is accurate because the site is big and definitely has some broken links. do i need to reconfigure something to get it to run accurately? reply greg says: jun 27, 2018 at 3:10 pm thank you for this great post ! do you know how to bulk export broken links with this plug-in ? or maybe, if you have one in stock, even a mysql request could be used to export them within phpmyadmin. cheers reply christopher says: may 19, 2018 at 12:09 pm can yoast seo handle the same function of the broken link checker? reply wpbeginner support says: may 21, 2018 at 4:15 pm no it doesn’t. reply efetack says: jan 2, 2019 at 11:25 pm well, i have just read that yoast seo has this function, too. it detects and corrects broken links, even directly from google console, if wanted, and with a easy button in tool bar, but only premium version. so have to pay for it. i am wondering, if i can keep trusting you guys, seeing that you don’t answer to all questions here, and also how can you review a plugin when it is not updated for over a year??? in wp > install new plugin > the thumbnail is even missing of this plugin. wow. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 3, 2019 at 1:55 pm thank you for your feedback, we are working on improving our answers to comments. for clarification, this article was updated in august, we will certainly look into updating articles such as this one as we find they need updates so thank you for letting us know that we should look into this article. andrzej says: feb 12, 2018 at 8:58 pm one question: the best solution is unlinking or dismiss broken links? reply sine thieme says: nov 28, 2017 at 11:27 am i’m pretty sure i already know the answer but i’ll ask anyway: this is just for self-hosted sites on wordpress.org, not wordpress.com, correct? is there any way to check broken links on a wordpress.com blog? i am in the process of converting from blogger and i have over 700 blog posts that all have internal links. in other words, a big pain. i suppose i’ll eventually have to manually fix them in any case, but seeing the broken links would give me a priority of which ones to fix first. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 28, 2017 at 1:57 pm hi sine thieme, yes, this is for wordpress.org websites. we will suggest that you export your blog posts in xml format using the built in wordpress.com export tool. after that you can use an advanced text editor like notepad++ or textwrangler (for mac), use simple search and replace tool in the editor to replace old blogger urls with your wordpress.com urls. reply selore says: nov 19, 2017 at 5:56 pm after i activate that plugin i got error. the plugin generated 1690 characters of unexpected output during activation. if you notice “headers already sent” messages, problems with syndication feeds or other issues, try deactivating or removing this plugin. reply janie says: dec 18, 2016 at 11:03 am hi- i use link cloaker and it seems that broken link checker is not picking up the links that are not good because those bad links are directed to my homepage. i don’t want those links to be directed to my homepage. i want them to come up as broken so i can fix them. how can this be fixed? thanks reply masi says: oct 16, 2016 at 5:36 am how can fix incoming broken back-links? reply john okosun says: mar 10, 2018 at 5:03 am you can fix that by performing a 301 redirection. so whenever such a link is access from another site, your site simply redirects the person to a new url. a plugin for this is redirection wordpress plugin hope that helps. reply abbeylashly says: jul 19, 2016 at 10:15 am i have tried this solution, but didnt work for me my website is thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 19, 2016 at 12:43 pm did you get an error? reply mazid chowdhury says: nov 10, 2015 at 8:38 am i was really able to solve my broken links through this article. thanks to the author. reply ravi says: dec 24, 2014 at 1:42 pm thanks! i’m running broken link checker now to fix dozens of broken links on my site. my google organic search traffic plummeted this year after moving to a new domain…and wasn’t sure why. i think broken links is the reason (just realizing a lot of my old posts are busted). has anyone had direct experience with improved google ranking seo after fixing broken links? what was the before/after result? reply rick says: oct 2, 2017 at 2:47 pm i’ve been using broken link checker for a while at this domain. after fixing them, seems fairly frequently, i need to do so again, say a few weeks after fixing a bunch. reply tj says: jun 15, 2014 at 12:45 am i do not recommend this plugin. it is a serious cpu hog that will slow down your site and possibly use up your cpu allocation. a number of host providers have banned it. if you want to check your links you are better off running an app from your computer to check run an external check. reply wpbeginner staff says: may 14, 2014 at 4:08 pm yes it does and it is not recommended to use it too often. reply arieon maison says: may 13, 2014 at 11:50 pm just wondering if the plugin have some effect with the speed of the site. reply arieon maison says: may 13, 2014 at 11:42 pm does the plugin will slow the site? reply jeanne melanson says: apr 30, 2014 at 7:39 pm very helpful advice, thank you. now i know what to do with my broken links. cheers! reply kamal singh says: dec 7, 2013 at 6:51 am thanks for sharing this great plugins reply abhishek taneja says: oct 7, 2013 at 5:23 am i found 34 broken links in my blog..thanks for sharing this article , it has been useful for me reply saurabh says: aug 29, 2013 at 2:37 pm is there any plugin available for the blogger site?? reply editorial staff says: aug 30, 2013 at 6:52 am none that we’re aware of. reply amy says: aug 29, 2013 at 1:18 pm broken link checker has been very handy for me – but what is that green tab (shown in this post’s last screenshot and is there any way to hide it? this is extremely confusing for clients and i find it even worse than sidebar ads. any ideas on how to manage this? thanks! reply editorial staff says: aug 30, 2013 at 6:55 am unfortunately, no way to get rid of it without editing the plugin (at least that is our understanding). you can always contact the plugin author and make a suggestion. reply corey says: aug 28, 2013 at 3:57 pm what do you do if it tells you that some links are broken but they are not? i went to the pages and double checked the link and it works fine. reply bongo says: aug 26, 2013 at 4:32 am sounds useful, i wish it was around a year ago… reply stijn says: aug 26, 2013 at 4:16 am used blc in the past. it’s good to use from time to time, but creates a lot of bloat in your database. that’s probably because of my massive post archive. reply mike says: sep 12, 2013 at 3:42 am stun, did the same on my site…over 6,000 posts. however after running the wp-optimize plugin, the database was nice and clean again. reply iris says: aug 26, 2013 at 3:00 am this will improve my work, a lot. reply peter gerwing says: aug 25, 2013 at 10:58 pm i use wpengine.. this is what they have to say about: “there’s another class of plugins that we disallow simply because they cause a high load on our servers or create an unnatural number of mysql queries. broken link checker — overwhelms even our robust caching layer with an inordinate amount of http requests.” on their hosting service it is a disallowed plugn! “wpengine” reccommends: to track traffic in a more scalable manner, both the stats module in automattic’s jetpack plugin and google analytics work wonderfully. reply chathu says: aug 29, 2013 at 12:52 pm yes same here. i have vps with 1.5gb ram. this plugin slowdown my blog. reply editorial staff says: aug 30, 2013 at 6:54 am you’re not suppose to keep the plugin on. use it during your spring clean up (like every 6 months). turn it on. check if everything is good, and then delete it. reply jeannette paladino says: aug 25, 2013 at 1:24 pm i use broken link checker and it is very useful. but why would you disable the plugin after using it the first time? i receive notifications every few days that the plugin has found a couple of more broken links. usually, because when an a site i linked to has shut down, or the link has become corrupted or a blogger removed a post, — any number of reasons. it is not helpful for seo — or to your visitors — when they click on a bad click. i believe broken link checker should be active all the time. reply ian says: aug 25, 2013 at 5:19 am really realistic and useful. reply martin velthuizen says: aug 24, 2013 at 8:49 am thank you for letting us know about this great plugin! started to use it on some website right away. i don’t understand why i should disable the plugin after initial use and wait 6 months to run it manually again. it appears to me that i can leave it active, and it will check the links automatically every so many hours and send me a mail if it has found a broken link. much better, isn’t it? thanks in advance for your opinion on this. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 10, 2013 at 9:30 pm it is but running a script so many times particularly the one that keeps checking all your posts can be resource incentive on your website. reply e.s. ivy says: aug 23, 2013 at 9:30 am i want to finish seeting up my .org site first, but as i’m moving from .com this will be a great tool! thank you! reply monica says: aug 23, 2013 at 9:29 am i installed the broken link checker plugin a few months ago and immediately following the installation my site crashed. i would love to have it but i am afraid to install it again. reply frans says: sep 15, 2013 at 6:05 pm i had the same problem, i had to delete the plugin by ftp, because the rest of my screen was whit and it was nog possible to active or deactive it. sad, because in my other site it worked well, both site are on the same server. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 17, 2013 at 5:41 pm you can temporarily switch to a default wordpress theme like twenty twelve and then activate the plugin. if it works you can then check for broken links, fix them, and then revert back to your own theme. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.