home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) tips tips for writers by william mamane editor’s note: are you a writer? do you speak a second language? to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own), then, might be an unexpected income stream… many writers focus solely on their own writing projects, honing their craft over the years and pursuing that goal of making a living from writing. few consider the advantages of collaborating with another writer, and fewer still think to make money translating another author’s work. however, doing so can be a lucrative source of fees, recurring royalties, and sales income. if you have a decent grasp of a second language, it may be worth translating a fellow writer’s work (whether a novel or a series of blog posts) from that language into your mother tongue. let us walk you through how to go about it. what are translation services in the literary world? what is translation? in this day and age, it’s far more than an academic exercise. companies around the world use professional translation services to operate across national borders, while translation is also a way to establish important cultural connections, for example through the sharing of literature. it’s been accepted for many years that just 3% of the literature that english speakers consume is working in translation. however, a report by nielsen book in 2019 indicated a significant jump in this figure, at least for the uk market, where the consumption of translated fiction rose by 5.5% in 2018. sales of translated fiction for the year totalled £20.7 million (us$27.2 million). until such time as a universal translator exists, translation services will be required in order to support this growing trend. if you would like to try your hand at being a language translator for a fellow author, here’s how. delivering professional translation services to supplement your income if you want to know how to make money through translation, the first thing to do is build up some experience. nobody is likely to hire you to translate their novel until you’ve proven your credentials. you can register with a translation company to get a taste for the work and to begin building up your experience and reputation. translators usually translate into their native language, so a portuguese translator from the uk (for example) would translate portuguese to english, while a translator from brazil would translate english to portuguese. swapping this around (so the uk native would be translating english to portuguese) is inadvisable – translation quality is usually higher when the translation work is from the translator’s second language and into their native tongue. registering with a translation agency is simple, as is setting up to sell your literary translation services online. it’s worth establishing your own website as soon as you’re sure you want to make money translating – the process is much the same as when you established your writer platform. where to offer my translation services? that’s easy too. hit up the freelancing sites (upwork, fiverr and the like) and get networking on sites like translatorscafé and proz. you can even directly approach literary agents, starting with your own! if you’re wondering how to make money online by translating blog posts rather than novels, the process is much the same – just focus advertising your document translation services to bloggers rather than those writing more substantial works of literature. how much do translation services cost? a key aspect of working out how to offer translation services is knowing how much to charge. if you worked with a translation company to build up your experience, you should have an idea of what they pay. to find out what translation services charge, ask a translation agency or two for a quote based on your particular language pairing (prices for different languages differ wildly). you can use the resulting pricing information to set your own rates before advertising your services. bear in mind that some flexibility may be required in terms of your costs when it comes to reaching an agreement to translate a writer’s work. you will likely each have your own ideas about how the financial arrangements should work (fixed fee, royalties, sales income, etc.), so you will need to negotiate and compromise until you are both happy. once you’ve successfully completed a couple of substantial literary translation projects, it’s time to review your rates as part of your growing reputation for excellence in all things language-related. in the language world, services exist to connect readers around the world through literature. if you provide such a service, it’s only right that your remuneration should increase hand-in-hand with your experience, as you strive to be the best translator you can be. make money translating and gain more than just financial rewards while making serious money is one obvious benefit of translating other writers’ works, it’s far from the only one. translation can be intellectually challenging and creatively stimulating. it’s also entirely feasible that the translation process could help you to improve your original writing skills. getting paid to undertake work that can enhance your own writing ability? that sounds like a sensible idea to us. tweet pin share related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson about the author william mamane william mamane is head of digital marketing at tomedes, a translation agency that has been helping different cultures to connect since 2007. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here visualize, organize, and write anything faster and easier than ever before! writer's blocks is simple, powerful writing software that makes your writing faster, easier and smarter. grab the fully-functional free trial of writer's blocks here writing for life workshops master the craft of fiction writing. popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera market your writing qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >