wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials » how to easily move wordpress to a new domain (without losing seo) how to easily move wordpress to a new domain (without losing seo) last updated on february 14th, 2019 by editorial staff 766 shares share tweet share pin do you want to move your wordpress site to a new domain? changing your website’s domain name can significantly impact your seo rankings, and it’s a process that needs to be done very carefully. while you cannot avoid temporary seo fluctuations when moving your website to a new domain, you can definitely minimize the impact and quickly regain your search traffic and rankings. in this guide, we will show you the proper way to move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo. here’s the 5 step process that we will cover to help you migrate your wordpress site to a new domain name: create a duplicator package of your wordpress site create a database for new domain name unpack wordpress on new domain setup permanent 301 redirects notify google about the change before you start before you start, we want to emphasize a few things. the process of switching to a new domain will temporarily affect your search engine rankings as google and other search engines adjust to the changes. yes, this will also temporarily affect your search traffic as well. please keep in mind that this is normal, and it happens to all websites that switch to a new domain. however, you can dramatically decrease the seo impact by following this guide. we will show you the right way of moving your wordpress site to a new domain name, setting up proper 301 redirects, and notifying search engines. please note that this guide is not for moving wordpress site to a new web host. this is for switching a domain name. yes, while the process is similar, there are extra things involved in this process. pre-steps in this guide, we are assuming that you have your wordpress site setup on oldsite.com, and you are trying to migrate it to newsite.com. we are also assuming that you already have a web hosting account, and you are familiar with your web hosting control panel. you will also need to know how to use ftp. in case you don’t have a web hosting account, we recommend using bluehost (great for small sites + comes with a free domain) or wp engine (great for large sites). once you have your new web hosting account and domain name, you’re ready to start the process. step 1: create a duplicator package of your wordpress site the first thing you need to do is create a full backup of your wordpress site. while there are many wordpress backup plugins available, the one we’re going to show in this step does both backups and migrations. it’s duplicator and it’s a completely free plugin. let’s start by installing and activating the duplicator plugin on your old domain name. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. once activated, the plugin will add a duplicator menu item in your wordpress admin. you need to click on the duplicator menu, and then click on the create button to create a new package. after that, you will be asked to click on the next button to continue. duplicator will now run the website duplicator wizard. first, it will run some tests to see if everything is in order. if all items are marked ‘good’, then click on the ‘build’ button. the plugin will now start creating a duplicator package of your wordpress site. this process may take a few minutes depending on the size of your website. once finished, you’ll see download options for installer and the archive package. you need to click on the ‘one click download’ link to download both files to your computer. the archive file is a complete copy of your website, and this will allow you to move wordpress to another domain name. the installer script will automate and run the migration by unpacking the archive file. step 2. create a database for new domain name before you can move, you’ll need a database to unpack wordpress on your new domain name. if you have already created a database, then you can skip this step. to create a database, you need to visit your hosting account’s cpanel dashboard, scroll down to the ‘databases’ section, and then click on the ‘mysql databases’ icon. on the next screen, you’ll see a field to create a new database. simply provide a name for your database and click on the ‘create database’ button. cpanel will now create a new database for you. after that, you need to scroll down to the mysql users section. next, provide a username and password for your new user and click on the ‘create a user’ button. the new user you just created, still does not have permission to work on the database. let’s change that. scroll down to the ‘add user to database’ section. simply select the database user you created from the dropdown menu next to the ‘user’ field, then select the database, and click on the add button. your database is now ready to be used on for moving wordpress to the new domain name. make sure to note down the database name, username, and password. you’ll need this information in the next step. step 3. unpacking wordpress on new domain name now you need to upload the duplicator files you downloaded earlier to your new domain name. first, connect to your domain name using an ftp client. once connected, make sure that the root directory of your website is completely empty. after that, you can upload the archive and installer files to the root directory. once both files have finished uploading, you are now ready to unpack wordpress. open a new browser tab and go to the following url: http://example.com/installer.php don’t forget to replace example.com with your new domain name. this will launch the duplicator migration wizard. the installer will look for the archive file. you need to check the terms and conditions checkbox and click on the next button to continue. now, the installer will ask you to enter your wordpress database information. your host will likely be localhost. after that, you will enter the details of the database you created for your new domain name in the earlier step. once done, click on the next button to continue. duplicator will now unpack your wordpress database backup from the archive into your new database. next, it will ask you to update site url or path. you shouldn’t have to change anything since it automatically detects the url of your new domain name and its path. if it doesn’t, then you can change the url to your new domain name. after that, click on the next button to continue. duplicator will now finish the migration. you can click on the ‘admin login’ button to enter the wordpress admin area of your website on the new domain name. step 4. setting up permanent 301 redirects setting up a permanent 301 redirect is very important for both seo and user experience. this step will allow you to automatically redirect users and search engines to your new domain name. in other words, whenever someone lands on one of your old posts or pages, they will be automatically redirected to your site on the new domain. to setup a permanent 301 redirect, you need to connect to your old site using ftp and edit the .htaccess file. this will be located in the same directory as your wp-includes or wp-admin folder. open the .htaccess file and paste the following code at the very top: 
#options +followsymlinks
rewriteengine on
rewriterule ^(.*)$ http://www.newsite.com/$1 [r=301,l]
 note: replace newsite.com with your new domain in the above code. once you have applied these changes, then visit your old domain name. it should automatically redirect you to the new domain. if it doesn’t, then it means the redirection is not setup properly, and your server likely doesn’t support redirect rules. you need to reach your web hosting’s support to get rewriteengine turned on. step 5. notifying google about the change now that you have moved wordpress to a new domain name and setup redirects, it is time to notify google about the change of address. this will help google find your new domain name quickly and start showing it in search results. first, you need to add your new domain name to the google search console. see step 1 in our google search console guide for instructions. after you have added your new site, you need to switch to the old version of google search console. next, you need to switch to your old domain name and then click on the gear icon at the top to launch change of address tool. on the next screen, google search console will show you a step by step wizard to submit your change of address request. first it will ask you to select your new site from the drop down menu. after that, click on the check button to test 301 redirects and then confirm verification. finally, click on the submit button to send your address change request. notify users about the move to new domain name while the 301 redirects do their job, it is always good to make a public announcement about the migration. you can do this by simply writing a blog post on your new site and sharing it on your social media accounts. if you have an email marketing list, then you should send a newsletter to let all your subscribers know. this can be helpful in a lot of ways. first and foremost, your users are more likely to remember the new domain once they read about it. second, you can ask your users to let you know if they see any bugs. you alone cannot test your site in all different type of browsers and system environments. it’s always helpful to have a fresh pair of eyes looking at it. we hope that this tutorial helped you move your wordpress site to a new domain name. you may also want to see our guide on how to track your search keyword rankings after moving to a new domain name. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 766 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 395 commentsleave a reply rohan says: feb 27, 2020 at 12:14 am hii after changing domain name do i need to take apply for adsense again? my previous domain already has adsense approved. do i need to reapply for a new domain name? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 27, 2020 at 8:56 am you would need to add the new domain to your sites list on your current adsense account reply mickey gee says: feb 25, 2020 at 3:46 pm this is what i get after i uploaded the file successfully error establishing a database connection reply wpbeginner support says: feb 26, 2020 at 8:46 am there are a few possible reasons, you would want to start by taking a look at our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-fix-the-error-establishing-a-database-connection-in-wordpress/ reply dileep kumar says: feb 2, 2020 at 6:10 am after move wordpress to a new domain , how can i change url in adsense account. and any effect on my adsense earning becouse my blog 2 year old. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 3, 2020 at 9:01 am you would need to add your new domain to your sites list in your adsense settings. for earnings, there are too many factors beyond the domain name for us to give you an idea about any changes. reply karina says: jan 16, 2020 at 5:31 pm how do you do with old 301s in htaccess that go from old sub-pages to new sub-pages in the old domain?thanks for a very good guide! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 17, 2020 at 9:18 am with how the redirect code is set up it should redirect all of your content on your site not only the home page. reply karina says: jan 23, 2020 at 11:44 am but old 301 on the old domain then? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 24, 2020 at 8:40 am correct, create the 301 redirects on the old domain. jip meertens says: jan 3, 2020 at 5:52 am great hands-on tut up to the almost-end of step 3. now did i oversee something? i am completely blank on how (which user/pw combination to use) to log in to the new wp admin? nowhere on the journey did i make a new wp installation, so i do not store any log-in credentials for the wp dashboard… pls? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 3, 2020 at 10:18 am you would use the same login information as the previous site as the user table would be duplicated in this process as well reply shantell smith says: sep 27, 2019 at 1:20 pm i searched for two days until i came across your blog. i have tried 3 or 4 different codes and none of them worked. i tried yours and it worked like a charm. thanks. but this post needs to be updated. you can no longer switch back to the old version of console and i was unable to find a change of address option. but still great posts. thanks a bunch! reply wpbeginner support says: sep 30, 2019 at 9:47 am glad our recommendation worked, google has changed where it is located but if you use their search for tools in your console you should still be able to use the change of address tool. reply viral says: aug 22, 2019 at 1:38 pm many thanks for this very helpful tutorial. it has worked perfectly! just a small query… in the last step 5, google search console says this ‘change of address’ function works only for root level domains (while i’ve a blog address in the form abc.co.in/example) hence, is there an alternative method that can be used here, or will the 301 redirects (incorporated in step 4) suffice? many thanks again for the wonderful help throughout all the articles… lots of good wishes! reply wpbeginner support says: aug 23, 2019 at 9:25 am if it is not only the root domain then the 301 redirects would be what you want to stay with and should be good enough for now reply matt pettitt says: aug 20, 2019 at 9:29 am hi, thanks – this is interesting. two weeks ago i migrated 3 sites into 1 new site, using the above process. all looks good as far as 301 re-directs are concerned but very few of the posts on the new domain are showing in the serp. also, many still have the old domain – because of this, organic traffic is down about 60% currently. do you know how long it takes for google to re-crawl, re-index and sort this stuff out? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 20, 2019 at 10:09 am sadly, when merging multiple sites rather than only changing the domain, it can vary from site to site for how long it takes. reply samson ogola says: aug 2, 2019 at 2:42 pm this tutorial is always my go-to piece whenever i’m moving or redirecting a website. a life-saver i must say. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 5, 2019 at 10:45 am glad our guide can help reply john akpama says: jul 31, 2019 at 6:58 am thanks for being such an immense help. i have a challenge in using duplicator. i went as far as creating the package and uploaded it to the new domain (a subdomain actually). the problem is when i try to install it i get a 403 error that keeps me stuck at the 1st step. how do i resolve this please? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 1, 2019 at 9:29 am there are a few possible reasons, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-fix-the-403-forbidden-error-in-wordpress/ reply ibrahim garba says: jul 28, 2019 at 5:20 pm i’m so excited! finally moved my wp site without any issue. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jul 29, 2019 at 11:54 am you’re welcome, glad our guide could help reply himanshu nishad says: jul 27, 2019 at 10:51 pm here, you told the old domain is redirected to the new domain. if i have to show a website in the old domain name. i will be able to upload website old domain name? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 29, 2019 at 11:40 am you would need to clarify your question. if you redirect the old domain but want a site on the old domain then you would need to remove the redirection for the site content to show reply zeeshan malik says: jul 22, 2019 at 8:39 am as usual very well explain each step. i want to add one more point some websites leave a message in old domain when someone visit to old domain he reads about website transferred to an other domain like stumble upon when i visit to this site i read stumble up move to mix. i want to know is it possible to move data like classified ads from one website (website created in wordpress to another website with same domain name but cms platform change to joomla or drupal or in reverse? without effecting website seo? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 22, 2019 at 1:21 pm changing platforms will always have a temporary effect on your seo but overall there shouldn’t be any long-lasting effects on your site’s seo reply ana says: jul 22, 2019 at 8:10 am best articles on the planet! thank you wpbeginner for making life so much easier for the non-tech website owners! keep up the good work reply wpbeginner support says: jul 22, 2019 at 1:22 pm thank you, glad you like our articles reply alix says: jul 18, 2019 at 3:13 pm thank you so much for this! i always thought this was a daunting task but you have made it so very easy. great article. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 22, 2019 at 11:34 am thank you, glad we could help simplify the process reply paul therond says: jul 14, 2019 at 1:10 am how long do you recommend keeping the old website domain redirecting to the new domain for the purposes of seo? is it best to keep it forever or is there a point where all the juice from the old domain has been passed onto the new one and the old domain can be discarded? thanks for your article it gave me the push to finally do the rebrand launch! reply wpbeginner support says: jul 15, 2019 at 11:47 am sadly, that question varies from site to site and what works best for the individual reply michael chibuzor says: jul 3, 2019 at 8:50 pm thorough content. thank you. my question is, in step 3 you said “make sure the root domain is completely empty.” i’m a bit confused here. i want to be able to move an old site to a new one site, these are not empty domains but functional websites with about 50 pages each. the reason why i want to merge site a and site b (the main site becomes site b) is because they’re both in the same industry, so i want to stay focused. can i still use this tutorial to migrate my old site to the new site — seeing the root domain isn’t completely empty? please help me. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 5, 2019 at 3:16 pm for what it sounds like you’re wanting to do, you wouldn’t want to use this guide, you would want to import your content on to the site where you want it to appear and then have your hosting provider set the secondary domain to point toward your primary domain. reply martin says: may 31, 2019 at 6:45 am hi. this is not redirecting the main domain (e.g example.com) but only every other link after it. how to redirect even the main domain? reply wpbeginner support says: may 31, 2019 at 10:39 am you may want to check with your hosting provider to ensure they’re not preventing the redirect in some way reply cassandra says: may 25, 2019 at 5:18 pm i am stuck at step 3. i try to go to example.com/installer.php (yes i use my domain name) and nothing happens. it just takes me to my site welcome page saying a new webpage will be built soon. i cannot get the duplicator app to come up. i saw other comments on here to use www. first but that also does not work. help please! reply wpbeginner support says: may 28, 2019 at 1:55 pm you may want to check with your hosting provider to ensure they don’t have a plugin or temporary page that would be preventing you from seeing the location or logging into a pre-installed wordpress site. reply arup says: may 23, 2019 at 11:36 pm well described. but i am not using any cpanel right now. what i supposed to do on that step. pls help. reply wpbeginner support says: may 24, 2019 at 10:14 am it would depend on what your host is using for the steps you need. reply chandranath shetty says: may 18, 2019 at 11:50 pm great article what if i wanted to keep the some artcile in old domain and move around 200 articles to new domain will 301 redirects are sufficient to pass the link juice reply wpbeginner support says: may 20, 2019 at 1:27 pm it will keep some of the seo, however, if you’re not transferring the entire site then you would lose any weight your domain added to your articles. reply corina says: may 16, 2019 at 11:41 am hi! thanks so much for your help and guidance. i’ve just written to the google search console community. corina reply corina says: may 14, 2019 at 6:51 pm i followed the steps you guys mentioned above and i got to step 5 – notify google. after verifying my new domain, i tried the change of address from my older one to the new one and i got stuck. when i go to the “change of address” page/ pick your new site from the list, it does not show me the new site. i clicked on “add it now” and it does show up on that page along with the older domain. yet, i cannot pick it from the list (it does not show no matter what i do). i verified the site several times with txt and via bluehost. reply wpbeginner support says: may 15, 2019 at 11:54 am you may want to check with google’s search console that you are the owner of both domains in the system as that can sometimes be the issue. reply corina says: may 15, 2019 at 2:18 pm hi! thanks for getting back to me. i am the owner of both domains. i checked for each domain in google search console/ settings/ownership verification. it says “you are a verified owner” for both of them. sorry, i’m not a technical person, so i don’t know what i don’t know and i’m at a loss. thanks so much for your help with this! corina reply wpbeginner support says: may 16, 2019 at 11:19 am sadly, you may need to reach out to the support forums for the google search console and let them know you’re domain is not a selectable option joei says: may 13, 2019 at 12:09 am hello, do you have tutorial how to make sub.mysite.com to newname.com without losing seo hope you reply i needed this tutorial. thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: may 13, 2019 at 2:08 pm you should be able to use the same method as in this article or follow the steps in our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-get-rid-of-wordpress-from-your-wordpress-site-url/ reply lee says: may 3, 2019 at 8:26 am is this the same process if i want to move only my all posts to a new domain? reply wpbeginner support says: may 3, 2019 at 10:58 am you could certainly follow this method and then remove everything that isn’t a post. another option would be to set up a new site then export only your posts under tools>export to import them on the new site using tools>import reply odidi junior meshach says: may 2, 2019 at 2:51 pm this article helped me alot brooo. i have bookmarked it. today was able to move my old domain to my new one thanks alot wp beginner ☺. reply wpbeginner support says: may 3, 2019 at 10:32 am you’re welcome, glad our guide could help reply eddie says: may 2, 2019 at 8:11 am hi, how about domain redirect from domain provider dashboard (namecheap as example)? i don’t want continue pay old hosting, because is expensive. reply wpbeginner support says: may 2, 2019 at 10:55 am you would want to reach out to your new hosting for their method to transfer the domain as each provider can have a slightly different method. reply leo says: apr 27, 2019 at 12:13 pm hello: i need to design a new wordpress site with a new theme. i want to do it in a subdomain while the original website keeps working. i have thought that when finished designing the whole site, migrating it to the main domain, overwriting the former site. is it possible? does this keeps the seo ranking of the original site? i’d be very grateful if somebody could answer. best reply wpbeginner support says: apr 29, 2019 at 1:01 pm you would want to check with your hosting provider for if they have an option for a staging environment to do what you’re wanting. depending on the changes you make it could affect your seo. reply raúl morales says: apr 12, 2019 at 1:58 am hi! thanks for this article. i followed the instructions with a test site and everything worked perfectly. but now that i’m trying to move my main site (7+ gb), duplicator shows error after error related to my hosting. i’m trying to move both to another host and another domain. any ideas on alternatives to duplicator? best reply wpbeginner support says: apr 12, 2019 at 11:17 am we do not have an alternative recommendation at the moment but if you reach out to the plugin’s support they may have a recommended workaround. reply fred says: apr 9, 2019 at 9:46 am moving all business under parent x to z x.com to z.com content from x into sub folder of z any particulars to be aware of? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 9, 2019 at 1:20 pm the plugin should handle moving the content to the correct url reply john says: apr 3, 2019 at 6:07 am hi, i am currently running a wordpress site which i built 4years ago. now my client wants to change the feel of the website. i just bought another theme for the for the new website. 1. how do i build the new website without disrupting the old site? 2. how do i easily switch the new site with the old site ? any answers reply wpbeginner support says: apr 3, 2019 at 11:14 am you may want to check if your hosting provider has built-in support for a staging site and if not you could create a local installation of your site with: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-move-live-wordpress-site-to-local-server/ then replace the current site when ready using: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-move-wordpress-from-local-server-to-live-site/ reply narendra says: mar 30, 2019 at 9:58 am hi! i only want to change hosting. while wanting to keep the same domain. for that we need to build the database on new hosting or upload the old one. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 1, 2019 at 11:58 am for how to move hosts, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-move-wordpress-to-a-new-host-or-server-with-no-downtime/ reply nourdin says: mar 22, 2019 at 5:48 am can i change my dmain name to be with www. with the same name the exisiting one does not have www but i am planinig to move it to be with www. both names has almost the same da, pa and moz rank. i am worry about the rankning in google? best regards nourdin reply wpbeginner support says: mar 22, 2019 at 10:26 am for www vs the non www alternative, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/www-vs-non-www-which-is-better-for-wordpress-seo/ reply eyad says: mar 18, 2019 at 3:06 pm i did this successfuly 2 years ago when i changed my business name and domain. as far as seo goes, do i still need to keep my old site hosted after 2 years? the old site is still redirecting to new site. please let me know, thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 1:50 pm after two years it normally becomes personal preference on if you should maintain the old site, it is not required. reply saweel ur raheem says: mar 18, 2019 at 10:49 am thank you for creating such an article. i have redirected my 1st website with 301 (permanent) to the 2nd website. its been almost 5 months and my second website isn’t at the same domain authority. why not all domain authority of my old domain has transferred to my new domain? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 1:39 pm there are too many possible reasons for a change in domain authority, it could be anything from a google algorithm change to any other factors. reply jimmy says: mar 16, 2019 at 6:36 am this is really an awesome guide. just a question. since the site is relatively new and not much traffic is coming, after the files have been moved to a new domain, instead of redirecting 301, can i just delete the old site? i really need your thoughts on this guys! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 12:51 pm if you’re not worried about traffic to the old domain, you could certainly do that reply eyad says: mar 14, 2019 at 5:03 pm i did this successfully two years ago because i changed business name and domain, but i have a question regarding my old domain (which is still redirecting to new domain). i did this to keep all seo from old site. should i still continue to keep my old site hosted? or is it safe, after two years, to remove hosting from old site. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 18, 2019 at 3:32 pm after 2 years it is normally safe to remove the old site completely. reply javed isaac says: feb 23, 2019 at 12:53 pm hi thanks for sharing this awsome guide. can i know you that how much it will take time to moving old domain to new domain url in google. and, i have da pa high of .com domain now i have move on .net some cause of issue. so my old domain da pa will move on new one i mean on .net.? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 25, 2019 at 3:14 pm for the change of address, if both domains are verified then it should take effect once you submit. following this guide will minimize the effect to your domain authority and page authority but no matter what, if you change your domain you will take a hit even if it is a small hit. reply kwabena okyire appianing says: feb 2, 2019 at 11:16 am i just want to know if i move the entire files from the old domain to the new domain, will it affect the site i did that with the cpanel move tool reply wpbeginner support says: feb 4, 2019 at 2:31 pm doing that you would have moved the files, you would want to ensure you update the urls for your site and in your site’s content as well as inform google of the move reply farukh hussain says: jan 20, 2019 at 9:49 am hello, thankx for helping my all life with each and every wordpress issue. i dont have words to thank for your all efforts to make our life easier with wordpress. i also just changed my domain name with your most helpful step by step guide. i am stuck at one point. to redirect my old urls to my new urls. do i need a hosting plan for the old domain?? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 22, 2019 at 4:18 pm if you use the method in the article you would want hosting for the old domain for some time. if you check with your hosting provider, some of them have methods to point the old domain to the new one. reply chris says: dec 30, 2018 at 5:08 am good day wpbegginer, thanks for this insightful article, i have one question though, am running a wordpress multisite with sub-directories and i wish to change the domain name of the multisite, my confusion is during the migration will my subdirectories be carried along and change to the new domain i.e (newdomain/subdiretory1) or do i need to add them manually all over again, thanks.. reply george says: nov 21, 2018 at 5:12 am i have completed all the steps to move the website to a new domain. the front end works fine: articiles, links, etc. the problem: when i try to do to admin dasboard or any link from admin, i get a blank page: http error 500 any solution? thanks! reply patrick alvarez says: nov 13, 2018 at 1:40 pm i’ve done a 301 redirect of an entire website from oldsite.com to newsite.com. can i know delete wordpress and all of the files on the old site? reply wpbeginner support says: nov 13, 2018 at 7:57 pm hi patrick, if you have setup redirects using .htaccess file on your old site, then yes you can backup your old wordpress files and then delete them. reply tan_veer says: sep 7, 2018 at 1:49 pm intaller.php is not opening after putting mynewdomain.com/installer.php, it’s showing 404 error. but i uploaded installer and package on new domain using ftp. i want to transfer existing domain to new domain on existing host and i register the new domain under my existing host as an addon domain. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 10, 2018 at 4:48 pm hi tanveer, try accessing installer with and without www in the url. reply david says: sep 3, 2018 at 7:49 am i want to move my blog to a new url, but on the same host, how can i go about that reply wpbeginner support says: sep 3, 2018 at 8:03 pm hi david, if you want to add a new domain name, then you will need to register the domain name and then add it to your hosting account. visit the cpanel dashboard and under domains sections you will find the option to add new domain. reply davies says: sep 3, 2018 at 9:36 pm i uninstalled the host under the old domain and installed it on a new domain and also imported the backup on the new domain, but am having issue redirecting the old domain to the new one, here are the domains and the new one (new) reply juan pablo silva says: aug 24, 2018 at 7:59 am hy.. i opened a new domain to improve my blog because i was using wordpress.com. now i want o ensure that all my post are automatically redirected to my new domain. i have a very successful post and i don’t want to lose my seo. its possible to do this in the same way??? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 26, 2018 at 2:10 am hi juan, please see our article on how to move from wordpress.com to wordpress.org. reply kiran bulbule says: aug 22, 2018 at 2:46 am your all tutorials are great. i almost learn full wordpress from webeginner. now, about this tutorial i think you should create a tutorial on all in one migration plugin it is very simple and easy. reply mike says: aug 17, 2018 at 8:41 am great article but needs to be updated. google sites changed a lot, especially webmasters, which is just a meta category for few other tools. there is no changing site adres as shown above or maybe it moved to non-findable location? also new tools are available so almost everything has changed… reply kunal kumar says: aug 1, 2018 at 7:44 am sir, i want to ask a question please see this first and answer me asap. i read your article/blog thats why i ask this question. i was using a domain and a wordpress site is running on it. last month in may2018 the mistake happen renewal of hosting is done but domain renewal was skipped. and now that domain become approx one lakh rupee domain, which is not in mu budget. so i think when it will skipped by godaddy after redemption period then i will purchase it. till then i purchased a new domain j”only s added”. and now i want my old site data and its seo all will come on this new domain. i repeat now i have no any access of old domain but i can access web hosting where my data is held so how i will migrate this or transfer old website data to new domain without loosing seo .please help reply wpbeginner support says: aug 2, 2018 at 7:38 pm hi kunal, you just need to point your new domain name to the folder where your old website files are stored. we are assuming you have added the new domain name on the same hosting account. go a head and edit your domain settings, contact your hosting provider for support. after that you will have to update urls in your new wordpress site. reply walter rios says: jul 8, 2018 at 5:06 am when simply changing domain name to current site, does any changes had to be made to nameservers? reply « 1 … 4 5 6 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.