skip to content menu home build your money making blog fast make money online get blog traffic business of blog build a money making blog fast how i make money with shopify posted on september 10, 2017october 30, 2017 by sam shopify is a powerful, powerful e-commerce platform. we all know that. but what most people don’t realize that’s it can also be used as a powerful blogging platform. sure, shopify’s blogging part is not as powerful as wordpress but if you do it right you can leverage it to make a ton of money. a few benefits of running a blog on shopify. 1. inbuilt powerful seo. yes, shopify has powerful inbuilt seo features. that will help you rank in google fast. 2. it’s easier to sell related products. when your blogging and e-commerce is one it’s super easy to integrate products with your content. 3. you can sell digital & physical products both. yes, you don’t need multiple platforms do that. shopify lets you sell anything you want. 4. make money with ads. apart from selling your products, like wordpress, you can make money by placing adsense or media.net ads on your site. 5.make money from amazon affiliate programme. there’re apps in the shopify app store that allows you to import products from amazon with just one click. now that i showed you how shopify can be your best bet when starting an online business, let me share how i make money from my shopify blog. 1. selling ebooks. i sell ebooks related fashion. i have 6 ebooks that i sell from $5 a pop to $20 a pop. 2. media.net ads. i have placed media.net ads all over my site. it’s a pretty good alternative to adsense. i am waiting for my adsense account to be approved for ages now. 3. promoting affiliate products. i use amazon affiliate and shopstyle collective to promote affiliate products. 4. dropshipping. yes, i sell cool dropship products. there are apps in the shopify app store that lets you do it in just a few click. ( there’s huge money to be made here) 5. pod. i make money by selling graphic tees and posters with the help of some awesome print on demand software. so, that’s how i make money from my shopify store. and trust me it’s super simple and anyone can do it. if you too want to start an online store+ blog with shopify. here’s a link to get 14 days free trial. share this: tweet like this: like loading... related tagged blogging, entrepreneur, make money online, shopify, success post navigation next post how to make passive income online in just days leave a reply cancel reply enter your comment here... fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: email (required) (address never made public) name (required) website you are commenting using your wordpress.com account. ( log out / change ) you are commenting using your google account. ( log out / change ) you are commenting using your twitter account. ( log out / change ) you are commenting using your facebook account. ( log out / change ) cancel connecting to %s notify me of new comments via email. notify me of new posts via email. ads subscribe now enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. subscribe recent posts 5 effective steps to a successful blog what to blog about? 3 strategies to traffic pulling blog which blogging platform should i choose (and how some bloggers trick you) 3 amazing tools to make you a better copywriter top secret strategies to grow your profits 100x search search for: business of blog can you really make money from your blog? and the answer is yes. you can really make money from blog. and wer’re here to help you do just that. we’re here to help you build a money making blog fast. categories categories select category copywriting facebook ads get blog traffic make money online shopify uncategorized links for you home build your money making blog fast make money online get blog traffic follow blog via email enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. join 164 other followers follow recent posts 5 effective steps to a successful blog what to blog about? 3 strategies to traffic pulling blog which blogging platform should i choose (and how some bloggers trick you) 3 amazing tools to make you a better copywriter top secret strategies to grow your profits 100x create a website or blog at wordpress.com post to cancel privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy %d bloggers like this: