start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events search start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events join our facebook community start here blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses events search how to start a blog posted by darren rowse 30th of march 2016 start a blog 0 comments last updated november 13, 2017 do you want to start a blog? if so – you’re in the right place. in this post i want to walk you through the basics of how to start a blog, and while i do, i want to answer some of the basic technical questions that many pre-bloggers need to answer to get their first blog up and running. there are many reasons to start a blog, but the challenge that faces all aspiring bloggers (including me back in 2002) is: how to start a blog? 5 easy steps there are a few simple steps that you will need to complete to start your blog: choose your blogging platform secure a domain name and get hosting in place with bluehost configure your blog design your blog start creating useful content that serves readers below i’ll walk you through how i’d approach each step if i were to start a blog and suggest further reading that will be helpful on other important questions like: choosing a niche, finding readers for your blog, building community with your blog, and thinking about how to make money from it, etc. my hope is that this step by step starting guide will help you to start your first blog. step 1: choose a blogging platform to start a blog you’ll need to select a blogging platform – or a tool that helps you to get your content up onto the web. there are many blogging platforms available but in my mind the choice is clear and simple. i would set up straight away on a wordpress.org site, and i highly recommend you do too. wordpress is by far the most popular blogging platform and for good reason – it is free to use (although you do need to make a small investment in a domain and a server – more on that below) it is easy to set up it has been around for many years and is a robust and secure system (although you do need to keep it up-to-date to maintain security) it has a whole industry of tool providers, designers and developers around it that will help you to customise your blog in many ways keep in mind that wordpress offer two tools: wordpress.com – where they host your blog, look after the back end, and give you access to have it on their own domain. it’s free to start but, you pay to upgrade different elements of it. wordpress.org – where you have complete control and host the blog on your own server, your own domain and have complete control over how it looks, operates and how you can monetise it. it is completely free to use but you need to arrange your own hosting, domain etc. wordpress.com is easier to set up and means you don’t need to keep upgrading versions of wordpress but it gives you less control over your design, how you monetise and what features you can add. wordpress.com is free to start with but depending upon what upgrades you want to get it can end up being just as expensive as wordpress.org. my recommendation is to go with wordpress.org – you’ll have a little more work in the setting up phase (i’ll walk you through it below) but in the long run you’ll have full control over the look, feel, features and monetization of your site. it could end up cheaper for you too! i know some of you are probably searching for advice on how to start a blog for free and so my advice to invest a little in a wordpress.org blog might not be exactly what you’re looking to hear because there are some small costs associated with it – but you’ll be better off in the long run and as you’ll see below the expense is not great. step 2: secure a domain name and set up your blog hosting i recommend using bluehost for getting both your domain and hosting set up. choose a domain for the next step of starting your blog you’ll need a domain name (your blog’s address) so that you have a home for your blog online. here on problogger my domain name is www.problogger.com – every blog needs its own domain, so it can be easier said than done to find one that isn’t taken! for the sake of this article i just want to talk about how to technically get your domain – but there are a few other factors to consider including: the human perspective – readability of your domain, the ease of it to say and remember, etc the brand perspective – uniqueness, what the domain says about you the seo perspective – choosing a domain with good keywords can help your site rank higher in google the legal perspective – copyright and trademark factors we cover all four of these areas in our post 4 things to consider when choosing your domain name. i would highly recommend reading that post before you go out and grab a domain. depending upon where you get your domain and which domain you choose, a domain isn’t a super-expensive thing to secure – but it will cost you at least a few dollars a year. set up your blog hosting with bluehost perhaps the simplest way to get your domain is to do so with the same place that you get your blog hosted. my recommendation for a good place to start is bluehost. wordpress has been recommending bluehost for blog hosting since 2005. with 1-click wordpress installation, 24/7 support, and a super affordable rate, bluehost is a great option for building your first website or blog. special offer for problogger readers: as i write this article, bluehost have an offer exclusive to problogger readers to get set up for just $2.95 usd per month (including a domain name!). this is a 63% saving. step 3: set up your blog if you’ve gone with bluehost as your domain and hosting provider, installing wordpress is super simple. in fact bluehost have created a simple video to show you exactly how to do it: if you have any trouble during this process, they have a live chat support system which enables you to ask questions of their support team. note: other hosts including inmotion have similar simple install systems for wordpress but if you run into trouble wordpress have an installing wordpress page too here. once you’ve completed this process, you now have a wordpress blog installed! you started a blog! congratulations – you’re almost there! step 4: configure and design your blog if this is your first experience of wordpress you might be looking at the dashboard and wondering what you’ve done by installing it – it feels overwhelming doesn’t it! don’t worry – you’ll pick this up in no time and just need a good walk through! configuring your blog luckily the team at bluehost have put together a great series of tutorials that will help you with becoming used to wordpress and also setting things up to make your blog look and operate just right. here’s a good video that introduces you to what you’re looking at on your wordpress dashboard. and here is another on creating categories and tags for your blog: one of the most powerful things in wordpress is that it allows you to install and use plugins to get extra functionality on your blog. you might want to save this one to watch later but it will help with making your blog more feature rich. designing your blog another thing you’ll want to do now is to think about your blog’s design. first impressions count for a lot so you’ll want one that says something about the type of brand you’re trying to create and that helps you stand out in the crowded blogosphere. bluehost have a video that shows you the basics of setting up and choosing a design theme but can i echo the advice in the video about investing in a ‘premium theme’ for your blog. while there are many thousands of free themes out there, this is an area that it can be well worth investing in. last time we surveyed problogger readers, we found that most problogger readers agree with this, and have premium themes as the basis of their blog designs. while they will cost you to buy, if you get one from a reputable source they’ll be secure, fast, have good search engine optimisation, will be designed for mobile as well as desktop, and be easy to install and customise. >> podcast: how to decide on a wordpress theme for your blog with graphic designer and developer kelly exeter the premium theme supplier that i have used over the years and highly recommend is studiopress (aff). i’ve used their themes in the early days of numerous blogs and love their design but also support. if you’re looking for a really easy solution, check out the new studiopress sites, a fully hosted, all-in-one wordpress website builder that will give you: the genesis framework – industry standard design framework that makes wordpress easier, without sacrificing power or flexibility 20 mobile-optimized html5 designs – sleek professional designs that provide beautiful frames for your content fast loading cloud performance – cloud infrastructure that’s optimized specifically for peak wordpress performance zero “hosting” hassles – with a fully hosted website that will grow with you and your website traffic one-click install of included plugins – never wonder which plugins are trustworthy, thanks to your studiopress site’s repository of one-click solutions for the functionality you desire. rock-solid security advanced seo functionality automatic plugin and theme maintenance – many wordpress site owners spend $$$ every month to have an outside service keep things updated and safe. world-class support – friendly support team standing by 24/7 to be honest – the design part of setting up a blog is the bit i find hardest. it is definitely possible to do it 100% yourself (and there are many tutorials around that will help you learn the skills to do it) but for 99.9% of new bloggers a theme that you tweak is the way to go. the other option if you’re super serious is to hire a designer to do a custom design for you. but that is likely to cost you some significant cash to get a reputable designer and so a them is probably the best place to start. don’t stress too much in the early days – we all start with a design that we later look back on and cringe a little at. the main thing is to get set up and evolve from there. my key tip is to choose a simple, classic and clean design that you can add a simple logo to to make it a bit more individual and then get on with blogging! step 5: start creating useful content that serves readers ok – hopefully by now you’ve got your domain, hosting, have installed wordpress and have your theme installed. you have started a blog… but you’re not a blogger until you start creating some content for your blog! i can’t really tell you what to write on your blog for your first post – because it is something that will vary a lot from blogger to blogger – but i’ll share some links below that might help give you some starting points. what i can point you to is a couple of helpful videos from our friends at bluehost again. there are two types of content that you are able to create for your blog in wordpress – ‘pages’ and ‘posts’. pages pages are the ‘static’ pages on your blog that won’t really change that much but which you’ll link to from your menus and navigation areas on your blog. for instance here on problogger my ‘about page’ and ‘speaking page’ are created using a ‘page’. your first page should probably be an ‘about page’ – a page which tells people about you and your blog. it’s a page you’ll want to show up in your navigation area/menu and is going to get quite a few people read it to understand what you’re about as a blogger. need help with your about page – check out our previous post on what to include in your about page? posts posts are a little different and what you’ll spend most of your time creating as a blogger – they’re where you create your regular blog posts. posts will appear on the front page of your blog once they’re published. they usually have comments and a date to show readers when it was published. let’s start by creating an ‘about page’. it’s easy to do – in fact if you know how to use a word processor like word then you should be ok! here’s exactly who to do that with our friends from bluehost: next it is time to write your first blog post. once again the content is going to vary a lot from blog to blog but how you get that post up onto your blog is a relatively simple process and one that you’re going to become a master at in no time! in fact you’re going to find this process very similar to creating a ‘page’ for your blog. here’s a last video from bluehost on creating ‘posts’. further reading on creating content for your blog there’s a great deal more that you could read about starting a blog but the process above should get you going. once you’ve worked through it here are a few other suggested articles to read to help you take your next steps. i would also highly recommend that you check out our guide to your first week of blogging ebook which is perfect for anyone who has just set up their blog to help them to think through some key challenges that face bloggers like how to come up with an editorial strategy, how to find readers and much more. it presents a series of 32 achievable tasks that will not only get your blog going but that will help you to develop the skills you need to achieve your potential as a blogger. also check out some of these articles and podcast episodes: what do i need to have ready before i launch my blog? 10 things i wish i knew about blogging when i started create an elevator pitch for your blog how to craft a blog post 21 common blogging mistakes how to make money blogging have you started a blog? if you’ve used this guide to start a blog i’d love to hear from you in comments below. feel free to let us know what blog you started and how you found using this guide including how we could improve it to make the processing of getting started easier. about darren rowse darren rowse is the founder and editor of problogger blog tips and digital photography school. learn more about him here and connect with him on twitter, facebook, google+ and linkedin. search i need help to... start a blog create content find readers build community make money blogging be productive understand technology get work international start a blog day class of 2020 07 feb 2020 how to quit your job and build an online business 16 jan 2020 4 reasons why you should start a blog in the new year 09 jan 2020 comments aniee qasim says: 03/31/2016 at 3:52 am i really liked your post and you this blog, thanks for the awesome blog darren rowse says: 03/31/2016 at 9:50 pm thanks for reading aniee adam says: 03/31/2016 at 6:37 pm great tips! in my opinion, the most important thing for blogging is to creat unique and attractive contet – for both – users and google. darren rowse says: 03/31/2016 at 9:50 pm thanks adam – definitely very important to be doing those things. james fineman says: 04/04/2016 at 10:16 am don’t forget to spend a little time to find some potential partners and friends online who are not direct competitors but who work in a similar niche. you can collaborate on content, count on getting am more shares and feel a little less “one day marketing”. buzzsumo is a good took for this. darren rowse says: 04/05/2016 at 7:55 am good tip james – probably one of those things to work on early after you’ve got the blog up and running for sure. dp says: 04/04/2016 at 11:23 am fantastic post! i found the step-by-step instructions and screenshots to be super helpful. i just made the big switch from wordpress.com to self-hosting this week. thanks so much! darren rowse says: 04/05/2016 at 7:54 am glad to hear that dp! that’s a smart move to get onto self hosting – congrats! pravin nath.k says: 04/05/2016 at 1:16 am hi darren, this is my first comment after reading your blog for long time. newbie bloggers always tend to blog at free blogging platforms such as blogspot or wordpress.com, once they move to wordpress, they will realize the power of wordpress, community, support and everything. nyaxoasi zikpi-dordor says: 04/05/2016 at 9:36 pm hi, i’ve read your write-up on content development and it’s quite impressive. i’m a blogger and i write on wide range of issues. but i ever since i completed a professional course in health and safety, i’ve resolved to focus on that subject. i’ve since published a few topics on my blog “from my lazy chair” http://theerudite1.blogspot.com and http://nzikpidordorblog.wordpress.com but i’ve noticed i’m not getting a lot of people visiting my blog. meanwhile, when i blog on issues having to do with politics, i do get an encouraging number of people visiting my blog. you may want to help me out with the development of the content in this regard. many thanks. nyaxoasi. harri cliff says: 04/05/2016 at 10:06 pm hi darren. you’ve been doing great and elevating my spirit about blogging which i would probably start this month ending-thanks alot. i want to know…which is the first step to start? will i first create my site on wordpress and then later go to bluehost to do the hosting? jason says: 04/06/2016 at 12:47 am thanks darren. what is your opinion of the blogger blogspot platform? i know the prevailing sentiment is negative, but i do know a few very successful people who swear by it. in fact, one in particular in the art community receives 60,000 plus views a month, while not even using their own domain on it. they use nothing but the themes that blogger provides, “quite well i made add”. it has made me re-think my opinion of the platform. unfortunately i have had a lot issues with host providers over the years, and more than a few headaches with wordpress and different themes. i don’t remember too many issues with google’s blogger, but i always felt i had to do the wordpress host and domain thing to be legit. darren rowse says: 05/05/2016 at 9:44 pm jason if i knew i was going to stick to blogging and give it a serious go i’d follow the approach outlined above and go with a hosted option like wordpress rather than start on blogspot. eduardo carvalho says: 04/06/2016 at 6:14 am thank you darren for this article. i have read and saved it for later. it is going to be really useful. just one thing though, the link to “inmotion hosting” is going to evernote. thank you again. darren rowse says: 05/05/2016 at 9:45 pm you’re welcome eduardo. dylan robertson says: 04/21/2016 at 11:21 am hi darren, i used wordpress since 2008 and am astounded by the dizzying array of possibilities that its ecosystem offers today. your only limit is your imagination. that said, i do question if it is the right choice for most bloggers. in my case, i found myself noodling around too much and fussing over tiny things all the time instead of investing in creating more quality content for my audience. by the time i paid for professional level hosting (wpengine), support services (wpcurve), custom design, and various premium parts (theme, plugins, and various saas), it really added up. i think that until very recently, going down that route was the only viable choice for a professional grade website or blog, but i don’t believe that is the case today. i’m currently in the process of moving my personal site to squarespace, and my various magazine style blogs to “medium for publishers.” i will lose a lot of freedom and options, but it’s a sacrifice that i’m willing to make in return for dropping the time and money i spend on tinkering with the platform to almost zero. i believe that the network effect of medium, and the other many features it has, will benefit me more than having my own stand alone blog. a number of substantial publishers agree and are making the move from wordpress to medium for this reason. that said, wordpress is still the best choice to anyone who does need full control over all aspects of their site. and, it is still insanely great value for money – the things you can do with it these days for a modest investment would have cost a fortune ten years ago. felicity keith says: 04/21/2016 at 8:27 pm i know how php, html,css … so it’s not difficult for me to set up a website, but my problem is content. english is not my native language, so i have to hire writers to write articles for me. results are always not satisfied. they usually don’t give me the article that i need. i have waste plenty of money on those crappy writers. zanna says: 04/30/2016 at 9:50 am hi, darren. i’m in the middle of this blog, which has been most valuable. the videos by dan are helpful as well. however, it appears the wordpress design has been revamped, so it was kind of hard to follow the video and navigate through my version of wordpress. of course, like he said, it’s good to experiment, which i did, but i just thought i’d let you know, so he can update them (if you know him, that is). mehran says: 05/16/2016 at 7:13 pm hello darren! i’ve had a couple of experiences in blogging. and now i’m planning on launching a new blog. i was writing about history back then and because it had some pretty content we got very good results. (it wasn’t that narrow too. it was about art, history and culture at the same time) but this time i’m starting all alone and history is my field of expertise. should i start with a history blog, or a blog generally about humanities? i really need some advise, because on the one hand it’s really not easy starting a history blog and expecting good traffic (i’m over thinking about traffic. because my previous experiences made me realise that a good content will attract readers eventually) and on the other hand, i’m not sure if i should have a blog that i can write series posts about politics and stuff like that along with history or i should just have history-focused blog. i would appreciate it if could give some advise on this and others, if the have any idea what i should do. kevin grames says: 05/30/2016 at 4:48 am great article darren. wordpress is such a powerful platform that goes well beyond just blogging. i have tried a few others over the years, but have always gone back to wordpress. it is hard to beat the community and development that it provides. it’s like going from a luxury car to a yugo when trying many other platforms. bradley m says: 06/01/2016 at 4:26 pm this was truly amazing. i’ve been trying to get motivated to blog since i was a junior in high school. it took until i ran into this post (after graduating with a bs degree) before i finally felt confident enough to just go for it. this step-by-step process using your own suggestions and dialogue combined with well placed videos by bluehost finally got me to start writing. i started last night and am scheduled to probably go live with my blog by this weekend. thank you. victor says: 06/02/2016 at 7:28 am thank you darren for this post. i am new to blogging and hopefully intend to monetize my blog in the nearest future. this was definitely a great intro to blogging. marek says: 06/02/2016 at 11:35 pm hello danny, thank you very much for this. but why would you choose wordpress over great platforms like tumblr or blogspot? ali jewel says: 09/01/2017 at 11:34 am i am blogging on blogspot. it’s good. at least without any security issues or plugin updates and hosting cost. julius santos says: 06/07/2016 at 10:13 am wonderful article! been blogging for quite some time now, although on and off, due to my dialysis treatment. had a sponsored site before – dialysis postings, but having problems with it and i cannot access the back end of the blog. set up another at wordpress.com free platform – wornkidneys.wordpress.com, simply because i cannot afford my own domain and hosting. but this doesn’t stop me from blogging and reading this article is still an eye opener for me. hope i could set up my own domain and hosting for worn kidneys someday. nayan kariya says: 06/08/2016 at 1:13 pm nice post on how to start a blog. i can say this is complete guide on how to start a blog. i recommend self-hosted wordpress to run a blog. because it provides much more features than wordpress.com. nice article. jesse says: 06/02/2017 at 4:54 am cool posts i am still getting good and wordpress. what really helped me was blogging from my phone and building pages. jesse says: 06/02/2017 at 4:55 am keep blogging and building pages and i got good at making pages still looking to go through this post, wished i would have read every post. jesse says: 06/02/2017 at 5:20 am whats up i made another post to help you along in the blogging world. april hamilton says: 06/23/2017 at 5:52 am thank you for this amazing article. i love your blog! question: if i’m going to monetize my blog, do i need to register it as a business in my state? i’m assuming obviously so, but wanted feedback on that. nasir says: 06/30/2017 at 4:24 pm wonderful article! mr. darren rowse, first of all i’m trying since 2002 as well but i had a good perience while using a forum it was free at that time and i had earned a few dollars via that free forum. but now, i’m planing to start blogging straight while searching for the required steps, i found your blog the more knowledgeble and interesting and it motivated me more to do the right thing straight away! thanks for the awesome stuff. :) justin says: 07/07/2017 at 10:35 pm great article… about wordpress. wordpress is popular cms platform for blog. satbeer singh says: 07/08/2017 at 7:01 pm thanks for posting such great article.wordpress helped me to build my blog.i liked your blog very much because you provided such detailed information. digitalevolutionsdubai says: 07/12/2017 at 10:00 pm for your business to prosper, for your organization to come up with the best outputs, for your product to be known worldwide, connect it to the internet. bring it beneath the thumbs of your target. develop a website with anything and everything about your company; upload your mobile app with all best features, in the playstore. “digitale” is here, with you, to help digitize your business, to provide the best promotion for your products and create the best online platform characterizing your organization. here we showcase our highly innovative works, subscribe & follow our inspirational ventures. contact us anywhere, anytime. karen lopez says: 08/11/2017 at 1:12 pm agreed. in the past years, setting up a blog is quite dificult and challenging to start. it really takes time and effort to get you through it. thanks for the guide, this makes blogging so simple and smart. well written! lucas smith says: 08/16/2017 at 2:10 pm it is indeed very important to take note that presentation plays a major role. in configuring and designing your blog, it would best to make it enticing and pleasing to the eye. people are very cautious nowadays when it comes to suspicious websites that don’t really look presentable. thank you for this very informative article! heri laregrage says: 09/06/2017 at 12:44 pm interesting articles, very useful for new bloggers like me. newsfortechie says: 09/23/2017 at 6:14 am i’m newbie blogger and i have question about it it’s easy to start a blog but how we maintained its journey i mean something that newbie like me getting inspiration to making a successful blog abdul majeed siddiqui says: 09/26/2017 at 1:25 am covered up everything. thanks darren once again. ramos reyes morin says: 10/17/2017 at 10:29 pm this is really a great guide :) btw can i ask if bluehost charges monthly? or annually? or you have to pay it all? some blogs say it’s monthly, some says it’s annual, and other says you have to pay it all. i’m just so confused and i can’t start my blog just because of that femi says: 10/31/2017 at 1:12 am they charged annually rahul singh says: 10/23/2017 at 12:45 am its a very nice & interested cortical. rube rai says: 11/01/2017 at 9:12 pm nice and interesting article. its very useful and helpful article meghan @ girlbizonline.com says: 11/10/2017 at 8:40 am really good points about choosing a domain name – i like the different perspectives. it makes a lot of sense! good article. club da dica says: 11/14/2017 at 4:57 pm we can be susscefull bloger without a especific nich ? i mean i create mine and i post about aleatories and give some tips for users, can i be a great blogger? harish kumar says: 11/29/2017 at 8:19 pm hi! i saw you succeeded in specific niche. congrats for your success and may i know your blog name? etlem says: 11/16/2017 at 11:39 pm clear and easy to understand. although i started my blog, i intent to use the information to improve it. harish kumar says: 11/29/2017 at 8:17 pm at last, i created my first blog based on the knowledge i learned from this article. i have read so many articles on other’s blog, but the information has more good thoughts and hence i started my business. thanks admin. rachael stone says: 12/20/2017 at 7:41 pm i have been trying to get a blog going for months now, i went the wordpress way and ended up confused and none the wiser, now i’m signed up with wix, but still need to know a lot more. i’m very pleased to have found pro blogger! subhash says: 12/28/2017 at 3:02 pm good article for beginners debashis das says: 01/03/2018 at 5:11 pm hi this is really nice blog. miss kepo says: 01/05/2018 at 12:49 pm great article, very usefull for me thank you darren pavanreddy sannala says: 01/10/2018 at 9:21 pm really nice article, thanks for sharing. i created my first blog based on the knowledge i learned from this article. bill west says: 01/17/2018 at 2:54 pm question: do i engage studiopress after i set up my blog on wordpress through bluehost or do i engage from the start, when i have only a domain? smartinfosite says: 02/09/2018 at 10:22 pm thank you for this awesome information. i’m new to blogging industry. your article is really useful for me join our newsletter website subscribe follow us i need help to... start a blog create content find readers build community make money blogging be productive understand technology get work every week we'll send you blogging advice, tips and in-depth tutorials join our community of 300,000+ bloggers! name name website subscribe recently at the job board email marketer - reach a big audience and make a positive impact expert tech blog writer finance or seo specialist writer wanted fitness & lifestyle bloggers wanted! [european] content writer for adult toy website problogger top articles how to start a blog how to create great blog content how to find readers for your blog 7 strategies to build community on your blog how to make money blogging 5 ways to make your blogging life easier top resources 31 days to build a better blog problogger’s guide to your first week of blogging problogger’s guide to blogging for your business blog wise: how to do more with less the blogger’s guide to online marketing recommended blogging resources about blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses speaking privacy terms contact copyright © 2020 problogger.com · all rights reserved a practical podcast… to help you build a better blog the problogger podcast a practical podcast…