wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how to fix wordpress feedburner feeds not updating how to fix wordpress feedburner feeds not updating last updated on june 17th, 2014 by editorial staff 38 shares share tweet share pin in the past we have shown you how to setup feedburner for your wordpress site. recently we had an issue here at wpbeginner where our feedburner feed was not updating. we published a post 8 hours ago, and our feed was still not updated. after some tinkering around and research, we managed to find several potential solutions. in this article, we will show you how to fix wordpress feedburner feeds not updating. update: we no longer recommend using feedburner because it’s a dying product full of bugs. please read this article to see why you shouldn’t use feedburner and find out about the alternatives. activate pingshot if you followed our step by step guide to setting up feedburner, then you should already have pingshot activated. if you haven’t, then you should try activating it. once you log into feedburner, select your feed and click on the publicize tab near the top of the dashboard. in the left column you will now see a button for “pingshot”. click on this and select “activate”. this will cause your feed to ping every time there is an update. some users suggested that this fixed the issue for them. since we already had this activated, it was not a solution for us. so we jumped into the troubleshootize tab in feedburner where it told us to ping our feed. ping your feed in the “troubleshootize” tab, click on the “pinging feedburner” link. this will bring you to a page where you can type in your blog’s url. press the “ping feedburner” button to update your feed immediately rather than waiting on feedburner’s automatic update that happens every 30 minutes. we tried doing that, but it did not work. it returned error saying invalid address. again in forums, folks suggested that this worked for them. but as you can see with our reaction, it did not work for us. as we scrolled down the list of troubleshooting options, there was the option to resync your feed. resync your feed on the troubleshootize page if you scroll down to the bottom, you will find a button labeled “resync now”. clicking on it will clear feedburner’s cache and refill it with your new content. we clicked on that button and “woot” it was fixed. our new content was now appearing on the feed, but why should we have to do this every time? there should be a solution that would fix the issue permanently. after doing a bit more research, we found that this issue was being caused by caching plugin. we did a quick research and found several users having this issue while using w3 total cache. frederick townes, developer of this plugin, had also suggested a fix for these. not caching feeds as a matter of last resort, if you have a caching plugin like w3 total cache or wp-supercache installed then you may have to clear the cache from your admin panel or simply disable caching the feeds. although this is written for w3 total cache, a similar method will work for other plugins. go to “performance” in the left hand column. under that there should be an option for “page cache”. click on it and then uncheck the box that reads “cache feeds: site, categories, tags, comments”. this will prevent your plugin’s cache from backing up and not allowing feedburner to display new content. also note that feedburner will not process an original feed over 512kb. if you find yourself into this problem a lot (or notice the solutions in this article aren’t working), reduce the number of posts displayed in your wordpress feeds by going to settings &raquo reading page. now you have the way to fix wordpress feedburner feeds not updating. did these methods worked for you? or did you try something else that worked? do let us know in the comments. 38 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 27 commentsleave a reply jo-anna says: mar 12, 2018 at 6:24 pm thank you for this! my cacheing plug in was the culprit…i never even thought of that, so thank you! reply editorial staff says: mar 13, 2018 at 4:16 am you’re welcome jo-anna. glad you were able to get this sorted. reply praneeth says: mar 26, 2016 at 9:31 am the issue was not fixed. i still have the problem. please help me with this. reply tanmoy das says: nov 21, 2015 at 12:51 am i have unchecked cache feeds but still getting error when i am checking my feed in feed validator. what to do? reply mohammed saimon says: may 8, 2014 at 8:32 am i am also facing the same problem. now done everything what you have mentioned here. let see what happen. reply raj says: dec 18, 2013 at 10:24 pm followed all your steps but didn’t work either of them. disabled w3 total cache plugin hurrrr feedburner update to all latest post. reply sureyea says: sep 6, 2013 at 10:30 am i have deactivated w3tc and now it worked. i dont know how this happens. you have posted article on configuring w3tc but i need a detailed article on configuring w3tc. w3tc confilcting many things. by the way thanks for this post syed reply sureyea says: sep 6, 2013 at 10:12 am activated pingshot, pinged feedburener, tried resync now option and i use w3tc and haven’t checked cache feeds option and everything is setted prerfectly by still latest posts not showing in feeds. it takes a day ! anyone help me plz reply juan says: jul 19, 2013 at 8:12 pm i also spend hours looking to solve the same problem. i try to disable the feed option on w3tc but don’t works and then i disable the plugin w3tc and works, the last posts appear on my feedburner. thank you for this post… reply h. major says: mar 2, 2013 at 5:56 pm thank you. i use quick cache and had to go to “client-side cache” and change browser cache to false. then, i resynced (on feedburner) and the @##%^ feed *finally* displayed my latest post. i really appreciate it. reply scott bowser says: sep 28, 2012 at 5:09 am i’m a podcaster using feedburner on a wordpress site to publish my feed to itunes. how do i update the feed to make new episodes show up? i was with a podcast network that was hand coding my feed but now i’m doing it myself. i have several episodes that i need to get up but they aren’t showing. thank you. very helpful post. reply editorial staff says: sep 28, 2012 at 9:22 am not sure how the podcasting part works. do you have the resync option like we showed in the article above? reply mary beth says: sep 21, 2012 at 8:30 am do you know anything about feedburner feeds dropping to zero overnight last night? reply editorial staff says: sep 21, 2012 at 9:13 am feedburner tends to do that due to glitches. reply m asif rahman says: aug 26, 2012 at 1:41 pm thanks for insightful and detailed article as always. good luck to you syed. reply chad warner says: aug 17, 2012 at 9:26 am thanks! pinging feedburner fixed it for me. reply cliffweathers says: mar 25, 2012 at 7:21 am this was a big help. i never would have guessed that w3 total cache was the culprit. of course, now it makes sense. i never quite understood the need for caching feeds anyway. aren’t they the last thing that you’d want to cache? reply daclements says: jan 17, 2012 at 1:58 pm @wpmods ahh yes. i remember turning off caching for feeds. that’s why i didn’t have this problem reply wpmods says: jan 17, 2012 at 5:45 pm @daclements it’s all good now. w3cache is a great plugin but if you don’t have the settings right it can really mess things up. reply daclements says: jan 17, 2012 at 6:09 pm @wpmods it sure can. works pretty good out of the box, but a single wrong setting can throw things off (as with anything i suppose) reply soquinn says: oct 13, 2011 at 8:17 am for me, feeds are updating but it seems that feedburner is randomly sending out older posts? not sure if that is because it’s not finding a new post each day so it’s grabbing old ones instead? the site’s wp feed is correctly displayed by post date. reply andrewrondeau says: oct 6, 2011 at 9:34 am just had the same problem. now fixed – thanks to your easy to follow solutions. andrew reply carma leichty says: sep 23, 2011 at 3:41 pm very helpful article! i needed this about 3 months ago when my feedburner stopped working. i did the exact steps you mention above. i will bookmark this for future reference. thanks! reply zgoehner says: sep 20, 2011 at 12:58 pm also note that feedburner will not process an original feed over 512kb. if you find yourself into this problem a lot (or notice the solutions in this article aren’t working), reduce the number of posts displayed in your wp feeds. reply wpbeginner says: sep 20, 2011 at 1:00 pm @zgoehner very true. added it in the article. reply jongalloway says: jan 8, 2012 at 2:30 am @zgoehner i wanted another option – other than just reducing the number of posts or switching to summaries – so i wrote a little plugin that shows full text for recent posts (50, configurable) and summary for old posts. might help people out – i wished there was something like that when i kept running into this problem. it’s called excerpt old posts: http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/excerpt-old-posts/ reply sanyam jain says: jan 1, 2013 at 1:58 am nothing of the above worked but ur tip of reducing the number of posts worked like charm…. thnx … reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) mojo marketplace coupon get 15% off on mojo marketplace wordpress themes, plugins and services. beaver builder coupon get the best possible price on this easy drag-and-drop page builder plugin. from just $99 in 2020. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.