menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: mustaches, shaving, style & grooming, visual guides brett • march 1, 2019 last updated: december 29, 2019 how to grow a handlebar mustache so you want to grow a mustache. but not just any mustache. you’re going for the classic handlebar. here’s how to do it. step 1: grow a mustache and don’t trim it. don’t trim it! no matter how tempting it is, don’t trim your mustache. ever. step 2: comb it when your mustache is long enough to comb, comb it once a day and create a part by combing the hair out from under the nose to the left and to the right respectively. this will train your ‘stache to grow out in the traditional handlebar fashion. a simple tweezerman comb will do the trick. if you want to get fancy, go with a wooden mustache comb handmade by actor nick offerman, aka ron swanson. step 3: wax it after you get out of the shower, leave your mustache damp. starting in the middle of your lip, apply a small dab of mustache wax with your fingertip to the upper edge and use a comb to spread it down through the hair. work your way out to each end, applying more wax as needed. if your mustache is wiry, use more wax. many handlebar owners suggest clubman mustache wax. step 4: twist and shape it to add that distinctive handlebar curl, apply some wax to the ends and twist the hairs together with your fingers. then curl the twisted hair up and in. you can also create a curl by winding the ends as tightly as possible around a writing pen. step 5: maintain it owning a handlebar mustache is a commitment. you have to wash it, comb it, wax it, and curl it every day. but when the day arrives you have to take part in a bare-knuckle boxing match, the investment will be well worth it. after you’ve grown your handlebar mustache, you might consider petitioning the illustrious handlebar mustache club for membership: like this mustache content? check out these resources: how to grow a mustache how to trim a mustache: illustrated guide mustache style guide manliest mustaches of all-time mustache archives like this illustrated guide? then you’re going to love our book the illustrated art of manliness! pick up a copy on amazon. illustrations by ted slampyak special thanks to aom reader and handlebar mustache owner, eric stolzmann for a handlebar growing consult. never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// how to clean your entire house in 30 minutes cool uncle tricks: make a salt shaker disappear beard grooming 101: the lowdown on products and routine 10 things your father should have taught you about style view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy