skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer the wonder of tech making personal technology user-friendly for you! home about archives social media contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! you are here: home / wearables / how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr / march 9, 2020 how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center if you have an apple watch, you probably use it to track your exercise, measure your heart rate, get notifications, read text messages, see who’s calling you, and so much more. but to make the best use of your apple watch, you should check out the handy tools in control center on your watch. control center on the apple watch is similar to control center on your iphone in that it is easy to access and loaded with helpful shortcuts to handy tools. just one swipe of your watch face and you’ll instantly see tools that make your watch even more useful. these tools are so handy that once you start using them, you may be using control center on your watch every day. => also see 13 super shortcuts for your iphone – in control center how to open and close control center on the apple watch to open control center on your apple watch, swipe up from the bottom on the home screen. swipe or scroll down to see all of the tools in control center. if you have a different screen open on your watch, such as the app screen or dock, press the digital crown to return to the watch face, then swipe up from the bottom to open control center. to close control center, either swipe down from the top of the screen or press the digital crown. 13 tools in control center on the apple watch these tools in control center can make your life easier and are simple to use: ping your phone — tap the ping icon to play a sound on your iphone. when you ping your phone from your apple watch, your phone will play a sound for a few seconds to help you locate it. press and hold the ping icon to have your phone flash its light, to help you find your phone in the dark. flashlight — if you use your phone as a flashlight, you’ll be delighted to learn you can also use your apple watch as a flashlight. tap the flashlight icon in control center to turn your watch screen into a white light. tap the screen to make the light brighter. swipe to the left for a flashing light or a red light. press the digital crown or side button, or swipe down from the top of the screen, to turn off the flashlight. disconnect from wi-fi — tap this icon to disconnect your watch from the wi-fi network. (the apple watch automatically connects to the same wi-fi network your phone is connected to.) tapping this icon will disconnect your watch, but not your iphone, from the wi-fi network. tap it again to reconnect your watch to wi-fi. disconnect from cellular — if you have an apple watch that connects to a cellular network, you will see this icon in control center on your watch. tap it to disconnect from the cellular network. tap it again to reconnect. apple watch battery charge — this icon tells you the battery charge remaining on your apple watch. silent mode — tired of your apple watch making noises? quickly silence your watch by tapping the bell icon in control center. lock with a passcode — if you skipped the step of adding a passcode when you first set up your watch, you can add a passcode by tapping the lock icon in control center. turn on do not disturb — like your iphone, your apple watch has the do not disturb feature to silence your watch. when you tap this moon icon, you are shown options for how long you would like do not disturb to remain turned on. turn off do not disturb by tapping the moon icon again. => don’t miss how to schedule “do not disturb” to turn off when you leave a location walkie talkie — call a contact using the walkie talkie feature on your watch. theater mode — tap the masks icon to turn on theater mode that keeps your watch screen dark and your watch silent. the first time you turn on theater mode, you’ll see a notice explaining theater mode and a button to confirm you’d like to turn on theater mode. turn on water lock — going for a swim? turn on water lock to lock the screen of your phone to avoid accidental taps. turn the digital crown to turn off water lock and expel water from the speakers on your watch. note that water lock is only available on apple watch 2 and later models. turn on airplane mode — tap the airplane icon to disconnect your apple watch from bluetooth, and wi-fi and cellular networks. audio output — tap this icon to choose where the sound from your apple watch will play. when you tap this icon, you’ll see a screen showing the options of where the sound from your watch will play. this tool is handy if you’ve downloaded a playlist or audiobook to your watch to listen to when you’re away from your iphone. customizing control center on the apple watch after you’ve used control center for a while you may find you have favorite tools you use more often than others. you can customize control center to make it work better for you by moving the most used icons to the top. to customize control center, open control center on your watch, then scroll down to the bottom and tap the edit button. the tool icons will start to shake. drag and drop the icons in the order you wish them to appear in control center. tap done at the bottom of the screen when you have finished arranging the icons. your thoughts do you use control center on your apple watch? which tools do you use most often? have you customized control center on your watch? share your thoughts in the comments section below! tweet share3 share pin email 3 shares related filed under: wearables tagged with: handy tips, wearables subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: reader interactions comments suchot sunday says march 9, 2020 at 1:06 pm i do use my phone as a flashlight, especially if i need something in my preschooler’s room while she is sleeping! the watch flashlight would be even handier. reply carolyn nicander mohr says march 25, 2020 at 5:26 am hi suchot, yes, having a flashlight on the apple watch is incredibly handy. i use it frequently to navigate in the dark.you might even find that you use it more than the flashlight on your phone. carolyn nicander mohr recently published this awesome post..google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources reply rajkumar says march 11, 2020 at 6:16 am thank you for the useful information..recently i have purchased apple watch this article really helped me to understand the process and technology… reply carolyn nicander mohr says march 25, 2020 at 4:58 am hi rajkumar, i’m so glad this article was helpful to you. if you’re new to apple watch, you might not know about control center and how helpful it can be. i hope you find the tools there useful, rajkumar. carolyn nicander mohr recently published this awesome post..google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website twitter (@username) notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. you must enable javascript to be able to comment this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar carolyn nicander mohr subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: search the wonder of tech! search this website recent posts google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources 12 ways tech can help with social distancing how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center 3 ways to avoid social distance in the age of technology redbox launches free live tv, no subscription needed recent comments carolyn nicander mohr on google maps celebrates 15 years with new features! carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing popular posts chirp – a new place to get deals on audiobooks how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center google maps adds enhanced guidance for people with impaired vision (and everyone else) survey shows how wearables can improve lives [infographic] the many reasons why you may want apple carplay in your next (or current) car subscribe to the wonder of tech rss feed wonder of tech rss feed like the wonder of tech on facebook like the wonder of tech on facebook! triberr atomic tribe subscribe to the wonder of tech on feedly! subscribe on the kindle! the wonder of tech kindle subscription by subscribing to the wonder of tech on the kindle, you can have new articles automatically downloaded as soon as they're published! privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy categories categories select category android apps breaking news cameras cars cell phones cell phones cloud computers ebooks education ereaders featured fitness gaming devices internet ipad ipad iphone iphone mac movies music personal technology personal technology photography robots shopping social media tablets television triberr uncategorized wearables websites windows subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: footer subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: let’s connect! facebook flickr google+ linkedin pinterest rss twitter youtube home about archives social media policies privacy policy comment policy guest post policy review policy thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! tags 3d amazon android apple apps at&t cloud education email facebook fitness fun videos gaming gifts google gps handy tips hulu+ internet radio ipad iphone itunes kindle movies music netflix nintendo nook parenting photography pinterest poll roku sd cards security shopping slingbox tablets texts travel twitter verizon virgin mobile wearables youtube copyright © 2020 · digital pro on genesis framework · wordpress · log in home about archives social media policies thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here!