home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library latest articles travel prevnext how to make annual travel insurance more cost-efficient leyla preston wed 17th jan 2018 4shares share tweet pin it makes sense for families who are frequent travellers to purchase annual travel insurance. this type of insurance is ideal for travellers who undertake several trips over a period of 12 months. there are a range of insurance options that you can take out which provides coverage for 365 days. choosing a multi-trip annual plan is more cost-effective and convenient especially if you and your family travel more than once within a year. here are some of the benefits of taking out annual travel insurance and what makes it so cost-efficient: table of contents if you take out the 45-day annual multi-trip coverage, you get free winter sports cover for 17 days. for people ages 65 and above, you can have individual trip durations that last up to 120 days at a time. couples are offered discounts, and if there are children under 17 years old, they get free coverage. there are no hidden costs and there are low excess levels. 24-hour emergency assistance is also available. cruise cover is included as standard. you will always be covered for the next twelve months no matter how many holidays you take within the period. if you take out the 45-day annual multi-trip coverage, you get free winter sports cover for 17 days. many insurance companies offer annual trip coverage where the duration of each stay can last up to 45 days. on top of this, they also offer free winter sports cover if you plan to go cross-country skiing or snowboarding. the free winter sports coverage may last up to 17 days. for people ages 65 and above, you can have individual trip durations that last up to 120 days at a time. the older you get, the harder it is to get good coverage. however, the best travel insurance companies offer trip durations up to 120 days at a time if the insured is 65 years old and above. couples are offered discounts, and if there are children under 17 years old, they get free coverage. families and couples can access a special annual travel insurance package that has great discounts. the whole family is protected as children are covered at no additional cost. there are no hidden costs and there are low excess levels. 24-hour emergency assistance is also available. once the insured pays the premium, they will not be charged with any other costs. having low excess levels mean that the amount that you agree to pay once you make the claim on the policy will not be high. another valuable perk is that 24-hour emergency assistance is available to you. this is especially useful in foreign countries where the costs of emergency assistance are prohibitive. cruise cover is included as standard. if you are going on a cruise, you will also get coverage during the duration of the trip, whether you are on-board or your ship is docked in a port of call. this is important since a cruise has multiple legs. you will always be covered for the next twelve months no matter how many holidays you take within the period. as long as your 12-month period has not lapsed, you can take as many holidays or business trips as you want and you will be covered for each of your trips. these are just some of the benefits of taking out annual travel insurance. it is more practical to have this kind of insurance because it will save regular travellers a lot of money. there is travel insurance available that provides multi-trip annual coverage, so there is less worry whenever you travel, whether for business or for pleasure. *collaborative feature post* never miss a new post! don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:familiesholidaysaving moneytravel insurance related posts looking after your money after christmas 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... win £250 just by sharing your favourite ... ghostly cork teach your kids to save and manage their... how much does a wedding truly cost? ways you can save money on flight ticket... family car repairs that you can do yours... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sici... 10 reasons why you should rent an rv thi... how to shop smart and save online with h... top five family holiday destinations to ... how to make your rental business run smo... financial planning tips for new parents 9 reasons why you should visit the antar... so you think you know the uk? share it a... 7 reasons why you should take the family... planning a child’s birthday party on a b... top five tips for spreading the cost of ... ten half-term activities you can do on a... brantano clarks ballerina shoes – ... top 6 things to do with the kids this ha... top 3 great things i want to do with the... why we decided to use an airport car par... how much does it cost eat like an olympi... 5 reasons to take the kids to mauritius ... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... how you can use matched betting to save ... the best holiday destinations for new pa... fun things to do with the kids over wint... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 4shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok