menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: manly skills, tactical skills brett & kate mckay • june 2, 2017 last updated: february 26, 2019 how to make an improvised gas mask last week i took part in the goruck constellation here in tulsa. unlike the goruck challenge with its hefting of heavy logs and doing lots of push-ups and squats, constellation is a scenario-based event in which you learn urban survival skills and the techniques of escape and evasion from former u.s. military special operators. the emphasis is on skill acquisition instead of beating you down. i had a great time and learned a lot during the event. one of the most interesting skills i learned was how to make an improvised gas mask from a 2-liter bottle and dust mask in the event tear gas or pepper spray is being used during civil unrest. after making it, we actually had to put it to the test by getting pepper sprayed in the face by our cadres. and it worked. at least for me. some folks still got some spray in their eyes. it looked really unpleasant. when creating an apparatus like this, you’ve got to be sure you put it together just right! i thought it was fun skill to have and it could actually come in handy one day. so below i walk you through how to make an improvised gas mask in under 10 minutes. now is this thing anywhere close to a perfect gas mask? far from it. but if you ever need it, it’s better than nothing. how to make an improvised gas mask gas masks work by intaking “polluted” air through the “snout” of the mask, and then allowing that gas to pass through a filter before you inhale it. professional gas masks have filters that can absorb and neutralize very fine particulate. this jerry-rigged version is only designed to protect your eyes, mouth, and nose, while creating a physical barrier between larger particles in the air and your face. it’s obviously not going to protect you from truly toxic chemicals. materials 2-liter soda bottle dust mask duct tape knife 1. cut off the bottom of the 2-liter bottle at the bottom of the bottle, you’ll find a seam. using your knife, cut along the seam until you completely cut off the bottom of the bottle. 2. cut a u-shape on the side of the bottle remember to remove the plastic label that surrounds the bottle. some of it will still be left on the bottle after you’ve taken it off. cut your u-shape so it removes that remaining label. the u’s bottom should be about 2 inches above the bottle cap. the width of your u should be just large enough to fit your face into it. you don’t want to make it too big, as that would allow gas or pepper spray to enter your mask more easily. 3. remove bands from dust mask grab your dust mask and remove the bands from it. put them in a safe place; we’ll be using them here in a bit. 4. place dust mask inside the bottom of the u place your mask inside the bottom of the u-shape you just cut. you want the mask to tilt a bit downwards towards the bottle cap. as you see, this creates a small chamber between the bottle cap and the mask. 5. duct tape mask to bottle get your duct tape and secure the mask to the bottle. you want to make sure you have a solid seal around the mask area and no gaps where bad air can sneak in. err on the side of too much duct tape. another view of the taped dust mask. 6. duct tape the edges of your mask you’ll likely have some jagged edges where you’ve cut the bottle. to make the mask a bit more comfortable, place some duct tape along those edges. the added benefit of the duct taped edges is that it allows you to get a better seal around your face — which is crucial in its effectiveness. 7. cut four slits near the sides we need to cut some slits into which to place our mask’s bands. cut two slits near the top of the mask — one on each side — and another two four inches below — again, one on each side. 8. thread bands through slits and tie off thread your bands through the slits. start from inside the bottle and thread out. tie off the ends with an overhand knot so they don’t come out. 9. duct tape the slits to prevent air from entering your mask and as added security for your bands, place some duct tape over the slits. 10. punch some holes in the bottle cap use your knife and punch a few holes or slits into your bottle cap. this will allow you get a bit of air when you have the gas mask on. based on my experience from constellation, the slits weren’t enough to get adequate air intake. i’d recommend cutting a small square to let in a bit more air. cap screwed back on after slitting holes. you’re ready to face a post-apocalyptic world there you go. how to make an improvised gas mask in under 10 minutes. now you’re ready to face a cormac mccarthy-esque post-apocalyptic world in which the fabric of society is torn apart and all hell has broken loose. thanks to the cadre mickey for showing me how to make this bad boy. related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// kid craft of the week: pencil catapult 10 tips for tackling your first major diy automotive repair cool uncle tricks: make a salt shaker disappear how to make a ladder from tubular webbing view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy