news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold time to fire up the browser version of tinder. by josiah motley march 26, 2020 image: knowtechie like many of you (right? right???), i occasionally hop on tinder to check out local singles in my area. you’ve also surely noticed that tinder likes to dangle the fact that it knows who likes you in front of your face by showing you extremely blurred photos of people who have swiped right on you. it does this in an effort to sell you tinder gold, an expensive premium subscription that lets you get around tinder’s initial selling-point – not knowing who has liked you until you liked them back. tinder gold removes that stipulation and lets you see that off jump. the blurred images it provides are the figurative carrot on the stick. image: knowtechie but, if you refuse to cough up the money for tinder gold, there is a nifty little trick you can use to see the most recent ten people that have swiped right on you. how to see who likes you on tinder without tinder gold due to the sensitive nature of this type of how-to, images will be at a minimum, but if you follow the step-by-step guide, you’ll be good to go. first things first, open tinder on a web browser (we recommend google chrome) you’ll see potential matches on the left side of your screen the top left spot should show a blurred image and text that says something like “x likes” click on that and you should see a list of up to 10 people that have swiped right on you now it’s time to bust out your elite hacking skills ™ right-click on one of the images and click inspect down at the bottom image: knowtechie once you have that open you’ll see a bunch of nerd stuff (code), look for the styles section about half-way down in that section, type out the world filter in the search box you’ll see some text that says filter: blur(12px) image: knowtechie change that 12px text to 1px that’s it! you’re done, now you can see the people who like you without having to drop some serious cash on a tinder gold subscription. yes, there is still going to be a bit of a blur, but from our testing, it is still very easy to make out the profile picture. what do you think? plan on using this simple tinder trick? let us know down below in the comments or carry the discussion over to our twitter or facebook. editors’ recommendations: instagram’s new co-watching feature lets you browse posts with friends – here’s how to use it how to change your zoom background on desktop and mobile google translate’s real-time transcription feature is now live for android – here’s how to use it how to turn on dark mode for facebook on desktop related topicshow-totindertinder gold josiah motley managing editor with a focus on all things tech and gaming. life adventurer. i only tweet about kevin and curtis @josiah_motley comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in how-to instagram’s new co-watching feature lets you browse posts with friends – here’s how to use it the feature is now rolling out to users everywhere. how to change your zoom background on desktop and mobile spice up your next meeting with a new background. how to enable alexa devices to play radio stations alexa gets even more useful. how to join a zoom meeting directly from your web browser of course, zoom tries to hide the feature. google translate’s real-time transcription feature is now live for android – here’s how to use it this could prove extremely helpful. how to turn on dark mode for facebook on desktop dark mode is nice, but the new layout is "meh" at best. the easiest way to upload photos to instagram from a mac i wish i had discovered this ages ago. twitter now lets you turn lists into multiple timelines – here’s how to use it take back control of your twitter feed. instagram’s new co-watching feature lets you browse posts with friends – here’s how to use it home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie