start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques advertising advertising productivity smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart dr brady salcido dr brady is a doctor, podcast host, and brain optimization expert sharing how you can use your lifestyle to upgrade your life. read full profile share pin it tweet share email journaling is a powerful tool that can help sharpen your brain and mind so that you can become more successful, think more clearly, and reach your goals. journaling is one of the top strategies that contribute to many entrepreneurs and high achievers’ success inside and outside the workplace. maybe you’re unsure of how to get started with the habit of journaling, or maybe you’re looking for journal ideas to sharpen your brain to maximize your productivity and happiness. if you need journal inspiration, this article is for you. in this article, we’ll look at the top 15 journal ideas you can use to sharpen your brain: 1. set a structure for your journal if the idea of opening a blank journal and trying to figure out what to write for the day seems daunting to you, then have no fear. one of the simplest ideas to avoid having to think about what to write about in your journal is to create a structure that works well for you. first, think about what your goal is with journaling. is it to increase your productivity? be more creative? de-stress? knowing the reason why you are journaling will help you create a structure for your own journal. you can create a list of questions that you want to answer every day or action steps. for example, you may structure your journal like this: what am i grateful for today? (give 5 meaningful examples) what are the top 3 tasks i need to accomplish today? what goals am i currently working towards? how do i want to better myself today? get inspiration from other people who journal and start implementing the structure that works best for you. having a set structure that you use every day can make journaling more effective and easier to stick with. 2. use to-do lists to hack your dopamine many people use journaling as a way to manage their tasks and to-do lists. one brain hacking strategy is to cross out your accomplished tasks with red ink. it may seem silly, but when your brain recognizes the bright red ink crossing out a task that has been performed, it helps stimulate a release of dopamine, your reward and motivation neurotransmitter. dopamine is what allows you to feel the reward of accomplishing a task, but it also will help increase your motivation, which can help you become more productive, focused, and motivated to continue journaling. 3. write just one sentence (seriously) for some, the idea of having to sit down for more than 5 minutes and write a long entry every single time can make journaling feel more like homework than a helpful habit. advertising there are no rules or requirements for journaling. you don’t need at least 500 words with an introduction, body, and conclusion. if you want, you could even do as little as just one sentence. maybe it’s a busy day and you simply don’t have the time you usually do to sit down and journal. writing just a sentence or two can help your brain continue the habit of journaling so that it can stick. it can also take some pressure off of you from feeling like you have to write more, just because that’s what you are “supposed” to do. also allowing yourself to write less forces your brain to hone into what’s important. if you only have a few sentences to write, most likely you won’t write about what you want to have for lunch, you’ll focus on what’s truly important at that moment. 4. end your entry with your top goals (day, month, lifetime) a great idea for seamlessly transitioning from journaling to starting your day is to end your journal entry with your top goals or tasks. typically, you’ll write out your current goals for the day ahead, whether they be for work, diet, or fitness. this helps to prime your brain to look forward to the day ahead. you can also include your bigger goals for the month, year, or even for your life. by writing your goals down on regular basis, it helps orient your brain and your decisions toward the direction of your goals. it’s the steady reminder of what you are working towards so that you can achieve it as quickly as possible. need a little help in how to set goals? this article can help: how to set smart goal to make lasting changes in life 5. end your day with journaling many first-timers to journaling are under the impression that you need to journal first thing in the morning. although journaling first thing in the morning is great, it is not necessary. many people choose to journal in the evening as a way to decompress from the day and set the tone for the next day. journaling at night also can help you de-stress and write down anything that may be bothering from earlier that day, so that you can get it off your mind, onto paper, and be able to get good sleep. 6. practice gratitude studies show that practicing gratitude actually helps your brain become better. practicing gratitude helps activate your hypothalamus, which is part of your limbic system, to help you better regulate your emotions, behaviors, and even improve motivation.[1] practicing gratitude first thing in the morning helps your brain gain a positive perspective to start the day. it helps your brain look for the good in the day, rather than only preparing for the worst. this idea is incredibly simple to implement. just write down 3-5 things that you are grateful for. you can express gratitude for people, experiences, circumstances, events, or blessings that you may be thankful for. advertising the more gratitude you can feel the better, which means you want to try and come up with responses that truly resonate with you (the recent job promotion that allows you and your spouse to travel more) instead of finding generic reasons (food, water, shelter). although you may be grateful for those things, they may not resonate as deeply. learn more about starting a gratitude journal: how a gratitude journal and positive affirmations can change your life 7. write one positive thing that happened in your day what you focus on becomes powerful in your brain. have you ever had a good day but you couldn’t seem to get past the one bad event that happened that day? our brain is trained to look towards the negative as a natural protective response, but you can retrain your brain to focus on the positive. when you write down one or more positive things that happened that day, it helps your brain reframe the day in a positive light and actually helps to train your brain to focus on the positive aspects of your day rather than the negative. 8. affirmations your thoughts can change your brain. affirmations are a useful tool for retraining your brain. affirmations are positive reinforcements to push your brain in the direction you desire.[2] do you want to be more confident? you can write down a list of affirmations as a way to retrain your brain to believe what you want to believe. here’re some affirmations examples: i am fully confident and secure in myself. i am beaming with confidence and self-assurance. i don’t let my insecurities prevent me from reaching my goals. write down a few pieces of gratitude every morning to direct your brain in the direction of your goals to start the day. you can find more affirmations ideas here: 10 positive affirmations for success that will change your life or try one of these affirmations apps: 10 uplifting positive affirmation apps that help you re-center on the go 9. restate your purpose and mission why did you wake up today? what’s the purpose and mission of your day? are you currently working towards a specific goal? being able to state your mission and purpose helps to set the intention for your day ahead so that every action and choice you make during the day is directed towards your purpose and mission. advertising this allows you to be able to say no to activities that may be taking you away from your goal. then you can stay focused on the activities that will keep you in alignment with your purpose and mission. want to learn more about the importance of having a purpose? this article has some good advice: how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up 10. unload your stress we all have those difficult and challenging events that life inevitably throws our way. often times, we have a tendency to hold onto that stress and ruminate over it. holding onto that stress can begin effect not only our work life but our personal life as well. chronic stress is one of the biggest killers of brain health and performance. research shows that chronic or extreme stress can actually cause your brain to shrink.[3] have you ever felt less stressed after talking to someone about the challenges you are facing? unloading your stress into a journal entry is a similar strategy. by unloading your stress into your journal, it can help your brain de-stress and even help you get a different perspective on the problem. 11. reflect on old journal entries if you were trying to lose weight for several months and felt like you didn’t get the results you were hoping for but then you decided to weigh yourself, you might realize you actually lost more weight than you thought. change happens slowly and often times we don’t realize how much we have actually grown in the months or years that have passed. a helpful aspect of journaling is that after you have been practicing the habit for some time, you can reflect back on old entries. reflecting on old journal entries gives your brain an overview of that change that has occurred from the old entry until now, which can help motivate your brain to keep going. 12. brainstorm are you currently feeling stuck on a problem and not sure what’s going to be the next best step? journaling can help your brain get more clarity on the best solution. being able to lay out all aspects of the problem on paper can help your brain better work the problem so you can get to the best solution quicker and easier than trying to process just in your head. looking at the same problem through a different lens gives you a whole new picture that can help you solve it. advertising 13. tell a story creativity is like a muscle – if you don’t use it, you lose it. your brain loves routine but if you do the same journal routine over and over, your brain doesn’t change. instead of your normal routine of journaling, mix it up by telling a story. this trains your brain to become more creative, adaptable, and changeable. writing a story helps your brain break free from routine and start thinking outside the box. this can help improve your creativity in other aspects of your life as well. 14. check-in with your goals as we discussed earlier, many use their journal as a place to write down their goals. as you progress, you can use journal entries to check-in with yourself to see how you are tracking towards your goals. maybe you realize that you are not as close to your goal as you hoped. below your discovery, write down a few action steps to get you back on course toward hitting your goals. 15. create compelling vision if you want to become more motivated, then you need something compelling to look forward to. unclear goals or destinations rarely get reached. the clearer the vision, the easier it will be for your brain to visualize and attain that outcome. in a perfect world, what would your ideal future look like? where would you live? how much money are you making? what kind of car do you drive? where do you get to travel? creating this compelling future is a fun idea to help your brain become more motivated to achieve that goal. bottom line just like anything else, journaling gets better with time and practice. so, give journaling some time. at first, it may feel a bit awkward; but over time you’ll find your rhythm and routine that best suits your goals, your lifestyle, and your personality. if you’re ready to take your journaling to the next level, start incorporating these 15 journaling ideas to take your brain power to the next level. more about journaling writing journal for a better and more productive self (the how-to guide) the magic of marking down your mood every day how to bullet journal to skyrocket your productivity: 17 tips to get started how simply jotting down ideas can make you smarter featured photo credit: unsplash via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ oxford academic: the neural basis of human social values: evidence from functional mri [2] ^ the annual review of psychology: the psychology of change: self-affirmation and social psychological intervention [3] ^ cns neurol disord drug targets. 2006 oct; 5(5): 503–512.: stress and brain atrophy share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to get motivated every day when you wake up how to bullet journal to skyrocket your productivity advertising advertising more by this author dr brady salcido dr brady is a doctor, podcast host, and brain optimization expert sharing how you can use your lifestyle to upgrade your life. need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart top 9 foods for incredible brain health and brain power what foods have the most brain vitamins for enhanced mental strength why you keep waking up in the middle of the night (and how to fix it) anxiety help through meditation: how the ‘here and now’ enhances your life advertising trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques read next how to makes lasting changes with smart goal setting 10 uplifting positive affirmation apps that help you re-center on the go 10 positive affirmations for success that will change your life writing journal for a better and more productive self (the how-to guide) about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.