skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: how to how to make sure your home stays energy efficient this summer for many of us, summer has become synonymous with high energy bills. however, even if you’re one of those people who has to have their ac running at all times, there are things that you can do to cut down on energy costs. to that end, we’ve created the following… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling these are the 4 color rules that every interior design fan needs to know color is often the most difficult part of a room for interior design fans to get right. that’s because colors are fickle. there are so many shades to choose from and they need to be put together in the right proportions. otherwise, they won’t work together in harmony. luckily, there… by tara mastroeni on march 8, 2020 in inspiration these are 5 easy home maintenance tasks that will save you money these days, everyone is looking to save money wherever they can. however, if you look around your house, it’s likely that there are home maintenance tasks that you’ve been putting off fixing and, in the meantime, are costing you your hard-earned cash. this post is all… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in maintenance how to create the perfect gallery grid in your home the gallery grid, a new take on the gallery wall, is the latest. keep reading to learn all about this twist on a classic. by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration bored with your interiors? here are 4 inexpensive ways to get out of your interior design rut it happens to the best of us. sometimes, despite our best intentions of creating a visually interesting room, we get stuck in an interior design rut. when this happens, there’s no other choice than to shake things up and do your best to create a new look. luckily, this process… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 4 secrets to successfully decorating a tiny house and making it work for you here’s a quick guide to decorating a tiny house. image: ppa/shutterstock congratulations, you’ve finally taken the leap and bought a tiny home! now all that’s left to do is decorate it. decorating a tiny house is not difficult. however, there are a few unique considerations to… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 4 ways to ensure a large room doesn’t end up feeling too stark normally at freshome, we spend a lot of time talking about how to design around small spaces. however, the reality is that those with the opposite problem also deserve our time and attention. today, we’re revealing our best tricks for how to design a large room. read on to learn… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration everything you need to know about using textiles in interior design too often in interior design, textiles are seen as an afterthought. people view them as a finishing touch rather than a crucial component of the design as a whole. in reality, however, you can’t design a room without them. that’s why we’ve dedicated this piece to textiles. read on… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 4 tips to help you create a perfectly cozy breakfast nook in your home if you have enough space for it, we highly suggest incorporating a breakfast nook into your home. this space can serve as the perfect place for the family to gather, whether it’s over your morning cup of coffee or the kids’ homework after school. keep reading to learn how to… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in kitchen how to design a small dining space (without it feeling totally cramped) just because your home doesn’t have room for a full, formal dining room doesn’t mean you still can’t create a great space for entertaining. working with a small dining space can be tough, but with a little planning and forethought, you can make nearly any amount of square footage w… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in other rooms 1 2 … 5 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss