wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » themes » how to easily create a custom wordpress theme (without any code) how to easily create a custom wordpress theme (without any code) last updated on march 25th, 2019 by editorial staff 593 shares share tweet share pin do you want to create a custom wordpress theme from scratch? in the past, you had to follow the wordpress codex and have a decent coding knowledge to build a custom wordpress theme. but thanks to new wordpress theme generators, now anyone can create a completely custom wordpress theme within an hour (no coding knowledge needed). in this article, we will show you how to easily create a custom wordpress theme without writing any code. creating a custom wordpress theme for beginners unlike static html sites, wordpress themes are a set of template files written in php, html, css, and javascript. typically, you would need to have a decent understanding of all these web design languages or hire a web developer to create a custom wordpress theme. if you hired a developer or agency, then the cost of a custom wordpress theme can reach thousands of dollars. since many small business owners couldn’t afford the high costs of a custom wordpress theme, a lot of them just settled for the default themes that came with wordpress. those who didn’t want to settle and wanted customizations either used a drag & drop wordpress page builder, or they used a theme framework to build a custom theme. while wordpress theme frameworks made building a wordpress theme easier, they are a solution for developers, not an average website owner. on the other hand, wordpress page builder plugins made it super easy to create custom page layouts using a drag & drop interface, but they were limited to layouts only. you couldn’t build custom themes with it. until beaver builder, one of the best wordpress page builder plugins decided to solve this problem with their add-on called beaver themer. beaver themer is a site builder add-on that allows you to create custom theme layouts using a drag and drop interface and without learning to code. let’s take a look at how to use beaver themer for easily creating a wordpress theme. video tutorial subscribe to wpbeginner if you don’t like the video or need more instructions, then continue reading. setting up beaver themer to build a custom theme beaver themer is an add-on plugin for beaver builder, so you will need both plugins for this article. first, you need to install and activate the beaver builder and beaver themer plugins. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. beaver themer allows you to create a custom theme, but you will still need a theme to start with. we recommend using a light-weight theme that includes a full-width page template to act as your starter theme. you can find many such themes in wordpress.org theme directory. most modern wordpress themes include a full-width template. our top picks are: astra – a free light-weight all-purpose wordpress theme that comes with built-in support for beaver builder. oeanwp – another popular free multi-purpose wordpress theme that comes with full page builder support. studiopress themes – all of their themes are compatible with beaver builder and would work great with beaver themer. for the sake of this tutorial, we will be using astra, which is light-weight and easy to customize wordpress theme. setting up your theme for beaver themer when building a custom wordpress theme with beaver themer, it’s important to make sure that beaver themer has access to the full body of the page (from edge to edge). this is the default astra layout. as you can see that this layout includes a sidebar which can be difficult to work with when using beaver themer. you can change that by visiting the admin panel of your website and then navigate to appearance » customize page. from here, you need to switch to the layout » sidebars tab. once there, simply select ‘no sidebar’ under the default layout option and click on the publish button to save your changes. your theme will now start using a layout with no sidebars. this is the best layout to use with beaver themer. this full-page layout allows beaver themer to use every inch of the screen, so you can create a beautiful end-to-end visual experience. most wordpress themes include a template file for full-width pages. if you are using some other theme, then you may find an option to remove sidebars in your theme settings. if you cannot find it, then contact your theme developer and they may be able to help you with that. once you have set up your theme to a full-width layout, you are ready to create your custom wordpress theme using beaver themer. quick beaver themer fundamentals beaver themer works on top of beaver builder. as a page builder plugin, beaver builder allows you to drag and drop items to a page to create custom layouts. it has the following items that you can use in your layouts: template: a collection of columns rows, and modules that make up an entire page layout. columns: vertical layout modules that help align content horizontally. rows: horizontal collection of multiple modules module: an item that outputs specific information such as title, text block, table, gallery, etc. simply edit a page in beaver builder and then click on the add button at the top right corner. you can then drag and drop columns, rows, modules, to your page and start editing them right away. if you don’t want to start from scratch, then select from a list of pre-made templates to begin with. beaver builder also allows you to save your layouts and then use them later as templates. to learn more see our article on how to create a custom page layout using beaver builder. however, we don’t just want to create page layouts. we want to create a complete custom theme. this is when beaver themer comes in. it adds another item to beaver builder called ‘themer layout’. themer layouts allow you to create custom layouts for the header, footer, content areas, 404 page, and other template parts. these are the building blocks of all wordpress themes and by using them you’ll be able to create a custom theme that fits your needs. using beaver themer templates to create a custom wordpress theme in the following instructions, we’ll walk you through the steps it takes to build the most popular custom theme elements. by the time you’re done, you’ll have completely transformed your base theme into a fully custom wordpress child theme. building a custom header for your theme let’s start with your website’s header area. a custom header is an essential component of a theme and building one can be tricky using traditional methods. luckily, beaver themer has header features built in. you can either use the pre-created template or use the menu and image modules with a two-column layout. in order to get to this header area, first, we’ll need to set up a header layout in beaver themer. visit beaver builder » add new page and provide a title for your header. after that, select ‘themer layout’ as the type and ‘header’ as the layout option. once you’re done click on the ‘add themer layout’ button to continue. this will bring you to the layout settings page. from here you need to select ‘entire site’ as the location where the header template will be displayed on. next, click on the ‘launch beaver builder’ button to open the builder interface. beaver builder will launch with a basic single column and two-row header layout as a starting point. you can use the same beaver builder drag and drop tools to change the background, colors, text, etc. you can also add other modules, load pre-made templates, and add rows / columns by clicking on the add button at the top right corner. once you are satisfied with the design, click on the done button to save or publish your layout. you can now visit your website to see your custom theme header in action. as you can see, we have applied the header layout to our custom theme. aside from the header, it will not you show any content yet, and you will likely see your base theme’s footer area. let’s change this. building a custom footer for your theme you can create a custom footer for your theme using the beaver themer just like you created a custom header. head over to beaver builder » add new page and provide a title for your footer layout. next, select ‘themer layout’ as the type and ‘footer’ as the layout option. click on the ‘add themer layout’ button to continue. this will bring you to the layout settings page. from here you need to select ‘entire site’ as the location that the template will be displayed on. after that click on the ‘launch beaver builder’ button to open the builder interface. beaver builder will launch with a footer layout using three columns. you can use this layout as a starting point and start editing. you can add modules, text blocks, or anything else you want. you can always change colors, fonts, add a background image, and more. once you are satisfied with the design, click on the done button to save or publish your layout. building content area for post and pages now that we’ve created headers and footers for every page and post on the website, it’s time to build the post or page body (the content area). we’ll start off in much the same way that we built the header and footer by adding the ‘singular’ layout in the add new page. next, you will choose where to display this layout. you can choose singular to use it for all single posts and pages, or you can choose posts or just the pages. after that click on the ‘launch beaver builder’ button to open the builder interface. beaver builder will load a sample singular layout with post/page title at the top, followed by content, author bio box, and comments area. you can point and click to edit any of these items or add new modules, columns, and rows as needed. once you are satisfied with the layout, click on the done button to save and publish your changes. you can now visit your website to see it in action. creating archive layouts for your custom theme now that your custom theme has started to shape up, you can move on to creating layouts for other parts of your website. archive pages are where wordpress displays your categories, tags, author, and monthly archives. let’s create a layout for archive pages in your custom theme. you’ll start by visiting beaver builder » add new page and providing a title for your archive layout. after that, select ‘themer layout’ as type, and ‘archive’ as the layout option. click on the ‘add themer layout’ button to continue. this will bring you to the layout settings page. from here you need to select ‘all archive’ as the location that the template will be displayed on. you can also create separate layouts for each individual archive type like date, search results, category, tags, etc. after that click on the ‘launch beaver builder’ button to open the builder interface. beaver builder will launch with a basic single column archive layout. it will display archive title at the top, which is followed by posts. you can point and click on any item to edit its properties. you can also add new modules, rows, and columns as needed. after that, click on the ‘done’ button to save and publish your changes. creating other layouts for your custom wordpress theme beaver themer also allows you to create layouts for other pages in template hierarchy, for example, 404 page, template parts, search results page, and more. using the built-in drag and drop functionality of beaver builder, you can easily create your own custom wordpress theme from scratch without ever writing code. this is truly the most beginner friendly wordpress theme development method in existence. we hope this article helped you learn how to create a custom wordpress theme without learning to code. you may also want to see our guide on how to speed up your wordpress website for better seo and user experience. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 593 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 37 commentsleave a reply flox says: nov 17, 2019 at 10:29 am thank you for the post. it’s really helpful to me to create a site. thanks… reply wpbeginner support says: nov 18, 2019 at 10:37 am you’re welcome, glad our article was helpful reply hosli says: aug 9, 2019 at 6:42 am hi team, can i create landing page using this? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 9, 2019 at 9:43 am while you don’t need the beaver themer at the moment, you can use beaver builder for creating a landing page reply irene says: aug 2, 2019 at 2:34 am thanks for the tutorial. quick question : can i also re-add my side bars after building a new costum theme with beaver. if so how can i do that pls. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 2, 2019 at 10:19 am you would need to go back into the customizer to add the sidebar back reply louise findlay says: jul 14, 2019 at 11:57 am what’s the benefits of using beaver themer over just beaver builder? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 15, 2019 at 11:51 am it differs based on what it edits, beaver builder is for editing the content area while beaver themer is for locations other than the content area reply kathy smith says: mar 30, 2019 at 9:38 am once i create a theme, can i use it for other websites without needing beaver builder? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 1, 2019 at 11:56 am at the moment, it would require beaver builder to work on other sites as well. reply athena says: mar 27, 2019 at 5:58 am bit of a newbie question ..what happens to all my existing content as in pages and widgets (currently using the asta theme) etc whilst i’m doing this or am i first building a separate website first inside wordpress and if so how then do i transfer it over? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: mar 27, 2019 at 11:47 am your posts and pages would remain, you would normally need to readd the widgets for the new widget areas reply vince says: mar 26, 2019 at 6:58 pm haven’t tried beaver builder, but does it work like divi? are they similar? if it is, then i’d say so far, no matter what kind of theme, i haven’t found a theme that will give a total 0% coding. yes it is possible to build a page or a theme with 0% coding. but, normally there are features that a theme does not posses but the client would require for his site and therefore would need to code. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 27, 2019 at 11:11 am if you visit the beaver builder site there is the option for you to try the live demo to see how it works reply sayed ezhar says: mar 26, 2019 at 3:33 am good stuff! we will try this out. thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 26, 2019 at 11:46 am you’re welcome reply zulqar says: mar 25, 2019 at 1:57 pm hello, i am a newbie and a fan of wp beginner site. i don’t know any code, so this post is an eye opener for me! a quick question- i have been trying to get a handle on generate press. it seems to me that i need to learn some coding to play with the layout or create buttons. do you have any advice for me? thank you for helping wp beginner community! best. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 26, 2019 at 11:18 am if you go to the generate press site, they have a documentation page to help you for a starting point for their plugin. reply kat says: mar 25, 2019 at 12:00 pm currently i am using adobe muse to build multiple client websites, because it is fast and easy, and wysiwyg. but, adobe has killed it. i need to convert all of my client sites over to another software. my hosting has c-panel, so i can get wordpress app and publish on the domains. will this process let me recreate the designs i have already built that the customers want, and how complex can a site get using this? i play in wordpress, i don’t work in wp. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 4:13 pm you would want to reach out to beaver builder’s support for specifics on the design depending you your needs reply mohamed hassan says: mar 25, 2019 at 10:48 am thank for the great information! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 1:26 pm you’re welcome reply sy says: mar 25, 2019 at 9:50 am another great post! thank you. just wondering why wpbeginner always seems to avoid elementor? building a theme with elementor is very similar to building it with beaver builder, but elementor is quicker and you have way more options with styling and elements/modules. love your content! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 4:09 pm elementor pro not being gpl compliant is one of the larger concerns with recommending it depending on the use case for the user. reply monique says: mar 25, 2019 at 9:47 am fantastic tutorial. just what i needed. thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 3:55 pm you’re welcome reply captaiing says: mar 25, 2019 at 8:19 am thanks, i will try it out reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 1:27 pm we hope our article makes it easier for you reply muhammad waqar says: mar 25, 2019 at 8:11 am thanks for teach me about this plugin which is very helpful for me. this web is very helpful for me. thanks again reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 3:50 pm glad our article could help reply sajid says: mar 25, 2019 at 8:06 am thanks for sharing very informative. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 3:00 pm you’re welcome reply louise findlay says: mar 25, 2019 at 7:48 am i’m considering taking on a project migrating a site from wordpress.com to the self-hosted version and to use divi to overhaul it. following on from reading your article on best wordpress page builders, what would you recommend beaver builder or divi? with divi, you get a range of themes and plugins from elegantthemes but i’ve read negative reviews about theme lock-in and being too restrictive. have you any personal experience with it? with beaver builder, it seems the page builder functionality is spot on though it seems more complex with all the options spread throughout multiple pages and you don’t get any themes or plugins with the subscription. reply editorial staff says: mar 25, 2019 at 7:55 am both are excellent options, and they’re in our top 5. the divi page builder plugin works with other themes as well, so you’re not locked in with elegantthemes. however as with any theme, if you do switch from one theme to another, you may lose certain features. but that’s why you have to make sure the new theme has comparable feature set. as long as you’re using the divi page builder plugin, you’ll retain the drag & drop features. the benefit of divi is the added themes / layouts that elegantthemes offer. however the benefit of beaver builder is the advanced customization options. reply richard ross says: mar 25, 2019 at 2:20 pm not to mention the fact beaver builder doesn’t use shortcodes to populate the content areas. reply chris nieass says: mar 25, 2019 at 10:20 pm is not using short codes to populate content is a good thing? be gentle, i’m a newbie rob dewing says: apr 19, 2019 at 8:33 am @chris nieass, yes not using shortcodes is a great bonus of beaver. just occasionally even in the best of installations, a page builder like divi or beaver breaks. when divi breaks you end up with page content which looks dead ugly with shortcodes rendered literally all over the page. if the same was to happen to beaver, you just get your content stacked and readable in series of blocks down the page instead of pretty columns. divi is for designers who love its easy to use colourful interface and the fact that all their mates use it. beaver is for people who care about how well the site runs, ease of deeper customisations etc etc leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.