news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals how-to how to change your zoom background on desktop and mobile spice up your next meeting with a new background. by joe rice-jones march 25, 2020 image: kevin raposo / knowtechie zoom is one of the most popular pieces of video-conferencing software available, enabling millions of people to work from home whenever they need to. it’s also being used in schools, with virtual classrooms being set up to teach students. that’s partly due to how easy it is to set up, but there’s one killer feature that every zoom user should set up to use. it’s called virtual background and it can replace your webcam’s background, without needing a green screen setup. here’s how to set up zoom’s virtual background feature first, you have to make sure your account has it enabled: sign into the zoom web portal click on my meeting settings or meeting settings depending on if you have an admin or user account find the meeting tab, then make sure virtual background is turned on image: zoom then it’s time to set up your app: log in to the zoom desktop app click on your profile picture, then on settings image: zoom select the virtual background tab image: zoom image: zoom choose from the pre-installed backgrounds, or upload your own. if you have your own green screen, make sure you tick the i have a green screen button if you’re using the mobile app, you can also change your background but you have to do it once you join a meeting: join the meeting then tap the more tab tap on the virtual background option choose one of zoom’s backgrounds or upload your own photo or gif how to smooth your skin using zoom there’s one more thing you can do to really make your zoom meetings look better. you know how your phone’s portrait mode has skin smoothing? well, so does zoom. hit the up arrow next to start video click on video settings find the touch up my appearance checkbox in the my video section and select it there you have it, a handful of tips to help spice up your next inevitable zoom meeting. plan on using any of these zoom features in the future? any other zoom tips you’d like to add? let us know down below in the comments or carry the discussion over to our twitter or facebook. editors’ recommendations: how to join a zoom meeting directly from your web browser how to turn on dark mode for facebook on desktop how to enable alexa devices to play radio stations dark mode for slack’s desktop app is finally here – here’s how to turn it on related topicshow-tomeetingsvideo conferencingzoom joe rice-jones maker, meme-r and unabashed geek. hardware guy here at knowtechie, if it runs on electricity (or even if it doesn't) i probably have one around here somewhere. my hobbies include photography, animation and hoarding reddit gold. comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold time to fire up the browser version of tinder. instagram’s new co-watching feature lets you browse posts with friends – here’s how to use it the feature is now rolling out to users everywhere. how to enable alexa devices to play radio stations alexa gets even more useful. how to join a zoom meeting directly from your web browser of course, zoom tries to hide the feature. google translate’s real-time transcription feature is now live for android – here’s how to use it this could prove extremely helpful. how to turn on dark mode for facebook on desktop dark mode is nice, but the new layout is "meh" at best. the easiest way to upload photos to instagram from a mac i wish i had discovered this ages ago. twitter now lets you turn lists into multiple timelines – here’s how to use it take back control of your twitter feed. how to enable alexa devices to play radio stations instagram’s new co-watching feature lets you browse posts with friends – here’s how to use it home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie