home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) be productive tips for writers by dave chesson how long would it take you to write an 80k word novel? or a 60k word self-help book? would it take you a month? a year? or perhaps longer? while you can’t rush perfection, there is something to be said about the speed and efficiency with which you write. as a matter of fact, a lack of speed and efficiency can seriously hold you back. publishers have deadlines. readers have expectations. you may lose a few fans if they’re eagerly waiting for the next installment in your series but you never get it done (like *cough cough* george r.r. martin). but the real cost of inefficient writing is about you, not your readers. your head is full of great ideas. you need to write efficiently so all your worlds, characters, and ideas can make their way onto paper. you don’t want your books to miss out on the great advice or plot twists you’ve thought of, and you certainly don’t want your best work to die inside you without ever getting shared at all. fortunately, the right strategies can help you be the most productive writer that you can be. so, let’s look at how to consistently write faster… 1. find your peak writing hours are you a morning person? or a night owl? or something in-between? this is actually a very important question to ask yourself when it comes to writing. it’s hard to get serious writing done when you’re groggy and unfocused. when you write at a good time for your body and mind, you can get more work done faster. there’s a belief going around that writing between the hours of say 4:00 am to 7:00 am is just perfect. you get some peace and quiet in the morning before the day really begins, and that’s when you can really crank out some good prose. but that’s simply not true for everybody. i have team members who don’t even start their writing process until midnight! personally, i’d fall asleep on my book stand long before then, but it works just fine for them. try writing at a few different times of day to see what’s best for you. discovering the time of day when your mind is sharpest and the words come easiest can make every writing session more productive. 2. set a word count goal when you first start working on a new book or writing project, you’re at peak motivation. your mind is made up and excited about this big undertaking. the word count you’re pumping out each day might seem awesome. until it doesn’t. sustaining motivation can be tough for writers. a well-written book takes time, and burnout is common. those 3k-4k word days can quickly devolve into weeks where nothing is accomplished. the best way around this is to set a concrete word count minimum for each writing day and stick to it. setting daily goals and subsequently achieving them can be just the right amount of structure to keep you going. many professional authors, including stephen king, set their daily goal at right around 2,000 words. but for those of us whose full time job isn’t writing, the number will probably need to be smaller. that’s okay. in fact, it isn’t really about words at all. if you’re a food blogger writing a mexican cookbook, you might set a daily recipe goal instead of a word count. or if you’re writing a short book for 6 year olds, you might not need 2,000 words. the point is to make sure you’re always moving forward. 500 words a day is more than 15,000 words per month. in other words, consistent progress adds up fast. 3. create a detailed outline if you’ve watched james patterson’s masterclass then you know what his secret weapon to writing is: a great outline. spending time on your outline is one of the best ways to write more productively and avoid writer’s block. the better you plot your ideas, the easier it will be for you to actually put them down on paper. you should plan each of your chapters or scenes with sufficient detail. what do you want your readers to learn, to think, to feel? try putting all of this in your outline. then, when you go to actually write the scene, you’ll already have in mind the picture you are attempting to paint. think about your major insights or plot points, and jot those down as well. the goal is to give yourself a map you can follow all the way to the finish — to avoid hitting a wall and getting sidetracked. basically, the moral of the story is: be prepared. if you always know what you need to write, you’ll have an easier time hitting that daily word minimum. how to consistently write faster by experimenting by following these simple techniques, you can learn how to consistently write faster and your efficiency will improve. but that doesn’t mean these are the only things you can do. there are plenty of author softwares that can help you write and create your next book faster. or maybe you’re a slow typist. one of those “one-finger typists” like rl stine. learning to touch type could be worth looking into. point is… there’s always room to improve. just examine your process carefully and find out where your weak spots are. and then ask what it would take for you to fix them. you’ll be glad you did. do you have any tips on how to consistently write faster and more efficiently? put your best one in the comments below. tweet pin9 share100 109 shares related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson about the author dave chesson dave chesson teaches authors advanced book marketing tactics at kindlepreneur.com. he likes sharing in-depth, actionable guides, such as his recent comparison of the best book writing software. his free time is spent in tennessee with his wife and children. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >