barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up answers how training and boarding can help your dog share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest naomi rogers writer shares share tweet pin being a dog pawrent is a big responsibility. no matter how calm and gentle your pup, all dogs need at least some basic training to stay safe and become good canine citizens. training also helps build confidence which is a huge asset should you ever board your pooch. dog training and boarding may not seem to go together, but in an emergency, you’ll be glad your pup is prepared. both training and boarding will help your dog develop the skills and self assurance they need to become a happy, well-adjusted pup. training is an excellent opportunity to bond with a new puppy or strengthen your relationship with an adult dog. spending time apart during doggy daycare/boarding helps your dog learn to cope without you and understand that you will always come back. table of contents dog training and boarding could save your pup’s life dog training 101 sit down stay come off leave it/drop it heel socialization and neutralization to the world around them crate training how training prepares your pup for being boarded dog training and boarding could save your pup’s life in recent years, the u.s. has been plagued by powerful hurricanes and devastating wildfires. countless pets have lost their homes, their families, and even their lives. these situations highlight the need for dog training and boarding. it is natural for a dog to panic when faced with the chaos of a natural disaster. many pets are lost when they take off during the evacuation process. while animals can be unpredictable in an emergency, those that are trained to follow basic commands are more likely to remain safely with their owners. in addition, crate training is helpful when it comes to boarding your dog during a disaster or staying at evacuation centers and hotels. dogs with crate training and/or boarding experience are less likely to experience stress in these situations. dog training 101 whether you have a new puppy or an adult dog, there are a few important skills every pooch should learn. professional dog trainers may differ on how to teach them, but most will agree there are at least seven essential commands every pup should know. *be sure to use positive reinforcement techniques like treats and praise! sit this is usually the first command a dog learns. while it is quite simple, it helps set the tone for more advanced commands and prepares your pup to respond to training. down teaching your dog to lay down on command is especially important for larger pups that may be seen as intimidating by some people. a dog in the laying position is seen as calm and non-threatening. stay stay is a very important command and a natural next step after sit and down. teaching your dog to stay will help you “own the door” when guests come to the house and is also essential for safety. successfully teaching the stay command will help you prevent your dog from chasing after squirrels, cars, and unsuspecting cyclists. come the come or recall command is also incredibly important for safety. your dog must learn that when they hear this word, they are to ignore everything else – including strangers, cars, other dogs, etc – and immediately report to your side! off not to be confused with down, the off command teaches your dog not to jump on people. even the gentlest dog can seriously hurt a child or senior by jumping up. leave it/drop it has your dog ever taken off with one of your dirty socks or an even more “personal” item? then you understand the importance of the leave it and drop it commands! snatching your things can become a fun game for some pups. they don’t realize just how dangerous some objects can be. heel every dog loves a good walk. but if your pup is terrible on a leash, it can quickly become a nightmare! some dogs pull ahead, cross in front of your legs, lag behind, or even jump and lunge at other walkers. teaching them to heel and walk politely by your side will make walks safer and more enjoyable for everyone! socialization and neutralization to the world around them socialization skills are among the earliest and most important lessons you can teach your dog. they are also among the easiest dog training lessons. as long as your pup has enough vaccinations to mingle in public, start introducing them to people and other dogs. pet stores, parks, and your vet’s office are good places for meet-ups. you can also invite friends over for meet-and-greets. make sure you introduce your dog to all different kinds of people and pets. neutralization and socialization go hand-in-hand. this dog training technique exposes pups to their environment. most dogs quickly learn to like people, but some still fear the accessories that go along with them. for example, men wearing hats, women with strong perfume, baby carriages, skateboards, umbrellas, etc. can all be triggers. you also want to desensitize your dog to loud noises and scary sights that could cause a fear response. garbage trucks, revving motorcycles, construction sites, thunder and fireworks are common stimuli that often cause dogs to bolt, become lost, or suffer serious injuries. crate training dogs are pack animals. when given the option, they almost always choose to be with their hoomans and fellow pets. however, in times of stress, most dogs appreciate having a space of their own. teaching them to love their crate is as simple as making it a safe, cozy place and using positive reinforcement. here are a few tips to help your dog learn to love their crate: never force them to go in against their will and never use the crate as punishment. place the crate in a warm, quiet area with comfy bedding and an article of clothing carrying your smell. place treats just inside the crate and slowly move them further back to get your pup used to going inside. be sure to reward them with extra treats and lots of praise when they finally go in on their own! begin feeding your dog in their crate with the door closed and latched. this will help reinforce the crate as a happy place. slowly begin increasing the length of time your dog stays in the crate while you are in another room. when you reach 30 minutes of your dog calmly remaining in the crate, try leaving the house for short periods. never crate your dog for longer than 5 hours. how training prepares your pup for being boarded basic obedience, crate training and socialization are all extremely helpful should you ever have to board your dog. the process of dog training boosts confidence and teaches your pup how to behave in a variety of situations. boarding can be scary if a dog is not prepared. while boarding, your pooch is bound to meet other dogs of various temperaments. socialization will help them get along well with the other canines as well as the staff. in addition, neutralization training will help prepare them for the sounds of barking and clanking cages. depending on the type of boarding facility you choose, your dog may spend a good amount of their day in a kennel. crate training prior to boarding will ensure they can handle confinement with minimal stress. dog training and boarding are fundamentals of being a pawrent. what matters most is keeping your dog and everyone who interacts with them safe. if you do not have experience training dogs, hire a professional to help you develop your skills. your dog will be much more responsive to your commands if you are calm and confident. there are also several companies offering online dog training for those intent on working one-on-one with their dogs. these programs offer step-by-step videos and exclusive access to highly skilled online trainers. topics include everything from basic commands to advanced problem solving and canine sports. programs offering online dog training include cyberdog online, e-training for dogs, and awesome paws agility academy. comments poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up naomi rogers writer afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts lhasa apso breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts irish wolfhound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go