start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search how to start your business – 10 week challenge how to start your business - 10 week challenge take me to the steps welcome to the 10 week day challenge to begin your own business. no matter what your idea and current situation is, this challenge will help you move beyond your idea stage and take baby steps towards your own business. you can follow the challenge even if you intend to continue at your full time job along with running the business. if you think your friend needs to take up this challenge, do let him/her know. inviting a friend will make the challenge more exciting. two is company, three is a crowd and four is a party. be a part of the challenge community on faceboook how to start your business - 10 week challenge the challenge works if you want to build a side hustle like a blog or a full time business like a restaurant chain. the challenge is split into 10 weeks. each week you will have to work on making progress and taking one step closer to owning your business. what was once an idea will soon be a reality. the challenge expects you to complete a certain set of tasks every week. based on your idea and the scale of business you intend, you might need longer to complete the quota for the week. in such cases, extend the timeline for another week or two. do not rush through the challenge to complete it. step by step actions for each week week 1: know your why and understand the reality of entrepreneurship week 2: validate your idea and find if people will pay for your idea week 3: identify the skills you need to learn and build a business model canvas week 4: start tracking your progress with deadlines week 5: talk to 5 or more entrepreneurs in a similar business week 6: prepare the budget you need to start your venture week 7: prepare the budget for your monthly expenses week 8: consider emergencies and possible failure/unforeseen circumstances week 9: revisit deadlines and come up with a 12-week plan week 10: read about leadership and avoid the most common mistakes frequently asked questions what i find one week for the task too fast? the purpose of the challenge is to keep you moving instead of being stuck forever with an idea. the timeline of a week is only an estimation. you are the best judge of the time necessary to complete the tasks. feel free to extend it to more weeks beyond the recommended timeline. what if i find certain steps of the challenge difficult to do? the purpose of the challenge is to stretch your limits and improve. building a business the right way is no easy feat, so you are recommended to complete every task mentioned for the good of your business. can i skip some tasks from the challenge? the short answer is no. skipping some tasks can stop you from acquiring useful knowledge for the future. feel free to modify the task to suit your needs better but do not skip them. how do i participate in the challenge? you just have to bookmark this page. invite a friend to make the challenge more exciting. two is company, three is a crowd and four is a party. you can receive reminders on the challenge by adding your email below. the most simple way to participate in the challenge is to join the facebook group and receive the daily challenge on your feed every day. be a part of the challenge community on faceboook sign up for the 10 week challenge your name your email 25shares a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 25shares top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?