start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising health mental strength advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) marcin gil marcin is a spiritual being just like anyone challenging to uncover what we already have – spiritual freedom. read full profile share pin it tweet share email mental stress has become pandemic, and for many it is a default state in everyday life.[1] learning how to reduce stress, then, is becoming more and more important. mental stress can be defined as: an inward tension or pressure caused by the inability to manage the incoming information of outside stimuli. in one of my recent (active) meditation sessions on how to reduce stress, a participant said they often got stressed quickly for no apparent reason and asked for a quick way to reduce stress. i said there is a way to learn how to reduce stress, but to be able to do it, you need to understand how and why stress builds up so quickly. if we get stressed often and quickly, it means that we are harboring many internal conflicts and are not conscious of them. this makes it impossible to get rid of stress quickly. first, we must learn what causes mental stress. table of contents what causes mental stress? how to reduce stress stress relieving activities simple tools for creating a technique to reduce mental stress a comprehensive stress management technique final thoughts more tips on reducing stress what causes mental stress? its origin is triggered by a signal from outside stimuli — a piece of information of an objective or subjective nature, or both at once. the mental stress develops very slowly at the beginning. we cannot observe its development because of our lack of understanding of mental energy. the information we receive from the outside (which we dislike), creates a feeling that evolves into a negative emotion (negative mental energy). for example, the inability to understand or accept other people’s point of view can cause mental stress. my personal experience with mental stress in my late twenties, i struggled consistently with mental stress. i was happy to work in a global corporation and also excited to be responsible for many projects at once. despite the work load i had, i was a victim of mobbing because of my keen engagement towards my tasks. i was physically and mentally exhausted because of the many complex purchase orders i had to place for the projects assigned to me. on top of that, there were certain people in the organization giving me hard time because of my desire to strive to improve. advertising there was an immediate disharmony between me and these people that generated a feeling of intolerance and non-acceptance. this grew into feelings of disappointment and frustration, which ended up creating emotion of anger and anxiety over not performing well or losing my job. day in, and day out, i was stressed. i understood that the people and the circumstances causing my mental stress wouldn’t change, so i had to understand that, accept it, and find a way to approach my stress and conflicts efficiently. i saw it as a challenge and was grateful for it. i not only reduced my mental stress but found a way to never let it develop again. how to reduce stress there is many techniques you can use when learning how to reduce stress quickly and naturally. the sooner you can make it your own, the quicker you’ll be able to reduce your mental stress. a technique is applied successfully when its essence is really understood and absorbed. if a technique is to be applied quickly, there must be extensive knowledge of the situation in which the technique is required. in the context of mental stress, for example, we get scared and anxious in (sometimes normal) situations because we don’t know what is happening or what is going to happen. the uncertainty of the result causes tension and mental stress. the longer we move in that uncertainty, the greater and heavier our mental stress becomes. the accomplishment of being able to deal with challenges and stressful life situations boosts our self-confidence and makes life meaningful and successful. however, this requires a certain expertise, and that expertise starts with self-inquiry and the development of a technique. to own a technique, we must develop activities into tools and apply them. activities + tools + practice = technique. stress relieving activities starting with some stress relieving activities is a good way to get moving on your journey to learning how to reduce mental stress. below are some examples of stress relieving activities: advertising observing and enjoying nature taking long walks in the park talking with those we are close to doing sports listening to music singing dancing all of the above are great stress relieving activities. however, they are not techniques that can teach you to understand the nature of mental stress, reduce it successfully, and even eliminate it entirely. being busy complying with daily duties, we have almost no time to devote to these stress relieving activities. we use them out of necessity as tools to reduce stress, and after the activity is finished, the mental stress crawls back and overtakes us again. then, most of us find simple activities like eating, entertaining, shopping, gambling, drugs, etc. as a shortcut to temporarily relieve stress. these generally end up creating negative long-term consequences like obesity, fatigue, boredom, depression, and so on. as a result, mental stress clouds our mental clarity, withdrawing our creativity, not letting our intelligence to expand, and leaving us without motivation to deal with the root-cause of it all. the technique i am about to describe here uses the activities mentioned above to create tools, the main elements of your own technique. as mentioned before: activity + tools + practice = technique simple tools for creating a technique to reduce mental stress apply one of the greatest mental energies as tools to any of the above stress relieving activities to create your own individual technique: gratitude when you evoke the emotion of gratitude to any of your activities, you switch your mental state from stressful to peaceful (grateful). when you consciously acknowledge gratitude toward the present, you send information to your brain that immediately soothes your central nervous system, producing positive hormones like serotonin and dopamine. these hormones reduce your mental stress and create a good feeling, a feeling of reward for having reached a goal.[2] advertising also, try to be grateful for the stressors that challenge your efficiency and signal an opportunity to improve. conscious breathing support this activity though rhythmic, conscious breathing and intensify your gratefulness and the feeling of that reward. use your conscious breathing to create a breathing pattern that will identify the moment as one in which you’ve created safety, peace, and self-respect within yourself. use these two tools to approach the seven activities listed above or any other activities you find as stress relieving, and practice integrating them in ways that work for you. once you merge the tools with the activities, you’ll be able to create your personal technique to reduce your mental stress quickly and naturally and apply it in literally any activity. a comprehensive stress management technique apart from calming a busy mind, where you apply the techniques physiologically to reduce thoughts and calm the mind, here we need deeper expertise and the application of subtle energies to create specific thoughts to reduce and eliminate mental stress. for fast results, one thing is to keep the mind calm and reduce stress, but more importantly you need to train the mind to stay busy and efficient. we will work with a two-in-one technique here. step 1 identify the stressor (the root-cause of your stress). you can discover this by being aware of your surroundings and of your reactions to it; is it the person and her/his actions/behavior that are causing my stress? is it the idea i have about how things are happening around me (at work or at home)? be realistic with yourself in identifying the root-cause of your stress. no one can do it more quickly. advertising after you have identified the stressor, generate specific thoughts, such as, “i am grateful for this challenge, and i will find a way to accept it as is and work on changing my approach and reaction to it.” once you achieve this, the stressor has no longer the same level of influence on you. step 2 develop/apply the stress relieving activity together with the tool, and approach the stressor when you’re ready (don’t forget the specific thoughts from step 1). for example, your boss, your husband, your wife, or your teenage children are giving you a hard time. it takes only minutes to understand and accept that they can’t do better than that. be grateful for this realization. they are a part of your life. you have paved your way, step by step, and you are partially responsible for being in this situation with them. if this situation is not life threatening, then it is nothing but a challenge, an opportunity for growth and development. apply gratitude and practice breathing exactly when the stressful situation is happening and not only when walking in the park or when you know that you are safe from the mental stress. step 3 practice these tools and this approach consciously in stress reliving activities, but most importantly in stressful situations, and do it continuously. this way you will develop your own individual technique and become an expert in dealing with your personal stressors. you will begin to notice a change, and you’ll see how your approach is characterized by gratitude, patience, and tolerance. communicate these qualities to your challenger and let him/her see your approach and good intentions as they are the main elements of your technique. final thoughts in a matter of days, by simply applying your own technique, you can reduce mental stress quickly and naturally. the technique that you create will make you the expert of your own actions and eventually of your own life. the technician always owns the technique that is to be performed. be the technician of your stress and of your life. i salute the spirit in you! more tips on reducing stress how to declutter your life and reduce stress (the ultimate guide) how to stay calm and cool when you are extremely stressed 7 tips for coping with stress effectively featured photo credit: haley phelps via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ science direct: mental stress [2] ^ healthline: serotonin share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 6 relaxation techniques to calm your busy mind 7 tips for coping with stress effectively 3 deep breathing exercises to relax and reduce stress advertising advertising more by this author marcin gil marcin is a spiritual being just like anyone challenging to uncover what we already have – spiritual freedom. how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) 6 relaxation techniques to calm your busy mind how to learn yoga (the beginner’s guide) how to stop feeling guilty and move on from the past 7 beginner yoga exercises for men to increase mobility advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author marcin gil marcin is a spiritual being just like anyone challenging to uncover what we already have – spiritual freedom. how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) 6 relaxation techniques to calm your busy mind how to learn yoga (the beginner’s guide) how to stop feeling guilty and move on from the past 7 beginner yoga exercises for men to increase mobility trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next 6 ways to implement more gratitude in your life the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) advertising advertising lifestyle health advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life leanne louie leanne is a passionate writer who shares lifestyle tips on lifehack. read full profile share pin it tweet share email when it comes to living long, genes aren’t everything. research has revealed a number of simple lifestyle changes you can make that could help to extend your life, and some of them may surprise you. so, how to live longer? here are 21 ways to help you live a long life 1. exercise it’s no secret that physical activity is good for you. exercise helps you maintain a healthy body weight and lowers your blood pressure, both of which contribute to heart health and a reduced risk of heart disease–the top worldwide cause of death. 2. drink in moderation i know you’re probably picturing a glass of red wine right now, but recent research suggests that indulging in one to three glasses of any type of alcohol every day may help to increase longevity.[1] studies have found that heavy drinkers as well as abstainers seem to have a higher risk of early mortality than moderate drinkers. 3. reduce stress in your life stress causes your body to release a hormone called cortisol. at high levels, this hormone can increase blood pressure and cause storage of abdominal fat, both of which can lead to an increased risk of heart disease. 4. watch less television a 2008 study found that people who watch six hours of television per day will likely die an average of 4.8 years earlier than those who don’t.[2] it also found that, after the age of 25, every hour of television watched decreases life expectancy by 22 minutes. advertising television promotes inactivity and disengagement from the world, both of which can shorten your lifespan. 5. eat less red meat red meat consumption is linked to an increased risk of heart disease and cancer.[3] swapping out your steaks for healthy proteins, like fish, may help to increase longevity. if you can’t stand the idea of a steak-free life, reducing your consumption to less than two to three servings a week can still incur health benefits. 6. don’t smoke this isn’t exactly a revelation. as you probably well know, smoking significantly increases your risk of cancer. 7. socialize studies suggest that having social relationships promotes longevity.[4] although scientists are unsure of the reasons behind this, they speculate that socializing leads to increased self esteem as well as peer pressure to maintain health. 8. eat foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids omega-3 fatty acids decrease the risk of heart disease[5] and perhaps even alzheimer’s disease.[6] salmon and walnuts are two of the best sources of omega-3s. advertising 9. be optimistic studies suggest that optimists are at a lower risk for heart disease and, generally, live longer than pessimists.[7] researchers speculate that optimists have a healthier approach to life in general–exercising more, socializing, and actively seeking out medical advice. thus, their risk of early mortality is lower. 10. own a pet having a furry-friend leads to decreased stress, increased immunity, and a lessened risk of heart disease.[8] depending on the type of pet, they can also motivate you to be more active. 11. drink coffee studies have found a link between coffee consumption and longer life.[9] although the reasons for this aren’t entirely clear, coffee’s high levels of antioxidants may play a role. remember, though, drowning your cup of joe in sugar and whipped cream could counter whatever health benefits it may hold. 12. eat less japan has the longest average lifespan in the world, and the longest lived of the japanese–the natives of the ryukyu islands–stop eating when they’re 80% full. limiting your calorie intake means lower overall stress on the body. 13. meditate meditation leads to stress reduction and lowered blood pressure.[10] research suggests that it could also increase the activity of an enzyme associated with longevity.[11] taking as little as 15 minutes a day to find your zen can have significant health benefits, and may even extend your life. advertising how to meditate? here’re 8 meditation techniques for complete beginners 14. maintain a healthy weight being overweight puts stress on your cardiovascular system, increasing your risk of heart disease.[12] it may also increase the risk of cancer.[13] maintaining a healthy weight is important for heart health and living a long and healthy life. 15. laugh often laughter reduces the levels of stress hormones, like cortisol, in your body. high levels of these hormones can weaken your immune system. 16. don’t spend too much time in the sun too much time in the sun can lead to an increased risk of skin cancer. however, sun exposure is an excellent way to increase levels of vitamin d, so soaking up a few rays–perhaps for around 15 minutes a day–can be healthy. the key is moderation. 17. cook your own food when you eat at restaurants, you surrender control over your diet. even salads tend to have a large number of additives, from sugar to saturated fats. eating at home will enable you to monitor your food intake and ensure a healthy diet. take a look at these 14 healthy easy recipes for people on the go and start to cook your own food. advertising 18. eat mushrooms mushrooms are a central ingredient in dr. joel fuhrman’s gombs disease fighting diet. they boost the immune system and may even reduce the risk of cancer.[14] 19. floss flossing helps to stave off gum disease, which is linked to an increased risk of cancer.[15] 20. eat foods rich in antioxidants antioxidants fight against the harmful effects of free-radicals, toxins which can cause cell damage and an increased risk of disease when they accumulate in the body. berries, green tea and broccoli are three excellent sources of antioxidants. find out more antiosidants-rich foods here: 13 delicious antioxidant foods that are great for your health 21. have sex getting down and dirty two to three times a week can have significant health benefits. sex burns calories, decreases stress, improves sleep, and may even protect against heart disease.[16] it’s an easy and effective way to get exercise–so love long and prosper! more health tips powerful daily routine examples for a healthy and high-achieving you make these 17 health goals into daily habits for better overall wellness how to work towards a healthy life balance featured photo credit: sweethearts/patrick via flickr.com reference [1] ^ wiley online library: late‐life alcohol consumption and 20‐year mortality [2] ^ bmj journals: television viewing time and reduced life expectancy: a life table analysis [3] ^ arch intern med.: red meat consumption and mortality [4] ^ plos medicine: social relationships and mortality risk: a meta-analytic review [5] ^ jama: fish and omega-3 fatty acid intake and risk of coronary heart disease in women [6] ^ ncbi: effects of omega‐3 fatty acids on cognitive function with aging, dementia, and neurological diseases: summary [7] ^ mayo clinic proc: prediction of all-cause mortality by the minnesota multiphasic personality inventory optimism-pessimism scale scores: study of a college sample during a 40-year follow-up period. [8] ^ med hypotheses.: pet ownership protects against the risks and consequences of coronary heart disease. [9] ^ the new england journal of medicine: association of coffee drinking with total and cause-specific mortality [10] ^ american journal of hypertension: blood pressure response to transcendental meditation: a meta-analysis [11] ^ science direct: intensive meditation training, immune cell telomerase activity, and psychological mediators [12] ^ jama: the disease burden associated with overweight and obesity [13] ^ jama: the disease burden associated with overweight and obesity [14] ^ african journal of biotechnology: anti-cancer effect of polysaccharides isolated from higher basidiomycetes mushrooms [15] ^ science direct: periodontal disease, tooth loss, and cancer risk in male health professionals: a prospective cohort study [16] ^ aha journals: sexual activity and cardiovascular disease share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to work towards a healthy life balance powerful daily routine examples for a healthy and high-achieving you 14 healthy easy recipes for people on the go advertising advertising more by this author leanne louie leanne is a passionate writer who shares lifestyle tips on lifehack. how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life 5 life lessons from game of thrones 12 ways to live more in the moment 10 brain boosting foods you should be eating 7 habits of highly effective hobbits advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how do you meditate? 8 meditation techniques for complete beginners make these 17 health goals into daily habits for better overall wellness 8 surprising benefits of salmon (with recipe) 7 comics about periods that only women would understand about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.