english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get hubspot free home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in marketing sales service website subscribe subscribe to our blog stay up to date with the latest marketing, sales, and service tips and news. subscribe via email subscribe on slack subscribe via email marketing sales service website email address we're committed to your privacy. hubspot uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products, and services. you may unsubscribe from these communications at any time. for more information, check out our privacy policy. back to other options thank you! you have been subscribed. get hubspot free sales | 8 min read how to create a sales plan: guide + template written by meredith hart @meredithlhart featured resource: sales plan template [free]download now do you have a sales plan? entrepreneurs, sales executives, and sales managers all benefit from writing sales plans -- whether for their business, department, or team. but, what is a sales plan exactly? what is a sales plan? a sales plan lays out your objectives, high-level tactics, target audience, and potential obstacles. it's like a traditional business plan but focuses specifically on your sales strategy. a business plan lays out your goals -- a sales plan describes exactly how you'll make those happen. sales plans often include information about the business' target customers, revenue goals, team structure, and the strategies and resources necessary for achieving its targets. an effective sales plan should do the following: communicate your company’s goals and objectives to your sales team. provide strategic direction for your sales team. outline roles and responsibilities for your sales team and leadership. monitor your sales team’s progress to organizational goals. sales plan template ready to write your own plan? use a sales plan template to get started. a typical sales plan includes the following sections: target customers — who your company aims to serve with its products and services. revenue targets — how much revenue your team aims to bring in each period. strategies and tactics — the specific actions your team will take to reach revenue targets. pricing and promotions — documentation of your offering’s prices and any upcoming promotions that can convert customers. deadlines and dris (directly responsible individuals) — outline any important dates for deliverables and list who is accountable for their completion. team structure — who is on your team, and what their role is. resources — the tools your team uses to reach revenue targets. market conditions — pertinent information about your industry and the competitive landscape. now let's walk through how to write a sales plan. how to write a sales plan mission and background team target market tools, software, and resources positioning marketing strategy prospecting strategy action plan goals budget 1. mission and background begin your sales plan by stating your company mission and vision statements. and write up a brief history of the business -- this will provide background information as the plan drills down into more specific details. 2. team next, describe who is on your team and what their roles are. perhaps you manage five salespeople and work closely with a sales enablement professional and a sales ops specialist. if you're planning on adding headcount, include the number of employees, their job titles, and when you're planning to bring them on the team. 3. target market whether you're writing your first sales plan or your fifteenth, knowing your target demographic is crucial. what do your best customers look like? do they all belong to a specific industry? exceed a certain size? struggle with the same challenge? keep in mind you might have different buyer personas for different products. for example, hubspot salespeople might primarily sell marketing software to cmos and sales software to sales directors. this section of your sales plan can also change dramatically over time as your solution and strategy evolves and you find product-market fit. in the very beginning, when your product was in its infancy and your prices were low, you may have found success selling to startups. now that the product is far more robust and you've raised the price, mid-market companies are likely a better fit. that's why it's important to consistently review and update your personas. 4. tools, software, and resources you should also include a description of your resources. which crm software do you plan on using? do you have a budget for sales contests and incentives? this is where you'll lay out which tools your salespeople should use to succeed in their jobs (e.g., training, documentation, sales enablement tools, etc.). 5. positioning now, name your competitors. explain how your products compare, where theirs are stronger than yours, and vice versa. in addition, discuss their pricing versus yours. you should also discuss market trends. if you're a saas company, you should note vertical-specific software is becoming more popular. if you sell ads, mention the rise in programmatic mobile advertising. try to predict how these changes will influence your business. 6. marketing strategy in this section, describe your pricing and any promotions you're planning on running. what key actions will you take to increase brand awareness and generate leads? note the impact on sales. here's a mock version: product a: increasing price from $40 to $45 on feb. 2 (2% reduction in monthly sales) product b: free upgrade if you refer another customer from jan. 1-20 (20% increase in monthly sales) product c: decreasing price from $430 to $400 on march 1 (15% increase in monthly sales) product d: no change 7. prospecting strategy how will your sales team qualify the leads that are generated by your marketing strategy? don't forget to include the criteria prospects should meet before sales reps reach out. and identify which inbound and outbound sales methods your team will use to close more deals. 8. action plan once you've outlined where you want to go, you must figure out how you'll get there. this section summarizes your game plan for hitting your revenue targets. here are a few examples: 1. objective: increase referral rates by 30% this quarter run three-day referral techniques workshop hold sales contest for referral sales increase commission on referral sales by 5% 2. objective: acquire 20 enterprise logos identify 100 potential prospects and assign a tiger team to each hold two executive-level events give a bonus to the first team to win three logos 9. goals most sales goals are revenue-based. for example, you might set a total target of $10 million in annual recurring revenue (arr). alternatively, you can set a volume goal. that could be 100 new customers or 450 sales. make sure your objective is realistic, otherwise your entire sales plan will be largely useless. factor in your product's price, total addressable market (tam), market penetration, and resources (including your sales headcount and marketing support). your goal should also be closely tied to your high-level business goals; to give you an idea, if the company is trying to move upmarket, your goal might be "acquire 20 enterprise logos" rather than "sell x in new business" (because the former will encourage you to solely chase deals rather than focus on the right type of customers). of course, you'll probably have more than one goal. identify the most important, then rank the rest by priority. if you have territories, assign a sub-goal to each. that will make it easier to identify over- and under-performers. lay out your timeline too. having regular benchmarks ensures you'll know if you're on track, ahead, or behind in meeting your targets. suppose your sales goal for the first quarter of the year is selling $30,000. based on last year's performance, you know january and february sales are slower than march. with that in mind, your timeline is: january: $8,000 february: $8,000 march: $14,000 you should also write in the dris (directly responsible individuals) if applicable. for example, maybe rep carol's january quota is $5,000. rep shane, who's still ramping, has a $3,000 monthly quota. on a smaller team, this exercise helps people avoid replicating each other's work -- and shifting blame around if targets aren't met. 10. budget describe the costs associated with hitting your sales goals. that usually includes: pay (salary and commission) sales training sales tools and resources contest prizes team bonding activities travel costs food compare the sales plan budget to your sales forecast for accurate budgeting. free template free sales plan template tell us a little about yourself below to gain access: strategic sales plan examples if you're in need of some more inspiration, take a look at these sales plan examples. 1. hubspot sales plan we've created a sales plan template that outlines the key elements of a sales plan. this template will walk you through each of the steps to write a sales plan of your own. source: hubspot 2. sample sales plan organizing your strategies and goals with a sales plan will make it easier for you and your sales team to stick to the targets you've set. source: besttemplates 3. asana sales plan if you use asana project management software, this template is for you. embed this template where your team works and communicates to keep everyone aligned with your sales strategy. source: asana 4. 1-page sales plan a sales plan doesn't need to be hundreds of pages long. try consolidating your sales plan to a page or two. source: besttemplates 5. small business sales plan if you run a small business, you may not have a fully stacked sales team yet. establish a strong sales strategy for your company that future hires can build off of with this template. source: fitsmallbusiness 6. sales action plan dive into the details of your sales strategy with a sales action plan. source: besttemplates 7. 30-60-90 day sales plan customize your sales plan to set goals for the short-term and long-term. source: template.net 8. 90 day sales plan look ahead at your sales strategies for the next 90 days using this sample sales plan. source: template.net there's no one-size-fits-all sales plan. the only wrong way to use a sales plan is to write it at the start of the year or quarter and never touch it again; you should periodically review and even update it as time goes on to ensure you're focused and on-track. originally published dec 8, 2019 8:20:00 am, updated december 08 2019 topics: sales strategy don't forget to share this post! related articles how to give & receive quota relief for salespeople sales | 6 min read key account management: the ultimate guide sales | 9 min read sales volume: why it matters and 10 ways to increase it sales | 5 min read download for later increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2019 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy