home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) become a top blogger non-fiction by marion selista have you ever wondered why your blog usually attracts a lot of traffic but doesn’t seem to attract the right audience? or fails to drive traffic at all? that could be because you do not know how to choose keywords for your blog. the right keywords not only optimize your blog posts on search results but also ensure it attracts the right audience. now you know where you went wrong, you are probably wondering, how do you pick the right keywords for your blog? this article contains insider tips that you will wish you knew before launching your first blog. here is a step by step guide on how to find and choose proper keywords for your blog. understand the goal of your blog you must take time setting and understanding your overall goals before selecting what keywords to use. knowing how to choose keywords for your blog is only possible when you understand what are trying to achieve. once you are clear on your blog’s goals, to obtain results faster, you should choose lower competition, higher volume keywords. moreover, the keywords you choose also depend on whether you are targeting a particular audience or a general audience. if the goal of your post is to create awareness, the keywords you choose will be different from a blog post whose goal is to drive sales. so, take a step back and brainstorm. understand the goal of your blog post before deciding the keywords to use. develop a keyword list to develop a keyword list, you need to put yourself in your customer or reader’s shoes. you should find the search terms that bring people to your site. ask yourself, ‘if i wanted to find a particular product or piece of advice on google, what would i type in the search box?’ to come up with a number of phrases, use google trends or google suggest. you must have noticed that whenever you start typing on google search box, there is an endless list of automatic predictions of what you might be looking for that pops up. this is google suggest. at the bottom of serp (search engine results page), there is also another list of related searches that provide ideas for keywords to use. alternatively, or in conjunction, use tools such as moz’s keyword explorer, google adwords, or keywordtool.io to give you more long tail phrases related to your idea. particularly for authors, using wikipedia, a related books’ table of contents, course lists, or book reviews are also great sources of insights for best keywords. by now you should have come up with a long list of possible keywords that people might use to find your site. what to do next? narrow the list down to the most relevant keywords you now need to be more specific. if you have it in your list that people use a term such as ‘women boots’ to find your site, you need to use a less competitive keyword such as ‘women’s ankle boots’. this will not only place your blog post higher on search engine results, but will attract the right audience who already know what they are looking for. you can even go further and make it more precise by choosing something like ‘women’s low-heel ankle boots’ for your keyword. preferably double-down or triple-down your keywords by overlapping phrases to ensure the blog post will be visible in more than one keyword search. also remember if you are just starting out and targeting less competitive, low volume keywords to make sure they are not no volume keywords! it’s a good idea to ensure the keywords you choose are not difficult to find by the using semrush keyword difficulty tool. this tool will also show you how much effort you need to put in to beat your competitors. tools such as google keyword planner, moz, or raven tools can also help to measure search volume and competitors. write your keyword-targeted post by now you should have a final list of keywords that you have chosen for your blog. now you need to include them in your blog content. how do you do that appropriately? remember you don’t want to unnaturally place the keyword you have chosen for a particular post, it should read naturally. also avoid keyword stuffing. it will not only make your content unappealing to customers and readers but will also hurt your ranking on search engines. make your content valuable by using keywords wisely throughout your content google knows what keywords to expect in what topic. the keywords should naturally fit into your blog language. don’t overuse the keywords in the text. instead, mix them naturally with related search keywords to enable google to understand what your content. here is how you make your keywords correlate with your topic: use them in your title tag. when doing a video post, use the keywords in the text on the page. include them in the meta tags of your image file, image alt, and meta description. the keywords should be included in the anchor text of your internal linking promote the post on facebook, instagram, and twitter to encourage external linking. how to choose keywords the smart way finding and choosing keywords is as simple as that. however, don’t put so much emphasis on finding the proper keywords that you forget the main goal of your blog; to educate, engage, and add value. publish regular content that relates to your customers’ persona. the right audience will find you. and lastly, do not forget to track how your keywords are performing for you to know what aspect you can change or improve. it’s your turn now! start looking for keywords for your blog today. tweet pin share related posts how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo by kristel staci about the author marion selista marion selista is a life coach and editor at smart pill wiki. her mission is to motivate and enlighten people to live a successful and fulfilling life. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >