start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising mental strength success advertising last updated on november 25, 2019 how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email look around you – how many people do you think are actually happy with the way their lives have shaped up? chances are very few of them. most of us are filled with regrets and angst. we wish we did things differently. if we could go back in time and change our actions or reactions, we would. but the truth is, what’s gone is gone. what you have is the present moment and the good news is that it is never too late to change. after all, we hold the reins of our life and have the power to change its course. so, stop complaining and asking, “how do i change for the better?” because it is time to act. here are 11 little things to start doing today and become a better version of yourself: 1. train your brain to be optimistic everything that life throws at us is not in our control. the only thing we can control are our thoughts, attitude and reactions. would you rather be cynical about the world or adopt a positive mindset and live a more peaceful life instead? being optimistic is not as easy as it sounds. it requires practice and a lot of mental conditioning but it sure is a step forward towards a happier you. so, stop feeding your brain with all the pointless, negative self-talk and replace them with these positive affirmations instead. start a gratitude journal too, it’ll help. in this imperfect world we live in, the least you can do is have hope and believe that the best will happen. 2. focus on what’s working ask people what’s not working in their lives and they can go volumes; but ask them what they are grateful for and they will pause to think. advertising “how do i change for the better by doing this?”, you ask? well, there is a lot of change you can bring about by just changing your perspective. when we focus on the negatives and obsess over what is not going right, we miss out on everything we need to be grateful for. this just adds to the stress and hinders growth. try focusing on what’s going right for a change and you will realize how you end up attracting more of it. 3. take ownership when things don’t go as planned, we are quick to blame the situation, our surroundings and even ourselves but how does that change anything? holding on to failures and resorting to blame games are futile. when you take ownership of your actions, you realize that it is so much easier to let go and move on. you are able to look beyond ‘failures’ and overcome them to start the next chapter. by taking ownership and responsibility, you feel empowered to bring about a positive change in your life – it motivates you and encourages you to push yourself and act on the situation rather than sulking or indulging in self-pity. take a look at this article and learn to take responsibility of what happen to you: recognizing the distinction between blame and responsibility 4. be open to learning we are constantly evolving and there should never be an end to learning. from your career and social life to relationships – having a flexible and open mindset is essential to thrive in every aspect of your life. a close-minded person can never grow because they act from a place of arrogance and superiority. they build barriers around them and have a one-track thought process. on the other hand, being lifelong learners opens you up to so many possibilities, it makes life exciting and lets you look beyond your preconceived notions. you look at situations objectively, are not afraid to challenge your thoughts and show your vulnerable side. advertising here’s how to train your brain to crave lifelong learning (and why it’s good). 5. live your own life most of our problems arise when we compare our lives to those around us without realizing how baseless these comparisons are. everyone has a unique journey, and no one is better off than the other. comparing your life to other people’s makes you anxious and stressed. accept where you are in life, embrace the imperfections and focus on your life because the grass is greener where it is better taken care of. instead of competing with your peers, compete with yourself and strive to grow and become better with every passing day. this article will help you focus on yourself instead of always comparing yourself to others: the more we compare, the more we lose ourselves 6. build a strong relationship with yourself being a better person isn’t just about being good to other people, it’s about being good to yourself first. work towards building a strong relationship with yourself. if that foundation is strong, you tend to be a more secure person and don’t let other people’s thoughts become your life’s reality. practice self-care, learn to put your needs first and accept yourself the way you are. nobody is perfect but perfection should never be the goal. treat yourself as work-in-progress and learn along the way. the only thing that matters is growth and self-improvement, no matter how old you are. this article will inspire you how to love yourself more: how to love yourself, even if no one else does advertising 7. treat people with respect we have all heard the phrase, “treat others the way you want to be treated”. treating people with respect and empathizing with them sows the seeds of a healthy relationship. you surround yourself with positive people who genuinely love and respect you and that certainly is a blooming environment to be in. find it hard to respect people you dislike? this may change your mind: could you still show respect to someone you dislike? would you? 8. learn to forgive forgiving people for their mistakes is a tough job and doesn’t come easy to anyone. how do you let go and forgive someone for wronging you? it takes immense effort and courage to do so but it is important because if not for that, you will just be holding on too much anger and hurt which is impacts your mental health. so, set yourself free and learn to forgive – you will be glad you did. here’s how: how to forgive and live a happy life again (a step-by-step guide) 9. lead a healthy life a healthy mind and healthy body make a happy and better you. be mindful of what you’re eating, your sleeping habits and exercising. adopting a healthy lifestyle leads to better productivity, lesser stress and adds discipline to your life. start leading a healthy lifestyle with these good habits: 74 healthy habits that will drastically improve every aspect of your life advertising 10. set healthy boundaries not everyone around us is a well-wisher. there are some people who are nothing but a source of negativity. don’t feel guilty about keeping them out of your life. self-care is of utmost importance and setting healthy boundaries with toxic people lets you protect yourself. remember – it is not your duty to make it work with everyone. if there is someone who is making you feel terrible or unhappy, you are better off walking away from that relationship. if you find yourself hanging out with toxic people, it’s best to distance yourself from them: 10 toxic persons you should just get rid of 11. don’t take life too seriously many of us take life too seriously – we get bogged down by failures, we consider rejections to be the end of the world, we beat ourselves over our mistakes and we get too caught up in the drudgery of everyday life. thirty or forty years down the line, how will it feel to look back and see that you lived a life of sadness, fear and regret? don’t give rise to such a situation. seize the day and enjoy the present moment because these days won’t come back. here’re 34 ways to live in the moment and grow in the moment. final thoughts the fact that you’re asking “how do i change for the better” is the first step to steer your life in the positive direction. so, make these small changes in your attitude, perception and habits and you will be surprised to see how the road ahead clears out for you. life is what you make of it – the choice is in your hands. more about changing life how to start over and reboot your life when it seems too late do you have to give everything up to get a fresh start? 10 things you can do now to change your life forever why it’s never too late to change your life and live differently featured photo credit: nicolai berntsen via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 things you can do now to change your life forever how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to develop a lifelong learning habit advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how to start over and reboot your life when it seems too late 10 positive affirmations for success that will change your life how much do you need to give up to start over? 34 ways to live in the moment and grow in the moment advertising advertising podcast mental strength advertising last updated on march 26, 2020 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email in this episode of the lifehack show our guest is nicole lovald, former corporate addict turned yogi, life coach, and self-care advocate. she is the author of the book om sweet om: a corporate junkie's search for enlightenment . nicole has a background in counseling veterans, at-risk children, and victims of trauma as she has always been passionate about helping people overcome adversity and change their limiting beliefs into a more progress based mindset. here she shares her insights on how yoga can act as the ultimate form of stress relief and help you change your life. listen to the episode here: view on you tube featured photo credit: lāsma artmane via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.