start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising productivity advertising how to become a person who can visualize results carol morgan dr. carol morgan is the owner of hersidehisside.com, a communication professor, dating & relationship coach, tv personality, speaker, and author. read full profile share pin it tweet share email so you have a dream, but you have no idea how to get there? don’t worry. you’re not alone. many people are in the same boat. they know what they want, but sometimes they don’t even believe it’s possible. so what happens? they either don’t try, or, if they do, they give up before they achieve their goal. if you’re one of those people, here are 7 things you can do to visualize your results and make them happen: 1. focus on what you can do now. let’s say you have no money in savings because you are literally living paycheck-to-paycheck. how is it possible to ever imagine having a few thousand dollars in savings when all you see is money going out the door? you may not think it is. but you don’t have to start big. reach in your purse or pocket and grab that spare change. put it in a jar. make a habit of doing this. if you do it long enough, it will add up. then move up and put a dollar in the jar–then five. if you get a tax refund, stick some of it in savings. i think you see the point. just do something. any little action toward your goal makes a difference in helping you get there. advertising 2. break down your goal into small steps. maybe you want to start your own business. and you might be great at seeing the end result. you get excited about it, but then you realize that your big vision is at least 10 years off. then you get overwhelmed, frustrated, and you convince yourself that you can’t do it. think in terms of baby steps. start by building a website. educate yourself on how to attract clients. slowly, you will make your way toward your end result. remember, it’s not a race. no one is judging you for how fast you get there. 3. turn your steps into a chronological plan. once you have the small steps broken down, prioritize them. maybe you want to lose 50 pounds. you have already completed the first step by eliminating one particular food from your diet that will cut out a lot of calories. then you listed out the other foods you can eliminate and calories you can count. now, for step three, put them on your calendar. for example: “by june 1st, i will have eliminated these three foods from my diet. by july 1st, will be eating 1,700 calories a day.” you get the point. put your goals on a calendar and stick to it. advertising 4. pretend that it has already happened. with any of the three scenarios above, you can act like your goal is already accomplished. get your bank statement out and write in the amount of money you want to see in your savings account. hang it up somewhere. talk to yourself about how awesome it is to have $2,000 in your savings. or pretend that the business you just started is a smashing success. clients are breaking down your doors. or see yourself feeling great after losing all that weight. trick your mind into believing it has already happened. 5. figure out what proof you need that you have achieved your goal. it is so easy to get frustrated and give up. but if you do, you’ll never get where you want to be. how much money do you need in your savings to feel like you are actually making progress? how many clients or website traffic do you need to feel like your business is on its way to success? how many pounds do you need to lose to get excited and feel like you don’t want to give up? it’s up to you. but you need to figure it out so you don’t quit. advertising 6. visualize it. if you are visual person, close your eyes, and see it done. do this in the morning before you get out bed, and when you go to sleep at night. or meditate on it at your convenience. the key is to do this every day. the more you can do it, the better. not only does it get you into the habit of focusing on the end result, it really does trick your subconscious mind into thinking it is reality. if you’re not a visual person, write down affirmations and repeat them every day. however you choose to do it, the key is consistency. keep doing it. 7. talk about it to everyone. telling other people about your goals makes them real. and it represents a commitment. if you tell your friends, “i’m starting a business,” then they will keep asking you how it’s going. or if you want to lose that weight, your friends and family will most likely support you. the more you talk about it, the more you get caught up and excited about the end result. it will go from fantasy to reality. advertising remember, everyone gets discouraged at some point when they try to achieve a goal. it’s normal. but the difference between the people who succeed and the people who don’t is commitment and consistency. they don’t give up. they keep going. you can too, if you follow these seven simple steps. featured photo credit: on a way to horizon/shutterstock via shutterstock.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated advertising advertising more by this author carol morgan dr. carol morgan is the owner of hersidehisside.com, a communication professor, dating & relationship coach, tv personality, speaker, and author. can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? how to become a successful motivational speaker (step-by-step guide) how to handle a cheating spouse how to get out of an abusive relationship and start afresh 18 pieces of marriage advice for a happy and lasting relationship advertising trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques more by this author carol morgan dr. carol morgan is the owner of hersidehisside.com, a communication professor, dating & relationship coach, tv personality, speaker, and author. can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? how to become a successful motivational speaker (step-by-step guide) how to handle a cheating spouse how to get out of an abusive relationship and start afresh 18 pieces of marriage advice for a happy and lasting relationship trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques read next how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.