wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials » how to add a forum in wordpress with bbpress how to add a forum in wordpress with bbpress last updated on december 30th, 2019 by editorial staff 287 shares share tweet share pin bulletin boards and forums are good old reliable tools to build online communities. while there are plenty of open-source forum software, integrating a third-party forum with wordpress can be a mess. that’s where bbpress comes in. in this article, we will show you how to easily add a forum in wordpress with bbpress. what is bbpress? bbpress is a forum software built the wordpress way. it runs on top of wordpress, which is the best website builder in the world. just like wordpress, bbpress is extensible, and you can install add-on plugins to add more functionality to your forums. it is also very light-weight and faster than other popular open-source forum software. what you need to make an online forum with bbpress? if you already have a wordpress website where you want to add a forum, then you can skip this section. on the other hand, if you are just getting started then continue reading. first, you’ll need to sign up for a web hosting account. this is where you will store all the files for your online forum. you’ll also need a domain name. this will be your website’s address on the internet and what users will type in their browsers to find your online forum. normally, website hosting costs $7.99 per month and domain name would cost you around $14.99 per year. this is a lot of money if you are just getting started. luckily, bluehost has agreed to offer wpbeginner users a discount on hosting with a free domain name. basically, you’ll be able to get started for just $2.75 per month. → click here to claim this exclusive bluehost offer ← bluehost is one of the biggest wordpress hosting companies in the world and an officially recommended wordpress hosting provider. once you have signed up for hosting, you can follow our guide on how to make a website for complete installation instructions. after setting up wordpress, you will be ready to install bbpress and start your own online community. how to install bbpress bbpress is available as a wordpress plugin. you can install it like you would install any wordpress plugin. simply log in to your wordpress admin area and go to plugins » add new . search for bbpress and then select bbpress from results. install and activate the plugin. upon activation, you will see the welcome screen for bbpress. creating a forum with bbpress in wordpress once installed, bbpress adds forums, topics and replies menu items in your wordpress admin. first, you need to click on forums » add new link from the menu. this will take you to a screen similar to the wordpress post edit area. provide a title for your forum and enter a little description of it. then press the publish button. you can create as many forums as you need for different discussions and topics. displaying bbpress forum in the front end of wordpress now that you have created a few forums, it is time to display those forums on the front end of your wordpress website. create a new wordpress page. give this page a title, like forum, community, support forums, etc. after that, simply paste the following shortcode in your page: [bbp-forum-index] don’t forget to click on the publish button to save your changes and make your forum page visible on your website. you can now visit the page in a web browser to see a preview of your forums. next, you need to help users find the forum on your website. to do that, let’s put a link to your forum page on top navigation menu. go to appearance » menus and add the forum page to your navigation menu. users can now access the forum index page by clicking on the link in the main menu. integrating bbpress with your wordpress theme in most cases, you would probably want to open your forum for new registrations. to do that, you need to open your website for registrations. simply go to settings » general, and check the box next to “any one can register” to allow registrations on your website. don’t forget to click on the save changes button to store your settings. now that your website is open for registration, the first thing that your forum participants would look for is a registration page. let’s make one. simply create a wordpress page, and give it a title, e.g. register. add shortcode [bbp-register] and publish the page. you can now preview this page. it will show a user registration form to all non-logged in users. another page your users would need is the lost password recovery page. this is where they will be recover their lost passwords. create another wordpress page and give it a title e.g. lost password. after that, add this shortcode [bbp-lost-pass] and publish the page. finally, you need to add a login form to your website so that forum users can easily login from anywhere on your website. bbpress comes with a handful of widgets and one of them is a login form widget. go to appearance » widgets and simply drag and drop login widget to your sidebar or any other widget area. you will be asked to provide the urls for the registration and lost password pages you created earlier. after entering them you need to click on the save button to store your widget settings. now a login form with links to registration and lost password recovery pages will appear in your sidebar. logged in users would see their usernames and a logout link instead of the form. managing bbpress forum settings unlike other popular forum software, bbpress has a very simplified configuration page. to manage settings for your bbpress forums, go to settings » forums page. the default options on this page would work for most forum websites. we’ll take a look at all of them, just in case you want to change anything. the first option you would see here is to ‘automatically give registered visitors the participant forum role’. you can select a user role or uncheck the option to manually assign user roles to each user when they register. the next option adds a 10-second delay between subsequent forum posts to prevent forum flooding and spam. you can increase or decrease the delay period here. the editing option allows users to edit their forum posts 5 minutes after they publish them. you can uncheck this option but that would prevent your users from correcting spelling errors or edit their posts if they missed something. after that, you’ll find the forum features section. from here, you can turn forum features on and off. below that, you’ll see forum display features. from here, you can select a bbpress template, number of posts and topics to display on forum pages and inside the forum rss feed. finally, you’ll see options to select url slugs for different sections and forum pages. slugs are the seo friendly url names used by wordpress. the default url slugs are meaningful and seo friendly out of the box but if you need to change them, then you can do so here. don’t forget to click on the ‘save changes’ button to store your forum settings. user roles in bbpress wordpress comes with its own user role management system which allows you to assign users roles with different permissions. bbpress extends the wordpress user roles by adding its own five pre-defined user roles with different capabilities. 1. keymaster – the website owner or the wordpress administrator is automatically assigned the keymaster role when they install bbpress. a keymaster can delete and create forums, can create, edit, delete all posts, topics, forums. 2. moderators – users with moderator user role have access to moderation tools, which they can use to moderate forums, topics, and posts. 3. participants – this is the default user role, participants can create and edit their own topics and posts, they can favorite and subscribe to topics. 4. spectators – spectators have a read-only access to public forums, topics, and posts. 5. blocked – when a user is blocked all their capabilities are blocked. they can still read publicly viewable topics and posts, but can not participate in the forums. extending and promoting your bbpress forum now that your bbpress forum is all set up and running. it is time to learn how to extend and promote it. let’s start with the appearance first. bbpress works with any wordpress theme and themes can also add custom styles to bbpress. all top wordpress themes come with custom bbpress styles to make your forum look beautiful. for more choices, see our pick of the best wordpress themes for bbpress. next, you would want to add new features to your forum so that you can quickly get new members and grow your online community. the following are some of the plugins that will help you grow your online forum much quickly. 1. rafflepress rafflepress allows you to create viral giveaways and contests in wordpress. these interactive contests and giveaways are a sure-fire way to instantly get a ton of new users to your online forum. see our guide on how to create a viral giveaway contest for more information. 2. memberpress memberpress is the best wordpress membership plugin. it allows you to make money online from your forum by adding subscription layers to your online community. for more information, take a look at our guide on how to make a membership website. 3. monsterinsights want to know which forum topics and discussions are more popular on your website? monsterinsights helps you easily track all your website traffic using google analytics. 4. wpforms wpforms is the best wordpress contact form plugin. it allows you to easily create beautiful forms for your website. you can also use it to create custom login page, user registration page, or to add surveys and polls to your bbpress forum. we hope that this article helped you learn how to add a forum in wordpress and how to install and configure bbpress. you may also want to see our complete wordpress seo guide to help you get even more traffic. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 287 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 186 commentsleave a reply danijel says: aug 9, 2019 at 4:30 pm i set everything up , and login widget, and when click on register i got blank page with this link listed in bar: about:blank#blocked ? do you know how to fix this and what id blocking the option to register. i set in setting the option that everyone can register as subscriber. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 12, 2019 at 10:12 am you may want to try resaving your permalinks using one of the methods in our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-fix-wordpress-posts-returning-404-error/ and should that not work you may need to check through your security plugins to see if one of those could be the root of the issue. reply marc says: jan 14, 2019 at 1:39 pm i have a host gator site , one of the default pages is a blog page. i am interested in converting this blog page to a forum page. can i get a quick overview how this can be done ? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 15, 2019 at 1:52 pm you would edit your menu to link to the forum page of your could not set a posts page if that is what you’re wanting to do. reply christian says: nov 24, 2018 at 6:59 am hi is it possible to just give access to a specific group of members? the members only should be able to read and write within the forum. n christia reply emmanuel viardo says: nov 14, 2018 at 7:54 pm i have a wordpress blog and recently put another registered domain in as an add on domain. how do i install wordpress bb on this add on domain. reply numan says: jul 4, 2018 at 8:49 am hi i want to create a forum but i want to use buddy press is it better than bbpress or which theme will be perfect for it and my last question is should i use subdomain for my forum this article is last updated since 2013 i hope you will write a new one also using other plugins and themes please reply reply pawan kr singh says: jun 15, 2018 at 5:00 am the details above were really user friendly and immensely easy to follow. i have successfully configured my web site using your instructions. thank you so much for such articles. i would additionally wish to learn how to add user account login and registration on my store or blog page. waiting to hear from you soon. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 15, 2018 at 11:30 am hi pawan, for a blog, you can see our article on how to allow users to register on your wordpress site. for online store, you will find the option in your woocommerce settings where you can ask customers to register before checkout. reply dilfgem says: mar 29, 2018 at 10:54 am good but i am running entertainment blog before so i want to add a forum page there , please how can i display the forum in my entertainment landing page so people will just click on the forum name then will now refer them to forum where registration or log in will take place reply patricia may says: jan 25, 2018 at 12:13 am i already have user registration on my site, how can i set up bbpress so my registered users dont have to register again for the forum. thanks reply joe says: jan 6, 2018 at 7:04 pm thanks! huge help! now let’s see if i can get a community built =) reply yogen basnet says: dec 12, 2017 at 11:32 am i can start off by saying, thank you so much for this nice piece of information. i like bbpress but i love question2answer. this is the reason why i am unable to decide which one would be more community driven. feature wise i think question2answer rocks but support and integration wise bbpress is the best. could you write your view on this so that i can analyze and make a rightful decision? reply mick e says: nov 30, 2017 at 10:45 am can i place the forum in a members area (page) , this is password protected reply juan ruiz says: nov 16, 2017 at 3:59 pm does this plugin is compatible with optimizepress theme? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: nov 17, 2017 at 8:39 am hi juan, it is compatible with all standard compliant wordpress themes. you can also checkout our list of best wordpress themes for bbpress. reply muazzam says: oct 28, 2017 at 12:36 pm very simple and easy tutorial i have followed all this procedures but if i click the registar button it shows nothing found on the page. please how can i add the registration? reply derek says: oct 20, 2017 at 6:23 pm good helpful article – i am looking forward to having a go at it reply martin rathmanner says: sep 30, 2017 at 5:13 pm hi! my page uses wp-members to limit some content to registered users only if i show the forum pages only to “members” – do they need to register to bbpress again to post/create? thanks reply mo says: sep 23, 2017 at 6:30 pm is there a wp plugin that can show thumbnails of post content previews in the admin panel? i am familiar with the plugin ‘featured image admin thumb’,but it is not what i need. i am looking for a similar concept, however i need to preview the actual post content via a thumbnail so i can quickly review actual post content. any suggestions? thanks! reply nana kwenu says: sep 6, 2017 at 3:28 am am grateful for the article, god bless you. after following this article to create a forum with bbpress, my register page and lost password page comes empty, what should i do please. thanks reply peter says: aug 2, 2017 at 9:45 pm the instructions are very clear but registration doesn’t work. if i visit my site and try to register i get the following error: “authorization required this server could not verify that you are authorized to access the document requested. either you supplied the wrong credentials (e.g., bad password), or your browser doesn’t understand how to supply the credentials required. ” i’ve been working on this problem long before i came to this site. i’ve been to bbpress support forums. people say it’s a server issue and to contact my host. i’ve been to my host and they are no help. they referred me to the bbpress forums. i told them i had been to the forums and then they asked me “is bbpress a plugin which requires outgoing connection from the server to it’s api?” i think they asked that question because they knew i wouldn’t know the answer and it would end the conversation. do you know the answer to their question? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 2, 2017 at 11:44 pm hi peter, no, it does not require an outgoing connection. reply jamal smith says: jul 18, 2017 at 9:48 am hello. thank you for this super clear explanation. somehow i don’t get the email with my password. have i done something wrong ? and also is it possible to change the language? thank you reply wpbeginner support says: jul 18, 2017 at 8:30 pm hello jamal, did you check the spam folder? if it isn’t there, then wordpress probably failed to send email. see our guide on how to reset wordpress password using phpmyadmin. yes you can change language on settings page inside wordpress admin area. reply sheldon mcmeekan says: jul 19, 2017 at 11:15 am i’m finding the same issue. i get the admin email saying a new user registered, but the new user never receives their password email to be able to use the site. nothing goes into spam. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 20, 2017 at 9:58 pm hi sheldon, for more information, please take a look at our article on how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. marjan says: may 2, 2017 at 10:03 am i’ve followed the instructions but oddly enough when someone registers they have acces to the wordpress dashboard (and see the black bar above the site). i only want them to have access to the forum. where did i go wrong?? reply wendy says: mar 28, 2017 at 2:49 am thank you for this information. is there an additional plug-in or way to create forum categories. category a forum 1 forum 2 category b forum 3 forum 4 reply kaushal bhatt says: mar 11, 2017 at 2:40 am thanks for such a well described and insightful post. reply inna says: mar 1, 2017 at 8:24 am actually it’s hard to build something unique using a theme. i couldn’t sort it out. a friend of mine showed me a good theme, i tried it out and managed to create something. turned out that it required a bit more effort to create a good site. reply heather brooks says: feb 11, 2017 at 10:15 am excellent post. this article made the difference for me. i literally followed it step by step, and got my forum up and running in less than 15 minutes. no video needed, in my opinion. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 12, 2017 at 4:12 pm hi heather, thanks for the kind words. we are glad you found it help. don’t forget to sign up for our free newsletter or follow us on facebook for more wordpress tips and tutorials. reply ghulam says: feb 3, 2017 at 12:00 pm this article do not have any video???? if it has then please upload it. reply von says: jan 26, 2017 at 7:30 pm this really helped thanks. eternally grateful. setting up my forum was a breeze and it was just because of your grand simple and thorough help. thanks again. reply anudeep ananth says: jan 17, 2017 at 1:07 am is there a way we can add the feature for users to include audio and images in forums ? reply bangi says: nov 26, 2016 at 5:18 pm very helpful and precise. reply martin says: nov 15, 2016 at 7:43 am hello, i am using pilotpress to run a membership site and i would like to include a forum without people having to re-log in (as they have done it via pilotpress). do you have any suggestion for doing this integration? thanks! martin reply williams says: nov 12, 2016 at 5:21 pm thanks, very helpful reply iwuala valentine says: oct 25, 2016 at 1:23 pm thanks so much because you really help me, am so much in love with all your posts because the are all helpful and straight to the topic reply showhan ahmed says: oct 16, 2016 at 1:33 am nice article. thanks so much. reply joseph says: sep 17, 2016 at 6:26 am please how do i paste the code in the page? reply michael solomon says: aug 21, 2016 at 2:03 pm thanks for this article. please if i click on any topic on my forum it usually take me back or rather redirect me to my main home page. reply isaac says: jun 16, 2016 at 11:24 am 1. please i have a wordpress blog before now and i want to create forum as a category on the site.. will that be a good idea? 2. when i choose the option anybody can register, will it not affect my blog too because i am the only one that wants be posting on the blog, while forum anybody can post or register. reply renu bakshi says: may 2, 2016 at 11:05 pm for my site i am using woedpress 4.5.1 version and modern blogger pro child theme of genesis. i have installed and activated bbpress. but bbpress has not added forums, topics and replies menu items in my wordpress admin. so, i can’t make forums. please help….. reply glen says: apr 14, 2016 at 11:25 am is it possible to setup multiple forum pages? e.g one forum page for each admin member? reply swagatam says: mar 25, 2016 at 12:29 am thanks for this detailed info! i had a question which is perhaps not yet answered anywhere so far. i have a website hosted by hostgator but it’s operated as a custom domain from my earlier blogger interface. i am interested to use my wordpress.org software which is lying idle in hostagtor to create a forum by using the method explained in the above article. kindly advise, would this be possible without having a prior wordpress.org site. thanks reply projjal says: mar 8, 2016 at 9:33 am thank you very much for this tutorial. now i have built my forum. however i am not sure that should i noindex-follow my forum or index and follow my forum? do let me know. reply vicky says: feb 8, 2016 at 1:57 am how to add theme in bbpress reply carolyn says: jan 30, 2016 at 11:22 am thank you for this clear, concise manual for setting up bbpress. your instructions were far superior to the guide provided on bbpress website. i’ll be reading your blog regularly now. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 31, 2016 at 5:14 pm glad you found it helpful. reply mohanad says: jan 14, 2016 at 1:36 pm hi, i installed the forum and it is ok when i use it with my log in, but when i want to register as a new user it shows only an empty page!. what can i do to solve this issue?? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 14, 2016 at 1:45 pm try updating your permalinks. go to settings > permalinks and click on save changes button without making any changes. reply seth says: jan 12, 2016 at 5:23 pm your post on how to add a forum…bbpress was very helpful and quickly got my forum all set up. a couple extra questions: – as shown, i added both a registration page and a lost password page, and inserted the proper shortcodes, and i added the login widget to my right sidebar. my understanding is that a new visitor to my site who wants to subscribe to & post on the forums, will see a username & login box in the right sidebar. plus the links register and lost password. if they click register and fill in their choice of user/pass, will it then automatically be sent to my email for approval & verification? – as keymaster, when i want to start a new topic in one of my forums, i click on that forum title and it takes me to a page with an empty title & text editing box. is that what subscribed users will see too, so that they may also easily get to start new topics? — on the forums index page, how do we get the forum titles in that nice teal-blue color instead of black. it is taking the titles from forums i created, and the wp text editor allows you to select text color for the content body text, but not for the title box? reply kelly drury says: dec 11, 2015 at 4:51 pm i have installed bbpress on my website. i want to allow automatic registration. i clicked on “anyone can register” and set this for “participant” level. however, my website still requires users to enter their name and email address and then wait for an email with a link to a long password, etc. this is too cumbersome. i assume this is the manual sign up. if so, how do i get rid of this? in the automatic registration, can users simply establish their own user name and password and automatically be registered? reply julie maxwell says: nov 10, 2015 at 10:55 am hi, i have it set up but the people that are requesting membership are not getting the emails. plus when i approve them on the backside, they are not showing up under members. also, do i need both bbpress and buddy press or just one? and which is the best one. julie reply wpbeginner support says: nov 10, 2015 at 11:22 am for emails please see our guide on how to fix wordpress not sending emails issue. bbpress and buddypress are both different software. they can work together too. you need to set them up based on your requirements. reply julie maxwell says: nov 10, 2015 at 11:25 am thank you. which is the better software? also why am i not seeing approved members in the list? reply kimberly says: nov 22, 2015 at 9:15 pm they are two different things that can run separately/independently. bbpress is a forum and buddypress is more like social network and discussion. you can have both or just one. i started off with both, but now i am not so sure i need buddypress. can’t answer the other question….since i am just now installing it. brian says: oct 26, 2015 at 12:43 pm hi, is it possible to create a forum where user access is only allowed by a certain subscription level defined in the membership rules of a wordpress site. for example a visitor purchases a level 3 subscription and by doing so they now have access to what is effectively a private forum. hope that makes sense and thanks in advance. reply doug says: oct 18, 2015 at 1:16 pm hi, i have followed your instructions and all went well until i published my forum (index) page. the formatting is all wrong. i don’t know if it’s due to my theme or some other reason. for your info., i am using a 3rd party child theme on a genesis framework. also, i have installed the “bbpress genesis extend” plugin, but that hasn’t helped. thanks, doug reply wpbeginner support says: oct 18, 2015 at 6:49 pm you can switch to a default wordpress theme to see if it resolves the issue. if it does, then you may want to contact your theme’s support. reply banks says: oct 5, 2015 at 1:37 pm hello admin,i created the forum page succesfully,but when i post a new topic,its doesnt appear in the forum page. any help? reply wpbeginner support says: oct 5, 2015 at 3:19 pm you also need to create a forum first and then add a topic. the forum index page, displays forums not the topics. reply banks says: oct 5, 2015 at 4:19 pm okay thanks,so how can i locate the topic that i have published? reply pete chapman says: sep 26, 2015 at 2:52 pm great forum plugin. very easy to use, but is there anyway to lock a forum post ? reply rahul says: aug 27, 2015 at 6:50 am why dont you have installed any good comment system…………something social reply « 1 2 3 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) media temple coupon get 20% off on all media temple hosting plans. all in one seo pro coupon get 50% off all in one seo pack pro, the most popular wordpress seo plugin in the market. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.