authority seo 2.0 blog about tools contact how long does it take to start getting blog traffic? by coral ouellette 12 comments last updated on: march 4, 2019 almost everyone who starts a new website for the first time asks this question: how long does it take before you start getting traffic to your site? i remember when i built my very first blog, i was checking my analytics everyday. literally every single day i would log into my analytics to see if anybody had come to see my empty site. it might seem silly to experienced bloggers, but it’s actually a common practice for people who are new to this. like others, i believed that once i published a site on the internet, people came to visit it. i compared it to offline shops in the real world. if you built an ice cream store on any street, surely at least one person would walk in right? what are the chances that nobody visits your shop? sadly, the internet doesn’t work that way. you can think of it more like hundreds of thousands of people opening an ice cream shop all next to each other in the middle of the desert, and hoping that someone just happens to be walking through it, and then amongst the unlimited number options, chooses yours and walks in. might sound brutal, but that’s actually a close analogy. there are thousands of new blogs being built every single day. there are over 5 million blog posts published everyday. the majority of them will never see a single visitor aside from themselves and friends and family. so how long does it take? if you’re asking this question, you’re not thinking about this in the right way. you can start getting traffic on day 1. you can theoretically get thousands of visitors to your blog within days of launching. for example, let’s say you or someone you know has a twitter account with millions of followers. all it takes is a tweet or two pointing them to your new blog and you’ll get a flood of traffic. another example: you publish your first blog post, and submit it to reddit. somehow, it gets voted up to the front page. you’ll get more traffic to your site than you can handle. it’ll probably crash your web server. these all may sound great to you. but the problem is, these are short-term solutions to getting traffic. plus, these aren’t exactly repeatable strategies you can rely on. the best long-term solution to getting consistent traffic to your blog is seo. how long does seo take? if you’re wondering how long it takes to get search traffic to your blog, once again the answer is “it depends.” it depends on how many backlinks you’ve built to your site. it depends on how strong these links are. it depends on what keywords you’re targeting with your blog posts (low-competition keywords rank easier than high-competition keywords). the average time it takes for a new blog to get traction in the search engines is around 3 to 6 months. this is assuming that you’re publishing high quality content consistently, and you’re out there building backlinks to those articles. the sandbox new sites take awhile before starting to rank in google (usually 3 to 6 months, sometimes up to a year). this delaying effect is often called “the google sandbox”. it’s to prevent spammers from throwing up new blogs to rank for big keywords and make a quick profit. it used to work in the past, but not today. it doesn’t matter how skilled you are in seo, the sandbox is consistent for every new site. you always have to go through it. it’s frustrating for a lot of people who just want to see results right away. imagine putting in a ton of work for 3 months straight and seeing no results. but if you’re like me, and repeatedly build new niche sites, you come to respect and expect the sandbox. for me, i don’t mind the sandbox at all. blogs are a long-term play for me anyways. there’s really no need to bicker about not seeing results in the first few months because i know that eventually i can grow it to something much bigger. what i’m trying to say is, there’s no need to fuss over your traffic and rankings. stay motivated and just stick to your strategy and continue working, and trust that your seo and blogging strategy is a good one. conclusion so how long does it take to get blog traffic? seo is the most reliable, repeatable, and consistent traffic source for long-term growth of your blog. just know that for new blogs, it can take up to a year before you start seeing significant traffic numbers from google. other traffic methods, like social media and community sites, are essentially instant. if executed properly, you can get traffic immediately to your blog. unfortunately, these traffic sources are short-lived. you’ll see a spike in traffic one day, and the next day it’ll be back to zero. plus, these are not repeatable strategies that you can do over and over again. therefore, the best traffic strategy is to focus on seo (you may want to check out this 3-month blogging plan as well). publish really high-quality content, and build a lot of strong links. if you do, eventually you’re going to see your rankings and traffic start to surge and grow month after month. facebook twitter pinterest you might also like... should i use wordpress posts or pages for my blog? practice makes perfect: how to master the art of blogging how long does it take you to write a 500 word article? 12 comments reply myfinancekits october 2, 2018 at 4:32 am it’s like you were reading my mind when writing this article. i started my blog about two years ago but the traction is still somehow low. although mine is high targeted keywords. however, i am not perturbed as it is a long term plan kind of a thing reply chris lee october 3, 2018 at 5:46 pm that’s great to hear 🙂 reply carlos february 22, 2019 at 9:12 am i totally agree with your answer’s. i most say for me getting search traffic and quality baclinks to a blog is the most difficult thing to do. thanks a lot for sharing this wonderful post. reply raghav june 22, 2019 at 3:59 pm hi chris, your article is very helpful with lot of useful information, i have got a kick start for link building and your tone is resonating to me. especially your articles on 3 months blogging, and build a lot of strong links are a bonus to me. thank you reply mayank kumar april 3, 2019 at 11:23 am i have two more questions- 1. what kind of content is considered as great content? 2. how many blog posts one need to write so that he/she can get to see significant results? hope to hear from you soon. thanks! warm regards mayank kumar reply chris lee april 8, 2019 at 12:18 pm hey mayank, 1. i wrote a little more about that here: https://www.rankxl.com/reasons-why-your-page-isnt-ranking/ 2. there is no magic number. but when your blog is brand new, i would say 2-3 per week is a good number that hits a lot of keywords. reply newtodesign april 12, 2019 at 4:26 pm great read mate, i have started 5 or more blogs back then and gave up within 6moths or so as they not getting any traffic from google… so the advice to the new bloggers is if you are starting a blog… give it some time… minimum 1 year before giving up on it. reply chris lee april 12, 2019 at 5:15 pm fully agree! reply edwin reyes june 10, 2019 at 2:29 am yeah i just started my blog, crazymyworld.com very little traffic. yet i’m not going to quit. i actually welcome the challenge. if things are too easy, then you don’t learn or grow and it won’t be entertaining. reply scout (let's go scoutside) june 4, 2019 at 12:16 am great article. i rebranded/re-lauched my blog to a more useful platform (less personal blog, more informative) in early may 2019, and i must admit i’ve been a bit impatient on the growth time. however with a bit of research i’ve learned that, on average, 6-12 months is a great window for traffic in many respects (such as using pinterest, or getting ranked, etc). just got to keep working hard and hustling 😀 reply bartek june 5, 2019 at 1:12 pm thank you for your article, it gives me hope that my work is not wasted. i published several articles on my blog, the first one in december 2018. can you say anything about numbers of organic searches i get since then (i published them below from google analytics)? it grows slowly, but could it grow faster? or is this the sandbox effect and it just looks like that for new blogs? jan – 2 searches feb – 11 mar – 12 apr – 27 may – 60 reply maxim dsouza july 23, 2019 at 2:57 am seo traffic takes a long time these days as you said. one one end it is a good thing because people cannot rise up to the top of the rankings quickly. it prevents spam results and new websites taking over serps using some blackhat techniques. on the other hand though, it takes a lot of patience and discipline to stick to doing what needs to be done without seeing any results. leave a reply cancel reply zero to 100k with seo a free 5-part seo email course that will show you step-by-step how to grow traffic from zero to 100,000 visitors per month (with search). sign up for free zero to 100k with seo a free 5-part seo email course that will show you step-by-step how to grow traffic from zero to 100,000 visitors per month (with search). sign me up © 2019 rankxl. all rights reserved. | contact | twitter zero to 100k with seo free 5-part mini-course. enter your email to get lesson #1. email* send me the first lesson enter your email below to get the zero to 100k mini-course email* send me the first lesson