home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership how to overcome your fear of public speaking michael and megan 00:36:02 download transcript in this episode, we discuss something that’s very important for leadership—public speaking. many leaders—probably most—are terrified of doing it. unfortunately, as a leader, you really can’t avoid it. you are expected to speak at team meetings, presentations, even outside events, but most people feel really inadequate and underprepared. we’re going to solve that for you with three actions you can take to finally conquer your fear of public speaking. in fact, this may grow to become something you actually enjoy. in this episode, you’ll discover— the one shift that radically changed michael’s approach to public speaking. how megan overcame crippling fear and began speaking regularly. practical steps for rewriting your mental scripts. how to use music as a psychological trigger to prepare yourself for speaking. suggestions for finding the support you need to succeed in this area. the role anxiety plays in our performance, and how to manage it. resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe scorre conference posted on tuesday, february 25, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed