blog how to blogging guide tech news more android & ios pc & laptop windows blogger / wordpress seo sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search xtechkr blog how to blogging guide tech news more android & ios pc & laptop windows blogger / wordpress seo how to run qbasic on android phones by xtechkr 0 share11 tweet share pin2 share 13 shares how to run qbasic on android phones. run qbasic on your android device. qbasic (quick beginners all-purpose symbolic instruction code) is a simple programming language which helps you code and make simple programs. table of content 1 how to run qbasic on android phones 1.1 now, let’s start programming! 1.1.1 # step 1:- 1.1.2 # step 2:- 1.1.3 # step 3:- 1.1.4 # step 4:- 1.1.5 # step 5:- how to run qbasic on android phones qbasic (quick beginners all-purpose symbolic instruction code) is a simple programming language. it was made and launched in 1964 by john g. kemenny and thomas e. kurtz. qbasic is now owned by microsoft. qbasic stands for quick beginners all-purpose symbolic instruction code. it has simple commands like cls, let, input, print, if…then, for…next etc. qbasic has character user interface (cui). it is similar to ms-dos. almost all the microsoft os can run qbasic. android is a linux-based mobile operating system. android users enjoy many advanced features that are not available on pcs. ever wondered how you can get qbasic for android? how can you run qbasic and qbasic programmes on your android? there is no qbasic application on google play store and on other app stores too. though there are no qbasic applications, there are many android dos emulators. writing and running programme is simple with afreebox. here in this tutorial, we will use afreebox to run qbasic on our android devices. afreebox is an android dos emulator, which will help us run qbasic on our android device. you can use other android dos emulators like free dosbox too. now, let’s start programming! # step 1:- the first thing you will have to do is download afreebox (android dosbox) and install it on your android device. download qr-code afreebox developer: fishstix price: free # step 2:- after it is installed, you can open it and explore the app. the font may be too small, but it is readable. phones having a small screen might have problems understanding the text. # step 3:- you will need a .exe file of qbasic to run on your android. you can find this executable file of qbasic on your pc if you have qbasic on your pc. generally, the name of the executable file of qbasic will be qb.exe. if it is there on your pc then it’s fine, send it to your android device via usb cabel or anything which you find easy and convenient. if you do not have it then download it via this link. copy executable file of qbasic to your sd card. make a folder named “qbasic” and move the qb.exe file to the folder which you just created. # step 4:- open afreebox # step 5:- type the command ‘cls’ and press enter. now, start typing the following commands: – type in mount d /sdcard/qbasic with this command, /sdcard/qbasic will be mounted as the local directory. note that there is a space between d and / – type in d: you will be taken to d: directory i.e. your sd card; c: is your phone memory and d: is your sd card. – type the name of the qbasic application present inside the qbasic folder. if you had downloaded the file via my link, then its name is qb.exe. if it’s qb.exe, then type in qb.exe hit press enter. now, your qbasic window will open. it will be a little bit difficult for navigating and typing things. but slowly you will get habituated. hope you liked this. see you in the next article! share11 tweet share pin2 share 13 shares subscribe to our newsletter! "it's all about android, ios, pc, gaming, rumors, blogging and tech news" subscribe! you have successfully subscribed! join our mailing list to receive the latest news and updates from our team. previous articletop ten best [addictive] games in android to play in 2020 next articlebest wifi names collection for router ssid [funny wifi names] xtechkr https://www.xtechkr.com my name is kris regmi [xtechkr]. i'm the founder and owner of xtechkr. i am a student interested in blogging. xtechkr is basically a site where i post post’s about android, pc, gaming and much more. for now, i am studying in little angels' school. i have started this site not for profit but as a passion of mine. i heartily welcome everyone and thanks for giving time to visit my site. i am really happy to see you here! leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. about us xtechkr is a tech site where we provide you tech solutions. it is basically a platform where you can learn about android, pc, how to, rumors, games, tips, tricks, tech news and more. a simple blog that help with wordpress, seo, making money, blogging, gaming, how to, tips and tricks etc. follow us about us contact us disclaimer privacy policy terms of services © xtechkr - all rights reserved