nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop get inspired to travel a dutch proverb goes “he who is outside his door has the hardest part of his journey behind him.” planning a trip and being on the road is a lot easier than you think. it’s the decision to take that step out the door that is the hardest part. it requires the most change. you’re leaving your old life behind for a new one. i know what it is like because i made the same decision when i started. but you shouldn’t let fear hold you back. and, below, are some uplifting and inspiring posts to help you take that first step out the door. top articles to help you get inspired! everyone says i’m running away why it’s never the perfect time to travel 13 books that will give you serious wanderlust 8 ways to stay motivated to travel why cynics will always be haters and how to prove them wrong how to change the “i’m too poor to travel” mindset & say yes to travel more articles about getting inspired to travel don’t have (travel) regrets 7 ways to scratch the travel itch without traveling introducing the nomadic network! what does travel mean to you? 11 travel podcasts that will give you serious wanderlust rediscovering the lost art of travelread more posts on this topic ----> i want more info on… getting inspired saving for my trip planning my trip getting the right gear finding cheap airfare finding accommodation dealing with life on the road saving money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site