menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: etiquette, featured, relationships & family, social skills aom team • april 30, 2019 last updated: march 11, 2020 the complete guide to giving a great handshake whether you’re first meeting someone or greeting them for the hundredth time, a good handshake is important. a strong shake conveys confidence, strength, warmth, honesty, and a host of other good character traits. the fact that well-executed handshakes create a positive first impression isn’t just anecdotally true, either, but has even been born out by several research studies. so if you want to learn how to impress compadres and strangers alike, we offer this complete multi-media guide to giving a great handshake. how to give a great handshake: an aom instructional film the full-text instructions giving a successful and confident handshake boil down to these 3 keys: how you do it when you do it where you do it 1. how make sure your handshake is firm and not a dead fish grip. however, you don’t want to crush the other person’s hand with a death grip. go for the “web touch.” you want the webbing between your thumb and index finger to meet the same spot on the other person’s hand. make sure you don’t have food or grease on your hands. you want the person to remember you, not what you ate. if your hands are sweaty, give them a quick nonchalant wipe on your pants. when you offer your hand, look the person in the eye and smile. 2. when a good handshake requires good timing. at a party or social event, make sure to shake the host’s hand when arriving and leaving. shake hands with anyone you’re meeting for the first time, as well friends, family, and acquaintances with whom you don’t feel close enough for hugging to seem appropriate. many people avoid offering handshakes because they’re afraid of being left hanging. if you’re not sure if someone will notice your offer, extend your hand anyways. most of the time people will notice your handshake offer and quickly grasp your hand. so what if you are left hanging? i hate when this happens, especially when everyone but the person with whom you were trying to shake hands saw the rejection. don’t feel embarrassed. the problem isn’t that the other person doesn’t think you’re important, but simply that you’re timing was off. remember the following tips: don’t offer a handshake if the other person is engrossed in conversation with someone else. don’t approach someone from the side with your extended hand. it’s hard to see. audibly greet the person to get their attention and then offer your hand. also be aware of varying social norms. most cultures have different customs for when and if to shake hands. in our culture, for example, you typically want to wait to see if a woman offers her hand first, instead of initiating the shake yourself. in other cultures, shaking hands with a woman is never appropriate. be aware of these and other cultural differences, especially when you travel. 3. where handshakes are good everywhere! make sure to shake plenty of hands when you go to any social gathering, religious function (again, being sensitive to varying customs), family reunion, wedding, etc. be liberal with your handshakes, and you’ll perfect the art in no time. your 60-second illustrated crib sheet related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// 18 at-home date ideas how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy