start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising lifestyle featured advertising last updated on september 3, 2019 how to find your passion and live a fulfilling life leo babauta founder of zen habits and expert in habits building and goals achieving. read full profile share pin it tweet share email if you could do one thing to transform your life, i would highly recommend it be to find something you’re passionate about, and do it for a living. now, this isn’t as easy as it sounds, but it’s well worth the effort. if you dread going to your job, or find yourself constantly lacking motivation, or find what you’re doing dull and repetitive, you need to start looking for a new job. staying in your current job will not only continue to make you unhappy, but you are not realizing your full potential in life. imagine this instead: you get up early, jumping out of bed, excited to go to work. you might put in more hours than the average person, but it doesn’t seem difficult to you, because your work hours just zoom right by. you are often in that state of mind, often referred to as “flow,” where you can lose track of the world and time, losing yourself in the task at hand. work is not work as many people refer to it, but something that is fun and interesting and exciting. it’s not a “job” but a passion. advertising if you’ve got a job you dislike, or even hate, this will sound like a pipe dream to you. and if you never put in the effort to find what you’re passionate about, you’re right: such a thing will never be possible. but dare to dream, dare to imagine the possibilities, and dare to actually search for what you love, and it is not only a possibility, but a probability. so what should you do? how to find your passion in life? here are some suggestions: 1. ask yourself: is there something you already love doing? do you have a hobby, or something you loved doing as a child, but never considered it as a possibility? whether it’s reading comic books, collecting something, making something, creating or building, there is probably a way you could do it for a living. open a comic book shop, or create a comic book site online. if there’s already something you love doing, you’re ahead of the game. now you just need to research the possibilities of making money from it. 2. find out what you spend hours reading about for myself, when i get passionate about something, i’ll read about it for hours on end. i’ll buy books and magazines. i’ll spend days on the internet finding out more. advertising there may be a few possibilities here for you … and all of them are possible career paths. don’t close your mind to these topics. look into them. 3. brainstorm nothing comes to mind right away? well, get out a sheet of paper, and start writing down ideas. anything that comes to mind, write it down. look around your house, on your computer, on your bookshelf, for inspirations, and just write them down. there are no bad ideas at this stage. write everything down, and evaluate them later. 4. ask around, and surf for possibilities ask other people for ideas. see what others have discovered as their passions. look all over the internet for ideas. the more possibilities you find, the more likely your chances of finding your true passion. 5. don’t quit your job just yet if you find your calling, your passion, don’t just turn in your resignation tomorrow. it’s best to stay in your job while you’re researching the possibilities. if you can do your passion as a side job, and build up the income for a few months or a year, that’s even better. it gives you a chance to build up some savings (and if you’re going into business for yourself, you’ll need that cash reserve), while practicing the skills you need. see below for more. advertising 6. give it a try first it’s best to actually test your new idea before jumping into it as a career. do it as a hobby or side job at first, so that you can see if it’s really your true calling. you may be passionate about it for a few days, but where the rubber meets the road is whether you’re passionate about it for at least a few months. if you pass this test, you have probably found it. 7. do as much research as possible know as much about your passion as possible. if this has been a passion for awhile, you may have already been doing this. at any rate, do even more research. read every website possible on the topic, and buy the best books available. find other people, either in your area or on the internet, who do what you want to do for a living, and quiz them about the profession. how much do they make? what training and education did they need? what skills are necessary? how did they get their start? what recommendations do they have? advertising often you’ll find that people are more than willing to give advice. 8. practice, and practice, and practice some more don’t go into it with amateur skill level. if you want to make money — to be a professional — you need to have professional skills. get very good at your future career and you will make money at it. practice for hours on end. if it’s something you love, the practice should be something you want to do. 9. never quit trying can’t find your passion at first? give up after a few days and you’re sure to fail. keep trying, for months on end if necessary, and you’ll find it eventually. thought you found your passion but you got tired of it? no problem! start over again and find a new passion. there may be more than one passion in your lifetime, so explore all the possibilities. found your passion but haven’t been successful making a living at it? don’t give up. keep trying, and try again, until you succeed. success doesn’t come easy, so giving up early is a sure way to fail. keep trying, and you’ll get there. what i’ve outlined here is a lot of work … but it will be the best investment you’ve ever made. follow your passion, and you will be truly happy and incredibly fulfilled. i wish you the wildest successes of your wildest dreams! more about finding passion 14 amazing things that happen when you live your passion 10 reasons why following your passion is more important than money 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams featured photo credit: dewet willemse via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 14 amazing things that happen when you live your passion how to be a genuine expert in your field real passion will never die out? false. advertising advertising more by this author leo babauta founder of zen habits and expert in habits building and goals achieving. the gentle art of saying no simple productivity: 10 ways to do more by focusing on the essentials how to find your passion and live a fulfilling life what to do in free time? 20 productive ways to use the time how to pare your to-do list down to the essentials advertising trending in featured 1 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques 2 how to stay motivated and reach your big goals in life 3 how to break out of your comfort zone 4 back to basics: capture your ideas 5 how to motivate yourself: 13 simple ways to try now more by this author leo babauta founder of zen habits and expert in habits building and goals achieving. the gentle art of saying no simple productivity: 10 ways to do more by focusing on the essentials how to find your passion and live a fulfilling life what to do in free time? 20 productive ways to use the time how to pare your to-do list down to the essentials trending in featured 1 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques 2 how to stay motivated and reach your big goals in life 3 how to break out of your comfort zone 4 back to basics: capture your ideas 5 how to motivate yourself: 13 simple ways to try now read next hate your job but don’t know what to do? check this to make up your mind face adversity with a smile the gentle art of saying no what is speed reading and how to successfully learn it advertising advertising productivity featured advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques dustin wax read full profile share pin it tweet share email note-taking is one of those skills that rarely gets taught. almost everyone assumes either that taking good notes comes naturally or, that someone else must have already taught about how to take notes. then, we sit around and complain that our colleagues don’t know how to take notes effectively. i figure it’s about time to do something about that. whether you’re a student or a mid-level professional, the ability to take effective, meaningful notes is a crucial skill. not only do good notes help us recall facts and ideas we may have forgotten, the act of writing things down helps many of us to remember them better in the first place. one of the reasons people have trouble taking effective notes is that they’re not really sure what notes are for. i think a lot of people, students and professionals alike, attempt to capture a complete record of a lecture, book, or meeting in their notes — to create, in effect, minutes. this is a recipe for failure. trying to get every last fact and figure down like that leaves no room for thinking about what you’re writing and how it fits together. if you have a personal assistant, by all means, ask him or her to write minutes; if you’re on your own, though, your notes have a different purpose to fulfill. the purpose of note-taking is simple: to help you work better and more quickly. this means your notes don’t have to contain everything, they have to contain the most important things. and if you’re focused on capturing everything, you won’t have the spare mental “cycles” to recognize what’s truly important. which means that later, when you’re studying for a big test or preparing a term paper, you’ll have to wade through all that extra garbage to uncover the few nuggets of important information? table of contents what to write down 3 powerful note-taking techniques 1. outlining 2. mind-mapping 3. the cornell system the bottom line more note-taking tips what to write down your focus while taking notes should be two-fold. first, what’s new to you? there’s no point in writing down facts you already know. if you already know the declaration of independence was written and signed in 1776, there’s no reason to write that down. anything you know you know, you can leave out of your notes. second, what’s relevant? what information is most likely to be of use later, whether on a test, in an essay, or in completing a project? focus on points that directly relate to or illustrate your reading (which means you’ll have to have actually done the reading…). the kinds of information to pay special attention to are: advertising 1. dates of events dates allow you to create a chronology, putting things in order according to when they happened, and understand the context of an event. for instance, knowing isaac newton was born in 1643 allows you to situate his work in relation to that of other physicists who came before and after him, as well as in relation to other trends of the 17th century. 2. names of people being able to associate names with key ideas also helps remember ideas better and, when names come up again, to recognize ties between different ideas whether proposed by the same individuals or by people related in some way. 3. theories or frameworks any statement of a theory or frameworks should be recorded — they are the main points most of the time. 4. definitions like theories, these are the main points and, unless you are positive you already know the definition of a term, should be written down. keep in mind that many fields use everyday words in ways that are unfamiliar to us. 5. arguments and debates any list of pros and cons, any critique of a key idea, both sides of any debate or your reading should be recorded. this is the stuff that advancement in every discipline emerges from, and will help you understand both how ideas have changed (and why) but also the process of thought and development of the matter of subject. advertising 6. images whenever an image is used to illustrate a point, a few words are in order to record the experience. obviously it’s overkill to describe every tiny detail, but a short description of a painting or a short statement about what the class, session or meeting did should be enough to remind you and help reconstruct the experience. 7. other stuff just about anything a professor writes on a board should probably be written down, unless it’s either self-evident or something you already know. titles of books, movies, tv series, and other media are usually useful, though they may be irrelevant to the topic at hand. i usually put this sort of stuff in the margin to look up later (it’s often useful for research papers, for example). pay attention to other’s comments, too — try to capture at least the gist of comments that add to your understanding. 8. your own questions make sure to record your own questions about the material as they occur to you. this will help you remember to ask the professor or look something up later, as well as prompt you to think through the gaps in your understanding. 3 powerful note-taking techniques you don’t have to be super-fancy in your note-taking to be effective, but there are a few techniques that seem to work best for most people. 1. outlining whether you use roman numerals or bullet points, outlining is an effective way to capture the hierarchical relationships between ideas and data. for example, in a history class, you might write the name of an important leader, and under it the key events that he or she was involved in. under each of them, a short description. and so on. outlining is a great way to take notes from books, because the author has usually organized the material in a fairly effective way, and you can go from start to end of a chapter and simply reproduce that structure in your notes. advertising for lectures, however, outlining has limitations. the relationship between ideas isn’t always hierarchical, and the instructor might jump around a lot. a point later in the lecture might relate better to information earlier in the lecture, leaving you to either flip back and forth to find where the information goes best (and hope there’s still room to write it in), or risk losing the relationship between what the professor just said and what she said before. 2. mind-mapping for lectures, a mind-map might be a more appropriate way of keeping track of the relationships between ideas. now, i’m not the biggest fan of mind-mapping, but it might just fit the bill. here’s the idea: in the center of a blank sheet of paper, you write the lecture’s main topic. as new sub-topics are introduced (the kind of thing you’d create a new heading for in an outline), you draw a branch outward from the center and write the sub-topic along the branch. then each point under that heading gets its own, smaller branch off the main one. when another new sub-topic is mentioned, you draw a new main branch from the center. and so on. the thing is, if a point should go under the first heading but you’re on the fourth heading, you can easily just draw it in on the first branch. likewise, if a point connects to two different ideas, you can connect it to two different branches. if you want to neaten things up later, you can re-draw the map or type it up using a program like freemind, a free mind-mapping program (some wikis even have plug-ins for freemind mind-maps, in case you’re using a wiki to keep track of your notes). you can learn more about mind-mapping here: how to mind map: visualize your cluttered thoughts in 3 simple steps 3. the cornell system the cornell system is a simple but powerful system for increasing your recall and the usefulness of your notes. advertising about a quarter of the way from the bottom of a sheet of paper, draw a line across the width of the page. draw another line from that line to the top, about 2 inches (5 cm) from the right-hand edge of the sheet. you’ve divided your page into three sections. in the largest section, you take notes normally — you can outline or mind-map or whatever. after the lecture, write a series of “cues” into the skinny column on the right, questions about the material you’ve just taken notes on. this will help you process the information from the lecture or reading, as well as providing a handy study tool when exams come along: simply cover the main section and try to answer the questions. in the bottom section, you write a short, 2-3 line summary in your own words of the material you’ve covered. again, this helps you process the information by forcing you to use it in a new way; it also provides a useful reference when you’re trying to find something in your notes later. you can download instructions and templates from american digest, though the beauty of the system is you can dash off a template “on the fly”. the bottom line i’m sure i’m only scratching the surface of the variety of techniques and strategies people have come up with to take good notes. some people use highlighters or colored pens; others a baroque system of post-it notes. i’ve tried to keep it simple and general, but the bottom line is that your system has to reflect the way you think. the problem is, most haven’t given much thought to the way they think, leaving them scattered and at loose ends — and their notes reflect this. more note-taking tips why successful people take notes and how to make it your habit the art of note taking in the digital age 7 reasons why taking notes makes you more productive featured photo credit: kaleidico via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next why successful people take notes and how to make it your habit face adversity with a smile the gentle art of saying no advertising advertising more by this author dustin wax how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques back to basics: capture your ideas the science of setting goals (and its effect on your brain) becoming self-taught (the how-to guide) the importance of reminders (and how to make a reminder work) advertising trending in featured 1 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques 2 how to stay motivated and reach your big goals in life 3 how to break out of your comfort zone 4 back to basics: capture your ideas 5 how to motivate yourself: 13 simple ways to try now read next what is speed reading and how to successfully learn it the science of setting goals (and its effect on your brain) how to stop procrastinating: 11 practical ways for procrastinators how to become an early riser and stay energetic about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.