menu weight loss healthy living supplements equipment resources home weight loss how to lose face fat how to lose face fat abbey february 8, 2019 share pin how to lose face fat can be one of the most frustrating things to deal with. it’s notoriously stubborn and difficult to get rid of. it’s not uncommon to see lean and muscular people carry a bit of extra fat in their face. while losing weight on problem areas around your body is a relatively straight-forward process, face fat is another story. this is because face fat is often a product of genetics. when fat accumulates in your body, it’s stored in various places for later use as an energy source. while most of it stored around your mid-section, some people are genetically predisposed to store it in the face and neck. essentially, your dna is working against your fitness and cosmetic goals. so does that mean face fat is impossible to get rid of? absolutely not! there are many ways you can lose weight in your face. achieving your goals is not impossible. however, it takes some dedication and hard work. you can’t really target the fat in your face the same way you can target fat in your belly. to see results, you’ll need to make some significant changes in your overall appearance and lifestyle. here are some great tips that can help you get started on your journey to a slimmer face. how to lose face fat: reduce your overall body fat percentage decreasing your overall body fat percentage can provide you with noticeable results. your body fat percentage is a measurement that refers to the amount of fat in your body in relation to your overall body mass. while you may be at your target body weight, you may be carrying more fat than you realize. the average body fat percentage for a healthy adult man is about 20 to 24 percent. for women, the average is slightly higher at 25 to 30 percent. if you want to have more definition around your face, you need to be below the average. by reducing this percentage, that fine layer of fat around your muscles will become thinner. to reduce face fat, men should aim for a body fat percentage of around 10 percent. women should go down to 20 percent. achieving this goal will involve some lifestyle changes. while you could certainly get down to your goal with a short-term fad diet, your results will fade if you return to your old habits. you need to make lifelong changes that last. here are a few changes you can start making today. how to lose face fat: modify your diet you don’t have to stop eating your favorite foods. however, it’s a good idea to practice moderation. the key to losing weight is burning more calories than you consume. in addition to getting all your key nutrients and vitamins, it’s important to pay attention to your calorie intake. you can still indulge yourself from time to time, as long as you burn off those extra calories later. how to lose face fat: drink more water water is the key to all life. while your body is made up of at least 60 percent water, you can never have too much. water hydrates your cells, which can improve your overall health. not only that, but water helps to mobilize your fat cells. by drinking more water and staying healthy, your body is in prime condition to burn off more calories. this is what we heavily promote in our fat loss 30 weight loss course. you should be drinking approximately 100 ounces of water each and every day. this is equivalent to about 3 liters. try to switch out sugary drinks for water. to ensure that you’re meeting your daily requirements, carry a refillable water bottle around with you. it may seem daunting at first, but if you always have water on hand, you’ll find that it’s not so difficult after all. also try drinking at least 1 cup of green tea per day to help with digestion and flushing out toxins from the body. green tea is great aid to lose weight. how to lose face fat: stick to a regular exercise plan needless to say, exercise is very important if you want to get rid of body fat. if you spend most of your day sitting down at work, it’s more important than ever to get your body moving. at the very least, you should be exercising for about 30 minutes a day. you can add some variety to your exercise routine to keep you interested. how to lose face fat: perform cardiovascular exercises speaking of weight loss and exercise, cardio should be a big part of your workout routine. cardiovascular exercises are some of the most effective exercises you can do to lose weight and reduce body fat. some examples of cardio include running, swimming, and cycling. cardio isn’t just targeted to one specific part of your body. instead, it increases your heart rate and works out your entire body at once. bringing your heart rate up will help you burn more calories in a shorter amount of time. another great advantage that cardio has to offer is increased metabolism. everything you do throughout your day burns calories. you burn calories walking to your car, chewing food, and even sleeping. the amount of calories you burn depends entirely on your metabolism. have you ever wondered why some people can eat anything they want without gaining weight? most likely, it’s because they have a very high metabolism. while your metabolism is often dictated by your age and body composition, you can increase it with cardio. leading a sedentary lifestyle will cause a significant drop in metabolism, which ultimately leads to weight gain. sticking to a regular cardio plan can help you increase your metabolism significantly. your body will then burn more calories during your workouts and long after you have left the gym. how to lose face fat: practice strength training in addition to cardio, incorporating some form of strength training can help you reduce your body fat and provide you with more definition. you don’t have to bulk up and turn into a bodybuilder. instead, you can aim to be lean and strong. these exercises lead to more muscle development. muscle will take the place of fat and make you look slimmer. how to lose face fat: cut back on the carbs you have probably read about those short-term diets that are focused on how awful carbohydrates are for your body. truth is, carbs can have a big effect on how you feel throughout the day. there are good carbohydrates and bad carbohydrates. to lose weight and facial fat, you’ll need to cut back on the bad carbs. bad carbs, also known as simple or refined carbohydrates, can be found in many junk foods. these carbs are stripped of much of their nutritional content. thus, they’re empty calories. but that’s not even the worst part. simple carbs are absorbed into the body and turned into energy very quickly. during this process, you’ll feel a big energy high. unfortunately, that high fades just as abruptly as it came. have you ever experienced a mid-afternoon energy crash? you probably consume too many simple carbohydrates. this energy crash often leads to overeating and weight gain. if you ignore the problem and continue indulging in simple carbs, you’ll have a lot more to worry about than extra face fat. if you want to lose face fat and get healthy, you need to switch to complex carbs. complex carbs can be found in leafy greens, sweet potatoes, grains, and so much more. these types of carbs are converted to energy slowly throughout the day. they can even help you see a boost in metabolism. your weight-loss efforts will be much more effective and you can avoid that awful energy crash. how to lose face fat: reduce your sodium and sugar intake salt and sugar are infamous for causing the dreaded double chin. foods that are filled with sugar and high fructose corn syrup can lead to a significant drop in your metabolism levels. it can also cause inflammation. you may notice that your face gets slightly puffy or swollen after eating a large sugary snack. even if the puffiness is subtle, it can get rid of any definition in your facial features, causing your face to look fatter than it really is. when it comes to salt, the issue you’re dealing with is water retention. sodium causes your body to hold onto more water, which is often referred to as water weight. this is then stored under your chin, resulting in a bloated appearance. one of the best ways to cut back on sodium is to stay away from processed foods. many snacks, canned foods, and prepared meals are very high in sodium because salt is used as a preservative. how to lose face fat: keep your skin in good condition while most people don’t realize it, a great skincare routine can make your face look slimmer and more defined. this is because of the molecular structure of your skin. collagen and elastin are proteins that are found in your skin cells. they affect the skin’s elasticity and firmness. we naturally lose these proteins as we get older. poor skin care can exacerbate the problem. without collagen and elastin, your skin will start to sag. this causes you to lose a lot of definition. the excess skin will hide your natural face structure, resulting in a plumper appearance. there’s a lot you can do to improve the quality of your skin without going to extremes. you should clean your skin every day to remove impurities that may result in acne. exfoliation should also be part of your skincare routine. exfoliation removes dead skin cells and kickstarts the rejuvenation process. it can also stimulate collagen and elastin production. how to lose face fat: perform facial exercises the goal of facial exercises is to strengthen muscles and tighten fibrous tissue. sometimes referred to as facial yoga, these exercises may provide more definition and give you a slimmer look. there are a few different exercises you can perform. they only take a few minutes of time and require no equipment. most of the exercises involve making extreme facial expressions. for example, one face workout is to smile as wide as possible with your mouth closed. simply hold the smile for a few seconds and repeat the process to see results. if you want to tackle a double chin, you can rotate your head while puckering your lips. this will cause some tension in your jaw muscles. how to lose face fat: commit to a plan losing face fat is not something that can be done quickly. it takes time and dedication. it’s important that you commit to the new lifestyle changes. one of the worst things you can do is go into the process with only temporary goals in mind. yo-yo dieting can actually lead to more face fat than before! the more times you lose and gain weight on your face, the more your skin will sag. once you find a routine that works, stick to it for as long as you can. how to lose face fat: conclusion while getting rid of face fat is not easy, you don’t have to settle. give some of these tips a try and see what you can achieve. if you stick to a solid plan, you’ll have increased energy levels, less body fat, and an overall healthier lifestyle. not only that, but you can finally get rid of that double chin once and for all! looking for a realistic way of losing weight fast? adding the best apple cider vinegar to your diet will certainly benefit you in the long term, but it won’t make much of a difference without a proper plan of action. to get this focus on losing weight and to do the right things from the get-go, you need a blueprint. if you’re after a sure-fire way to lose weight in less than 30 days, then why not try out our fab fat loss 30 journey to a lighter fitter you!! you are not alone. you will have me as a guide and a helpful, loving private community of hundreds to support you on your fab fat loss journey. my 30 day fab fat loss journey plan is designed to help women aged 18+ to lose 7 to 21lbs in 30 days. if you have more weight to lose than 21lbs, then the course is designed so that you can repeat the whole journey onto the next month. it’s simple to follow and simple to stay on track. [divder] we have a few more pages to support this page best yoga sex exercises best yoga terms and yoga words best balance yoga positions for balance best kettlebell leg workout best 10 fitness exersize cooking with plants organic bone broth nice n easy menu ideas how to lose face fat matcha green tea green tea for weight loss the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts abbey latest posts by abbey (see all) 30 day challenge ideas to help keep you motivated 2020 - january 16, 2020 tips on drinking keto wine on your weight loss journey 2020 - january 15, 2020 alcohol awareness on calories in alcoholic beverages 2020 - january 13, 2020 get more stuff subscribe to our mailing list and get interesting stuff and updates to your email inbox. i consent to my submitted data being collected via this form* thank you for subscribing. something went wrong. the form collects name and email so that we can add you to our newsletter list for project updates. checkout our privacy policy for the full story on how we protect and manage your submitted data! no responses pingback: cooking with plants vegan cookbook for weight loss 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: the lazy weight loss journal tips: 2019 - lazy ways to lose weight - fabfityou.com december 29, 2019 pingback: best yoga terms and yoga words to help understand yoga 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: best 30 day challenge to fit into your wedding dress 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: how to drink your way to a slimmer figure & look great 2019 december 29, 2019 pingback: 8 of the best myprotein flavors - 2020 guide - fabfityou.com january 10, 2020 leave a reply cancel reply save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. free ebook 10 day weight loss plan without working out! easy to follow guide to losing weight without breaking sweat subscribe to newsletter thank you for subscribing. something went wrong. popular posts best yoga sex exercises to improve sexual … best yoga terms and yoga words to … 9 nice n easy menu ideas for … making a healthy choice for weight loss … how to lose face fat related posts the lazy weight loss journal tips: 2019 – lazy ways to lose weight there is nothing more frustrating than putting in the time and effort to lose weight and not getting the results that you hoped for. after going on diet after diet, you’d think that the pounds would drop off your body … abbey|february 8, 2019| cooking with plants vegan cookbook tips for weight loss 2020 best coconut oil to lose weight and improve health review 2019 10 effortless cutting diet tips to lose weight 2019 resources keto weight loss yoga cyprus archives january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 july 2019 february 2019 january 2019 categories do yoga with me (3) equipment (6) healthy living (15) keto (4) recipes (3) resources (9) supplements (5) weight loss (20) yoga (4) fabfityou.com copyright © 2020. fabfityou.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. amazon and the amazon logo are trademarks of amazon.com, inc. or its affiliates. read more on our affiliate disclaimer page.