menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: communication, featured, money & career, professional skills, small talk, social skills jeremy anderberg • january 10, 2019 last updated: march 13, 2020 how to deal with a talkative coworker you’re in your cubicle, minding your own business, when a coworker walking by stops to talk. seems innocuous enough . . . except they do this multiple times a day. most every day. while you don’t mind a little chit-chat with your officemates, the interruptions from this coworker go on too long, are banal, and/or are hindering your workflow and productivity. what can you do about this kind of overly talkative coworker? below we walk you through some options. 6 tips for dealing with an overly talkative coworker 1. small talk at work is important; don’t shrug it off entirely. while small talk at work can sometimes seem dull and entirely unimportant, it’s actually a big piece of building a good office culture and bonding with your coworkers. you want to have rapport with them. how do you do that? many times it’s through the small conversations you have throughout the day. be open to them, at least some of the time. you don’t want to be so standoffish that you become known as the surly office grump who doesn’t ever talk to anyone except for official business matters. if someone is talkative at work, use your practical wisdom to figure out if you just need to deal with it and make some small talk now and then, or if it’s truly disturbing your workday. if it’s the latter, consider the options below. 2. wear headphones and/or make yourself look busy, but don’t do it unrelentingly. in the world we live in, wearing headphones is a common tactic for putting off an unapproachable, “do not disturb” vibe. if you’re actively typing away, if you have a focused look on your face while studying a report, if you have headphones in/on — you’re less likely to be interrupted by a chatty coworker. (if you have a private office, cutting down on disturbances is often as easy as closing the door; an open door generally invites some amount of chit-chat.) that said, heed the above point: small talk and general sociability is an important part of being a team player, so don’t always have your headphones in. it’s fine for a few blocks of focused work time during the day, but make a point to have them off at other times to make yourself a little more approachable. 3. politely let them know you need to get back to work. if simply looking busy doesn’t do the trick, and you’re still interrupted on the regular, utilize any number of excuses that signify your need to get back to work; start with the preface, “i’d really love to chat more, but . . .” and then add something like “i’m on a deadline for this memo” or “i have a phone call later that i need to prepare for.” the rub, of course, is that these excuses can’t always be white lies; if you say you have a phone call in 10 minutes, and 10 minutes later you clearly don’t, what’s going on will be fairly obvious. if you don’t really have a decent excuse, you can say something like “i wish i could talk more, but i’m really trying to be more focused with work, so i need to get back to it. we’ll catch up later at happy hour or something.” at this stage, be sure to use friendly tones to soften the blow — no need to be an ass here. know that your coworker probably has good intentions — they’re not chatting with you to intentionally get you off track. it’s likely they’re just a talkative person and are trying to build some sort of connection, or they’re bored and they maybe don’t quite have enough to do with themselves. 4. if it’s work-related, schedule a meeting. if you’re regularly being interrupted, but about work-related chit-chat and questions, schedule a meeting to talk about it at length in a more focused manner. in some cases, the solution is really that simple. if the coworker comes back with something like, “oh, it’s alright. no need for a meeting — i’ll just figure it out myself,” then it’s likely that their conversation wasn’t actually important, and you also just got out of it. winning! 5. confront them more directly about the inappropriate amounts of chit-chat. if the chattiness is becoming a chronic problem, and your friendly excuses or general “do not disturb” look haven’t been landing, your best recourse will be to have a more direct, slightly sterner conversation about it. it’s uncomfortable, of course, but sometimes necessary. sure, you might get the silent treatment, but isn’t that what you’ve actually sort of been hoping for? 6. speak to a supervisor. as a very last resort (that part is important), you can bring the issue up with a supervisor or with hr. if you’re having a big enough problem that you’re considering raising the issue with your superiors, chances are good that other people are being affected as well. a supervisor may be able to bring up the problem in less personal terms: “i’ve been hearing that your chattiness is hindering the productivity of others in the office.” with these tips, you’ll be able to mitigate the chatty interruptions and get back down to doing the work at hand. related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// podcast #593: all you have to do is ask how to build instant rapport read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy