start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising communication motivation psychology advertising we don’t need a lot of self-help books, we need resilience arthur peirce lifestyle writer read full profile share pin it tweet share email have you ever noticed that some people are just really good at bouncing back? they roll with the punches life throws them with almost effortless ease. for years, i wondered what their secret was. i’ve gone to hypnotherapists, looked into buddhism, read through a frankly weird amount of self-help books (i think the people at my local library are a little concerned), all to little avail. i wondered if these people were unusually tough? perhaps even unusually uncaring? no, in the end these people who stand against adversity have resilience, nothing more. the good news is, resilience can be learned and developed. surprisingly, there is no single agreed definition for resilience; however, in general resilience is that x factor that makes people keep going through adversity. to some degree, resiliency is a product of biological factors, or was formed in childhood when the brain was in development.[1] a thirty year study followed 698 children for the first three decades of their lives.[2] during the study, particular attention was paid to reactions to trauma and stress. two thirds came from comfortable, stable homes, and functioned generally okay. advertising the other third were considered “at risk,” and had been exposed to unusual stress or difficulties in their home life. two thirds of this group unfortunately grew up developing learning and behavioral issues. the remaining third, like the ones from safe, comfortable homes, grew up to be good, caring adults. they developed resilience. the reasons for this were twofold: some of the “at risk” had access to a supportive caregiver who helped make sure they didn’t go through their problems alone. others were fiercely independent from a young age and went through their lives on their own terms. interestingly, some who initially weren’t resilient, later developed resiliency. to develop resilience, you don’t really need to do the tough stuff. so, what does it take to actually get some extra resilience? well, here are four ways to build some up, and all of them involve finding peace in yourself. 1. always look on the bright side, especially in stressful situations. this is a key, underlining aspect to it all. it makes a lot of sense, because, for example, if someone were to react to a stressful event by thinking it was the worst thing in the world, it will seem as such. but were they to somehow remain positive, to see the silver lining in it, then it will seem less overwhelming, and as such they will be more resilient. advertising so it is important to remain positive about the past, present and future. in some of my experiments with buddhism, i have been told that the world appears to us as we imagine it to be, and the real trauma is not the event itself, but our emotional reaction to the trauma (if you want the point backed up by eastern spirituality). 2. stay connected with someone supportive. one unifying factor of the most resilient children in the study mentioned earlier is that they had a support structure. they had parents, guardians, or a teacher that had their back. other reports and studies have suggested the same.[3] all you need is someone who wants to see you succeed and is willing to help you do so. to children it can be a parent, guardian, or teacher. but for you, having a group of good friends is just as effective. 3. do good to make people feel good. studies have shown that doing good increases production of serotonin, a neurotransmitter that regulates mood, in the body.[4] low levels of serotonin are often found in people suffering from depression. advertising so, doing good makes you feel good. doing good can also help put things in perspective if you are faced with people who are suffering tougher challenges in their lives. some have also suggested making an effort to note when kindness is done to you, perhaps by creating a gratitude journal or blog.[5] people are more likely to remember when they have been mistreated, so having a reminder of the many times you have been treated well may help cancel out negativity. 4. take very good care of yourself. with this i don’t just mean keeping active and eating well (which can’t hurt), but paying attention to your mind. stress can accumulate, which by extension can have a lasting impact on your mood and make you react severely to stressful situations, ultimately exacerbating them.[6] a setback you might easily be able to take might knock you down if you already have a lot of stress in your life. to counter the effects of this cumulative stress, you should make sure you’re getting plenty of sleep and rest. advertising even when you are just relaxing, parts of your brain are working on overdrive, especially when stressed. rest and sleep can counteract this. practicing all of the above could greatly improve your resilience and ability to stand tough against setbacks and trauma, as well as be better equipped to handle stress and feel good while doing so. i’ll leave you with the last stanza of a poem: “invictus” by william ernest henley.[7] this poem was one that proved a great benefit to nelson mandela during his 25 years in prison, as well as me during much less inspiring stuff. the poem summarizes resilience in a nice way. “it matters not how straight the gate how charged with punishment the scroll i am the master of my fate i am the captain of my soul.” reference [1] ^ science mag: the science of resilience: implications for the prevention and treatment of depression [2] ^ the new yorker: how people learn to become resilient [3] ^ time: the importance of resilience [4] ^ psychology today: practicing acts of kindness [5] ^ experiencelife: the 5 best ways to build resilience [6] ^ anxiety relief solutions: are you suffering from cumulative stress? [7] ^ poetry foundation: invictus share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) advertising advertising more by this author arthur peirce lifestyle writer a negotiation is like a game, you can’t get the best deal without a strategy signs of a commitment phobe and how to deal with him/her how to be your own boss with little (or no) money keep a “friend bank” so you can maintain the right kind of friendship! how to leave a great impression with a confident handshake advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness more by this author arthur peirce lifestyle writer a negotiation is like a game, you can’t get the best deal without a strategy signs of a commitment phobe and how to deal with him/her how to be your own boss with little (or no) money keep a “friend bank” so you can maintain the right kind of friendship! how to leave a great impression with a confident handshake trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.