skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search how to create motivational artwork what’s the best type of artwork? artwork which motivates others, and yourself! 1. artwork of those who you love for me, artwork of cindy. you cannot fake love. if you make art works of your soulmate, there’s something inherently motivational in it. you were moved by that person, and that person has a huge impact in your life. thus, your art works of them will have the strongest impact and soul. 2. imputing your soul into your art works why i love calligraphy — i can impute my soul into my finger, into my calligraphs. calligraphy is probably one of the most direct ways you can impute your life force into your artwork: 3. make art works which entertain yourself! you cannot fake enthusiasm. only make art works of things you’re genuinely interested and curious in, and your enthusiasm and motivation will inspire, affect, and motivate others! 4. stay curious my personal curiosity in almost everything motivates me. so — obey your childlike curiosity and naïveté! create on! eric haptic muse by kim $ 290 add to cart the digital nomad [flash sale] sale! product on sale $ 77 $ 29 add to cart zen of eric: empower yourself with philosophy and photography sale! product on sale $ 19 $ 0 add to cart photolosophy: photography philosophy course $ 100 add to cart street photography starter kit sale! product on sale $ 500 $ 99 add to cart cindy project by eric kim $ 1,000 add to cart henri shoulder strap sale! product on sale $ 169 – $ 179 select options ultimate beginner’s guide to mastering photography online course enroll now! ultimate beginner’s guide to photography entrepreneurship online course enroll now! how to see: visual guide to composition, color, & editing in photography $ 10 add to cart ultimate beginner’s guide to mastering street photography book sale! product on sale $ 29 $ 19 add to cart modern photographer: marketing, branding, entrepreneurship principles for success sale! product on sale $ 19 $ 9 add to cart creative every day mobile edition: pdf & kindle sale! product on sale $ 19 $ 10 add to cart street notes mobile edition: pdf & kindle $ 10 add to cart haptic industries > henri neck strap (mark iii) shoot fearless > haptic industries creative tools to empower you. haptic industries on amazon > eric kim newsletter free motivation: email address eric kim workshops conquer your fears and meet new peers: april 25-26: chicago conquer composition workshop september 19-20: boston discover your unique voice in photography workshop (new date) november 4-8: havana, cuba travel street photography workshop experience – register intent join ars: the anti-social social media for photographers what do people really think about your photos? arsbeta.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta