start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising smartcut productivity leadership advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated jennifer r. farmer an author and trainer specializes in helping socially-conscious entrepreneurs, celebrities and activists read full profile share pin it tweet share email stretch goals are a lot like physical fitness. when you adopt a physical sport such as running, continual practice leads to increased stamina, growth and progress. while commitment to the sport improves performance, true growth happens when you are stretched beyond your comfort zone. i know this from personal experience. for years, i was an avid runner. i ran with a variety of running groups in the washington, d.c., area and in columbus, ohio, where i lived prior to moving to the nation’s capital in 2011. while i was initially fearful about slacking off on my exercise habit when i moved to d.c., running enthusiasts in the area provided continual motivation, inspiring me to lace up my shoes day after day. much to my surprise, many of the area’s running stores (including pacers and potomac river running) boasted running groups that met in the mornings and evenings. so, it was relatively easy for a newcomer like me to connect with like-minded peers. i was never a particularly fast runner, but i enjoyed the afterglow of the sport: being completely drained but feeling a sense of accomplishment; setting and reaching goals; buying and wearing out new tennis shoes. the sound of throngs of feet pounding the pavement in semi-unison is still enough to bring tears to my eyes. yes, i sometimes tear up at the start of races. of all the groups i ran with, the pacers store group that met on monday nights in logan circle boasted the fastest runners. i met up with the group week after week only to be the slowest runner. it was difficult to muster the courage to get up every week and meet the group knowing what was waiting for me: sweating and watching the backs of fellow runners. each time i joined the group, i was stretching myself without even realizing it. instead of feeling like i was transitioning into a better running, for a long time i felt i was torturing myself. then something remarkable happened. i went for a run with a different set of runners and noticed my time had improved. i was running at a faster pace and doing so with ease. what was once uncomfortable for me i now handled with ease. the reason i was becoming a better runner was because i was taking myself out of my comfort zone and challenging myself physically and mentally. this example illustrates the process of growth. fortunately, we can create situations that stretch us in our personal and professional lives. table of contents what is a stretch goal? the importance of setting stretch goals the bottom line more articles about goals setting what is a stretch goal? a stretch goal – as authors sim b. sitkin, c. chet miller and kelly e. see detail an article “the stretch goal paradox” in harvard business review[1] – is something that is extremely difficult and novel. it is something that not everyone does, and it’s sometimes considered impossible. advertising in general, you establish stretch goals by doing things that are difficult or temporarily challenging. for instance, when i was first promoted to a senior communications management role, i knew i needed to beef up my relationships with media personalities. i set a goal to once a month book a day of media interviews in new york city – which is home to many media outlets, including siriusxm radio, cnn, nbc news, huffpost, vibe. this was a huge goal because it meant not only identifying the right people to meet with but convincing them to meet with me and my team. while i didn’t end up meeting the goal of doing a full day of media interviews in new york city, i met more people than i would have met had i not established the goal and instead stayed in the comfort of my d.c. office. it is important to note that just because you establish a stretch goal doesn’t mean you’ll achieve the goal each time. however, the process of trying is guaranteed to provide some level of growth. the importance of setting stretch goals the beginning of the year is a perfect time to assess where you are excelling and where there is room for you to grow. i typically start the year by creating a yearlong strategic plan for myself. i think about the things that are necessary to do and things that would be cool to do. i assess the people i should know and think through how to meet them. then i ask myself if the goals are realistic and what would need to happen for me to achieve them. over time, i have learned that there are five things i can do to set stretch goals: 1. get outside of your head if i exist within the confines of my imagination, i imperil my own growth and creativity. if i examine my accomplishments and celebrate them in isolation of others’ accomplishments, my vantage point is limited. i want to be comfortable with what i accomplish, but i also want to be motivated by watching others. in some respects, stretching is about expanding your network of friends, associates and mentors. these are the people who will propel or slow your growth and development. since two are better than one, i always value being able to share my progress with others, seek feedback and then map a plan for success. advertising 2. focus on a couple areas at a time when setting goals, it is important to focus on a couple of areas at a time. most of us are only able to focus on a few things at a time, and if you feel you are unable to tackle all that is before you, you may simply disengage. i see this in so many areas of life: when people get in debt, if they believe the debt is insurmountable, they refuse to look at incoming bills for fear of facing down the debt. unfortunately, many businesses go awry when setting stretch goals. in “the stretch goal paradox,” sitkin, miller and see note: “our research suggests that though the use of stretch goals is quite common, successful use is not. and many executives set far too many stretch goals. in the past five years, for example, tesla failed to meet more than 20 of founder elon musk’s ambitious projections and missed half of them by nearly a year, according to the wall street journal.” goal-setting is like a marathon, not a sprint. it doesn’t all need to happen at the same time, and pacing is extremely important if you want to get to the finish line. it is better to focus on a couple goals at a time, master them and then move on to the next thing. 3. set aside time each year to focus on goal-setting when i was a managing director for communications for the advancement project, i spent the first part of every year facilitating a communications planning meeting. the planning meeting began with the team members assessing the goals the team had established in the preceding year, and whether those goals were realistic or not. if we failed to meet certain goals, we broke down why that happened. from there, we brainstormed about possibilities for the current year. for instance, one year we set a goal of pitching and getting 24 opinion essays published. this was audacious because no one on the eight-person team had the luxury of focusing exclusively on editing and pitching opinion essays to publications around the world. we would need to focus on pitching in between the rest of our work. we hit this goal within the first eight months of the year. remarkably, in total, we ended up getting 40 opinion essays published that year, which was an indication that our original goal was too low. we upped the goal to 41 the next year, and amazingly, we hit 42 published opinion essays or guest columns. from this experience, we not only learned what was feasible, we also learned the power of focus. advertising when we focused as a team on getting the commentary on our issues out in the public domain, we were successful. the key in all of this is that there was a ton of discussion around which goal we’d pursue and why. equally important, as a manager, i didn’t set the goals alone; the team members and i established the goals collaboratively. this ensured buy-in from each individual. 4. use the s.m.a.r.t. goal model to set realistic goals s.m.a.r.t. is a synonym for specific, measurable, attainable, realistic and time-bound. for the sake of this article, the realistic portion of the acronym is most important. while you want to set audacious goals, you want to ensure that they are realistic as well. no one is served by setting a goal that is impossible to accomplish. failing to meet goals can be demoralizing for teams, so it’s important to be sober-eyed about what is possible. additionally, the purpose of setting goals is to advance and grow, not depress morale. for instance, my team would have been discouraged had i begun the year asking it to pitch and place 40 opinion essays if we didn’t already have a track record of placing close to two dozen essays. by using the s.m.a.r.t. formula, we were able to achieve all that we set out to do. 5. break the goal up into small digestible parts i am a recovering perfectionist. as a writer, being a perfectionist can be counterproductive because i can fail to start if i don’t see a clear pathway to victory. the same is true with goal-setting. that’s why i join lifehack’s fellow contributor deb knobelman, ph.d., in noting that it is critically important to break goals into bite-sized chunks. when i had a goal of doing daylong media meetings in new york city, i had to think through all the barriers to achieving that goal and all the steps required to meet the goal. advertising one step was identifying which reporters, producers and hosts to engage. another step was writing a pitch or meeting invitation that would capture their attention. another step was thinking through the program areas i wanted to highlight and the new angles i could offer to different reporters. since reporters want to cover stories that no one else has written, i needed to come up with fresh angles for each of the reporters i was engaging. an additional step was thinking through who from my team i’d take with me to the various meetings. i was clear that, as a talking head, as public relations reps are sometimes called, i needed the right spokesperson in order to land repeated meetings with different outlets. a final step was thinking through what i needed to bring to each meeting and which reports, videos and testimonials would buttress our claims and be of interest to media figures. as i walked through what was needed to bring my goal of doing daylong meetings to reality, i realized that not only was the idea within reach, but i was excited to tackle the challenge. from that point until now, i have learned to break down goals into smaller parts and tackle the smaller parts on the path to knocking the goal out of the park. the bottom line these are my recommendations for setting stretch goals, and there are a ton of other resources to support you in the workplace and in your community. for instance, linkedin’s lynda.com platform has a wonderful suite of leadership development videos, including ones on establishing stretch goals. this is a paid resource but may be worth the investment if you lead a team or want to invest in tools for your own growth and development. more articles about goals setting how setting personal goals makes you a greater achiever how smart goal setting makes lasting changes in your life how to set goals and achieve them successfully how to use smart goal to become highly successful in life featured photo credit: avatar of user isaac smith isaac smith @isaacmsmith isaac smith via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ harvard business review: the stretch goal paradox share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what are smart goals (and how to use them to become successful) how to makes lasting changes with smart goal setting how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) advertising advertising more by this author jennifer r. farmer an author and trainer specializes in helping socially-conscious entrepreneurs, celebrities and activists how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated 5 traits of positive leadership any leader should master 10 signs of a bad boss and how to deal with them 9 powerful techniques for building rapport with anyone 16 good habits of happy and successful people advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author jennifer r. farmer an author and trainer specializes in helping socially-conscious entrepreneurs, celebrities and activists how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated 5 traits of positive leadership any leader should master 10 signs of a bad boss and how to deal with them 9 powerful techniques for building rapport with anyone 16 good habits of happy and successful people trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.