home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog may 24, 2012 by erin weiss 55 comments as women, we go our whole lives hating our periods and thinking they were more of a pain than anything. they are a complete drag most of the time. dealing with the cramps and pms is just inconvenient and not fun. i have always hated getting my period..until recently. (image source) i’ve always had a somewhat regular cycle. i have been on and off birth control pills which really regulated it, but even when i’m off the pill, i’m pretty regular. i started jamie eason’s livefit program in september 2011. this was the first time i really dedicated myself to weight training and working out 4-6 days per week. the first month of livefit training was fine and my cycle was regular. by the 8th week of training, my period was non existent. this was the first time my period just decided to not come at all. no signs, no symptoms, nothing! i started to really stress about it. i knew it wasn’t normal and something in my body wasn’t regular. i knew i wasn’t pregnant but i took a pregnancy test anyway to put my mind at rest. as i thought, i was not pregnant. i did some researching and found that exercise can actually affect the menstrual cycle in women. i was confused at first because i had always heard that exercise, staying active, being at a healthy weight, and eating healthy is great for the body and will help regulate your cycle and that’s what i was doing. i was confused. fast forward 8 months to today.. i’ve still been exercising 4-6 times a week and my cycle has been a hit or miss every month for the past 8 months. i am writing this article today because at this point i haven’t gotten my period in over 2 months. i took another pregnancy test to be safe and once again, i’m not pregnant. i have recently talked to many other fitness girls and learned that this is a very common problem for women like myself. i have learned a lot about why this happens by talking to others and researching the issue. i’ll explain a bit more about what i learned. i hope that this may help some of you understand why this happens to us, as athletes. there are several factors that could affect a woman’s hormones. weight – if you’re underweight, your body won’t produce the hormones it needs to complete a menstrual cycle. if you’re overweight, your hormones may be thrown out of whack and make it hard to conceive. having too low of a body fat percentage is unhealthy and you may experience a missed period. you need to be at a healthy weight in order to maintain a normal hormonal balance. stress – when we are stressed or have high anxiety levels, the cortisol released by our adrenal glands is affected. this abnormal release of cortisol can impact our estrogen and progesterone hormones. with these hormones affected, the regularity of our cycle can be affected. exercising – over exercising (overtraining) may put too much stress on the body to produce the regularity of hormones it needs to complete a cycle. exercising is draining on your body. menstration isn’t vital to occur in order for our bodies to survive. the main point of menstruation is to reproduce. when we exercise, our bodies go into a survival mode and may shut down unecessary functions in the body(menstruation) to save energy to keep our bodies going in it’s current condition. it holds on to every bit of energy it can in order to allow vital functions to work properly. after reading that weight, stress and over training may affect my menstrual cycle, i started to think about my own personal situation. the last time i got my body fat checked, i was around a 17%. to many people, this may be too low but it’s not unhealthy according to the “books”. maybe that’s why my period is no where to be found? my weight is on the lower end as well. both of these factors could definitly be affecting my cycle. i have not been stressed, so i don’t think that is a factor. i’ve recently realized that maybe i’m training too hard for my body. i took last week off completely from training and was hoping that it would allow my body to chill out and regulate itself. it didn’t help because it didn’t come. i started to wonder…is my missing period hurting my body? i mean…i don’t mind not having a period to deal with..but is my body sending me a message that i should be listening to? the answer is yes. amenorrhea (the absence of a period) can put you at high risk for osteoporosis, a disease in which your bones become brittle and are more likely to break. amenorrhea is usually caused by a lack of estrogen (female hormones) produced naturally in the body. estrogen is necessary to prevent osteoporosis. by over-training, our bodies will lack estrogen and can cause fractures to our bones. you are much more likely to hurt yourself if you are over-training. (image source) when you miss your period for over 6 months, you could have secondary amenorrhea which could affect your fertilitly in the future. okay….this is weird…. sorry..as i was writing this post, guess what? i got my period (sorry guys if that’s tmi). how ironic! wow, i’m in shock. i guess all i need to do was start a blog post about this and it would jump start it (jk). i don’t know why it decided to come at this very moment, 2 1/2 months late, but i think taking a week off of training probably helped. maybe it gave my body that rest it needed. i need to make sure to take my training down a notch and hopefully keep myself regular from here on out. i know this was such a strange post, but i hope that it helps some women realize that this is a common problem in the fitness world. if you miss your period once or twice, it’s pretty common. if you miss your period for more than 6 months, please go see your gynecologist because it could affect your fertility and bone loss. train hard, but train smart!!! if your body is telling you something, listen to it! <3 erin sources: http://www.netdoctor.co.uk/health_advice/facts/menstruation_cycle.htm http://www.webmd.com/osteoporosis/guide/overtraining-and-osteoporosis about the author i started live life active to document my journey (if you’re interested in starting a blog yourself, i’d highly suggest doing so – here’s my post on how to start a blog). starting a personal blog was one of the best decisions i’ve made in my life to keep myself accountable on my health and it unexpectedly soon turned into quite a lucrative business adventure as well! anyway, if you’re on the fence of starting your own blog. do it!!! a year from now, you’ll wish you started today. never mind, scratch that, you’ll wish you started yesterday. moral of the story…best decision i’ve made thus far. fitness blog fitness blog fitness blog fitness blog fitness blog fitness blog fitness blog fitness blog fitness blog fitness blog fitness blog fitness blog fitness blog fitness blog filed under: news tagged with: adrenal gland, birth control, body fat, cardio, cortisol, cramps, cycle, estrogen, exercise, fertility problems from exercising, fitness blog, hormones, infertility, irregular cycle, irregular hormones, jamie eason live fit, low body fat, menstration, missed menstrual cycle, missed period, missed rag, pms, progesterone, weight lifting, women problems you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. comments amy b @ second city randomness says may 24, 2012 at 10:57 am i have issues with this on the regular. i’m no longer on the pill and get my period maybe every 4-5 months. after the second span of time this happened, my doctor gave me medicine that “induces” it. he said it is ok to go 2-3 months without, but anything over that is not good for my lady parts. so that has helped me with my “issues”. 🙂 reply erin says may 24, 2012 at 2:06 pm i had another friend tell me that they have to take a pill to “induce” it. i had no idea that some people were on special medicine besides the pill to regulate this. if you don’t mind me asking, what medicine did your doc put you on to regulate it? reply amy b @ second city randomness says may 25, 2012 at 5:34 am medroxyprogesterone. had to look in the medicine cabinet for that one… lol. bet ya can’t say it 10x fast. 🙂 reply erin says may 26, 2012 at 10:41 am thanks amy! reply rachel says may 24, 2012 at 1:36 pm thank you for writing this post. i definitely don’t mind the tmi. i think more women should be open about talking about things like periods. i’ve been skipping as well. although it’s not really a full skip. i still see pieces of my uterus lining come out but there is very little to no blood. been going back and forth about if i should see a doctor about it. my body is still going through a cycle, so that’s good. and i don’t really mind not having to deal with a full blown period. but you’re probably right that overtraining and stress are what’s causing it. reply erin says may 24, 2012 at 2:04 pm of course! i think women should be more open about this too! if it’s been happening for more than a few months, then i’d talk to your doctor about it just to be on the safe side. maybe you should try to take a few days off…go get a massage or something. you deserve it 😉 reply stephanie @ the fitness adventures says may 24, 2012 at 1:59 pm thanks for researching and posting about this topic erin! this is something that i have also been experiencing lately. glad to know i am not alone, and maybe i just need to take a few days off to get things back in balance. reply erin says may 24, 2012 at 2:03 pm you’re welcome! since i wrote this post, i’ve had so many girls tell me how this has been happening to them too. it’s so crazy how this topic isn’t talked about that much! you are definitely not alone 🙂 reply gina says april 2, 2013 at 2:20 pm thanks for writing this post. i started live fit a week ago and i just got my period about a week and a half early! i’m usually pretty regular too so i figured my recent change in diet and exercise must have had something to do with it. you are brave for writing this post! reply erin says april 3, 2013 at 8:45 am no problem!!! i’m glad i could help put your mind at ease 😉 reply emily says may 7, 2013 at 11:58 am i went skiing last month, and i haven’t had my period this month. do you think that’s what has caused it? reply erin says may 7, 2013 at 1:41 pm probably not…it would only be from excessive amounts of exercise. reply missy says may 8, 2013 at 5:56 am i just started a 90 day challenge and am on my third week. it’s been pretty intense and has been years since i’ve trained like this. i was due to start 2 days ago and have been cramping a little, but not bad and spotting since saturday. if i’ve only been training 3 weeks would it still affect my body in this way? reply erin says may 8, 2013 at 11:20 am yep, could definitely be why! reply sarah says may 15, 2013 at 1:07 am hi erin i have experienced this aswell; i started weight training hard and working my ass off to get my body fat down to 11.7% but this lead to me missing my period – i went for 3 months without getting it and then another 2 months before getting it. not only did i not get my period the follow on from not getting it was aching ovaries (sorry tmi a bit gross) which apparently was because that area was not getting the regular flushing out it usually should. i really really want to get back to the gym so was wondering have you experienced this since? if so how is your training different to what it was before? thanks so much for your post 🙂 reply erin says may 15, 2013 at 2:22 pm yeah, i still get missed periods or late ones all the time because i’m still training hard. i just now don’t freak out as much as i used to because i know why. i haven’t experienced any “aches” like you mentioned. i try to take a week off from training hard every few months to give my body a rest. usually if i haven’t gotten it, i’ll get it that week 🙂 reply kay says may 25, 2013 at 12:50 pm hi erin, thank you for this post. i am quite anxious because my period did not come until now, i am expecting it to come a week ago, but it didn’t. just a bit of background, prior to last week, i started a ‘body pump’ kind of exercise in the gym. although, i had been in the gym for two months already doing cardio and some weights, but this is the first time i tried body pump training and it was more strenuous lifting weights. i felt that it shocked my body because i suffered aches and muscles pains for 3 days. but it was good so i tried it again last monday. also, i had been into a lot of stress from work plus a protected sex with my partner (condom) last week. the thing now, i am anxious because no period came. the question is, am i delayed due to excessive exercising and stress lately or am i pregnant? i am watching my body closely for early signs of pregnancy, like implantation bleeding, sore breasts etc. but there is none. i have a little tenderness in my breast but no darkening aerolas or veins. it’s been 10 days already since i had sex and nothing followed after that so if i am pregnant then implantation could have occured by now, right? is this me over analyzing? what do you think is the most possible why i don’t have my period? thank you, would appreciate a lot to hear your opinion. reply erin says may 27, 2013 at 5:16 pm if you’re really worried, maybe you should get a test to ease your mind!!! mine is often irregular when i switch up my routine and train hard. i’d suggest taking a test! reply mady says july 18, 2013 at 3:44 pm ive been working out everyday for the passed three weeks. i work out for about 1 hour. ive also been stressed about not getting my period. im only a week late but im still worried. my schedule has slightly changed but not rapidly, could this be the cause of my late period? reply erin says july 19, 2013 at 10:21 am yes, stress and new exercise routines could absolutely be the cause! reply kendra says august 2, 2013 at 9:44 pm you ladies rock! this was a huge help to me. i have been running for about 3 years but about 6-7 weeks ago i decided to amp it up to try to lose some weight and am now running 2-3 miles a day in 90+degree weather. i am about 5 days late on my period but pretty sure i’m not pregnant. i’ve had two kids and remember very well what that feels like. i’m not underweight though and i’m not a marathon runner either. i assume the heat and the sudden increase in frequency must be causing this? oh also i work nights and am not sleeping enough either. reply kiara says august 4, 2013 at 2:49 pm so glad you posted this. i just recently started working out extremely hard for about 4-5 days now. i am 2 days overdue on my period and i started to panic. however, i thought about how hard i’ve been working my body, so i decided to research if working out had something to do with this delay because i have been on time for about 3 months now. unfortunately, i still have had symptoms like slight cramping, headaches, and nausea. but lord behold, your article came up first! lol. this definitely gave me peace of mind and closure. thanks much! reply erin says august 5, 2013 at 1:35 pm good! i’m glad i can put your mind at ease 🙂 reply anonymous says august 8, 2013 at 12:53 pm i am overweight. i went from being mostly sedentary to getting moderate exercise about 4-5 days a week (typically 30 mins a day). i did this last month as well first month my period came on time as it always does. but this month (month 2) i have not had any cramping, no spotting, no sign of period showing up. and i am now 4 days late. could the exercise still be affecting my period even if its not very strenuous? reply erin says august 20, 2013 at 8:48 am yes it absolutely could be the cause. any change in exercise can cause this. reply anonymous says august 21, 2013 at 11:16 am thank you! it ended up showing a week late. 🙂 reply stacia says august 25, 2013 at 2:11 pm glad somebody else beside me opened up about this condition. i missed my period one time for up to 11 months total. i wasn’t even training super hard, and according to my gynecologist, life stress was responsible for the missing period. i guess sometimes we women push ourselves too hard on every level (physically, mentally, spiritually) that we sort of lose our balance. hope you’re doing fine 🙂 reply edona says september 5, 2013 at 6:51 am thank u for this information.. after 4 months of traning i started having problems with my period. i mean i dont over train, i just do some cardio and strength 3-4 a week. so i went to my dr to have myself checked. nothing was wrong, he didn’t gave me pills and he said that many factors can cause this. so i just got used to my new periods and i dont worry as long as i am single 😛 reply julie says september 8, 2013 at 5:14 pm great article. i am glad to know that other women go through this. thank you for writing it and sharing your research. reply michelle says september 10, 2013 at 8:43 am hello erin,thank you for this information. i undergo training for 2 months now. 6 times a week, 1-2 hours per day. i have signs of having period like breast tenderness,cramping,back pain etc etc. 3 days ago i have a very little blood spot till now.is this also related to my exercise? if yes, how to make my period back. i dont experience delayed from the beginning only this time when i joined the gym/ladies club. please advice of what to do. thank you. reply amber says september 11, 2013 at 11:57 am thanks for writing this article. it was very helpful to me. reply jessica says september 26, 2013 at 10:38 pm the past two weeks i’ve been exercising quite a lot compared to what i’m normally use too. i walk aroud 6-8 miles a day, 6 days a week. i’m not going at a super fast pace but still getting in a good workout. i got off my period 18 days ago and now just started again. glad to have come across this post because it was very helpful. reply morgan merrick says october 7, 2013 at 10:55 am i’m 18 and just recently started working out i go to the gym 3 days a week for about an hour and a half. i’m 106 pounds and 5’5″. my period has been late four days now, at first i was worried more than jesus knows what. so, i took a pregnancy test it came up negative and so did the second one. what do i do? i hated having a period but now that i haven’t had one i really appreciate it. i’m so lost and confused about it. reply morgan merrick says october 7, 2013 at 10:56 am i’ve been lifting weights in the gym if that helps to know. reply erin says october 7, 2013 at 1:31 pm give your body some time. your test said negative so relax and let your body work itself out. stress will only make it even later so take a deep breath and stop stressing! reply sara says october 17, 2013 at 10:04 pm been looking on internet for info about weight training and periods- i have the opposite problem- i have started a new kettle bell program and i keep having my period every 2 weeks, which is getting annoying. i have always heard that it can make you miss periods but what about having more of them? i have no plans on changing my workout routine any time soon- just figure it’s my body throwing a tantrum because it’s not use to doing this type of workout. thanks for the info! reply mindy says november 5, 2013 at 6:00 am having a similar experience to sara. although my periods are still regular, ever since starting a new exercise program i’ve experienced spotting and bleeding between my periods. really frustrating! i’m 5ft4 and around 106llbs. i go three times a week and do a mix of cardio and weights. the gym regime did coincide with stress in my personal life so i wonder whether the combined effect has caused the issues. i did see a doctor and had a scan but everything looks normal. i’m going to try relaxing my exercise a bit (boo hoo) and eat more to see if that helps! reply olivia says november 10, 2013 at 12:12 pm thanks erin for your post on this topic. it was comforting, helpful, but at some parts a little scary. i got my period in 6th grade (im in 12th grade now), and it’s never been regular since i got it. since 6th grade, i’ve been an avid cross country and track runner (3 season athlete). i’m even planning on running in college next year. i train a lot, and put my all into it because i love it and im good at it (5days a week, 1-2 hours we train, usually). however, this time i haven’t gotten my period in 10 months or more. don’t get me wrong, i love not having to worry about my period — i’m thankful it’s one less thing to worry about (i’m 105 lbs, 5’2 so i’m a little underweight but not much, i’m always stressed, and i exersise a lot). going into my sophomore year, i got an ultrasound for my amenorrhea but everything was fine. i took pills that induced it, but i was unhappy since i gained weight on it (the pills cause a little weight gain), and after it induced my period once, it never came back again. i’ve never been on birth control pills. and pathetically enough, i’ve never even kissed a guy, so i know there is no possibility for me to be pregnant. i just don’t want this to affect my fertility in the future, because i do want kids of my own. also, i’ve had moderately severe acne since 6th grade, so in 8th grade i went on accutane for 5 months and now in 12th grade, i’m currently almost at 2 months on accutane. accutane can reduce or stop menstrual cycles, but i had this problem before i took that medicine anyway. thank you! you’re someone i can relate to. reply jessica says november 16, 2013 at 1:57 pm thank you so much for posting this. it’s informative and helpful. i’ve been experiencing the same but for almost 2 months. i think i’ve been overdoing it with the excersize. i lift and do hiit cardio 5 times a week. i eat very healthy too and i’m sure eating healthy doesn’t affect your period. so you recommend taking it easy on the work outs right? i still want to get toned but i know if i take it easy(do a little less) i’m sure i can still reach my goal. it’s not like i’m competing or anything. i’m doing this for myself. reply erin says november 18, 2013 at 11:13 pm yes, take a week off to give your body a rest! reply viv says november 19, 2013 at 1:55 pm i know it is not a new post, but thank you so much for writing this!! i am having the similar situation. my period used to come on time…until i started the livefit training last month(a little background, i have been running 2-3 miles a day for a few months before starting weight lifting). now it is overdue for 14 days, it definitely freaks me out (got a test last week as you did, haha)! and i am going to cancun in less than 2 weeks, surely don’t want the period come during the vacation… i love the gym and i don’t know if i should keep training or what, such a pain… how long did you wait until you decided you had to take a rest? reply erin says november 25, 2013 at 2:38 pm if you continue your current routine and it hasn’t come yet..i’m guessing it will continue to be mia until you change your routine. be careful though because if you finally take a few days to relax in cancun, it could come then! if mine is delayed…i’ll stop training for 3-5 days and it comes. i think i went 3 months without getting it at one point…but i don’t remember exactly. reply clover says december 12, 2013 at 9:49 pm such a relief to read this post. i just bought a new treadmill and have been doing briskwalking for about 5km on it daily. yes, i do suffer body aches after that but i just persevered. it’s been 2-3 weeks. what i thought was my period came 4 days earlier and it was mainly spotting. it’s been 3 days and still no sign of my regular period. i am putting my exercise on hold for sometime now after i started to panic. thanks dear for the post. i am not as worried now. reply erin says december 13, 2013 at 9:50 am i’m so glad i can help relieve your worries!!! let me know how it turns out! reply annie says february 27, 2015 at 11:24 pm hi erin thanks for the blog very interesting. as a personal trainer i’m got used to missing my period but i also do egg donations which means i require to get my period and what i found was if i injected myself with vitamin b and stopped stressing about it ,it happened. give it a try maybe it could work for you 🙂 reply charlotte boyer says july 5, 2015 at 3:26 pm thanks so much for this post! i’ve tried running before, and as i am more on the lower-end weight-wise, it totally through my cycle off 😛 and this post really helped me to understand why! thanks again! -charlotte reply vanessa says july 8, 2015 at 4:48 am hi erin. thanks for this post. i have a question. i have been working out lately and doing excessive exercising and i’m late on my period, but i’m experiencing all of the symptoms, yet it’s not coming. what do you think is happening ?? reply erin weiss says july 16, 2015 at 2:29 pm it’s probably on it’s way! if you have the symptoms, you should be okay….so don’t stress out! reply orchid says august 2, 2015 at 2:16 pm thank you so much for your post!!! i started heavy strength/weight training 3days a week, 5 months ago. usually i take a week off about every 6 weeks to give my body a break, but i’ve been doing so well lately that i skipped my normal break and have been increasing my weights and training to 4 days a week for the last two months. low and behold, like an earlier comment, my period came at the right time, but it’s just been slight spotting and shedding the lining, but no blood. i’m so glad i came across your blog — i’m sure my increase in training must be the cause. phew!! reply airika says october 27, 2016 at 10:19 am i got my period a couple minutes after reading this. how ironic, thanks so much. reply erin weiss says october 28, 2016 at 2:17 pm omg that’s awesome. apparently this is a lucky post! haha congrats! reply sara says july 26, 2017 at 5:20 pm omg ! i worked out for 3 years , i am 6 days late for the first time and i have taken pregnancy tests! its was negative , why so sudden ? why now ? after 3 years ? i’m so worried! 🙁 reply grace chris says may 8, 2018 at 2:27 am i have been doing some butts and hips exercise for about one month now and my period is delayed by 5days. do you think the exercise is the cause? reply erin weiss says june 3, 2018 at 1:22 pm any change in workout may have an impact on your menstrual cycle! reply natalia says august 28, 2018 at 6:22 am thank you for this post. i used to work out 3 times a week and then switched to five times a week. (hiit and strength). i switched three months ago and the two times i have had my period since then, they have been completely weird compared to my usual periods. i took a pregnancy test during the last one, which came out negative. i don’t know what to do 🙁 i work out 30-40min each of those 5 days so i didn’t think i was working my body too hard or anything. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in