video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map social impact how your company can use its strengths for the greater good the vice president of social impact, sustainability, diversity and inclusion at sephora offers advice on how to improve your company's social impact. next article --shares add to queue jessica abo vip contributor founder of jabotv, media personality, keynote speaker and consultant march 27, 2020 2 min read opinions expressed by entrepreneur contributors are their own. corrie conrad believes doing good is good for business. as sephora vice president of social impact, sustainability, diversity and inclusion, she's particularly proud of the company's recent we belong to something beautiful campaign, “which is a public statement manifesto of our commitment to inclusion beyond just wanting to do better,” she says. “it’s a commitment to do more around our inclusion activities.” sephora launched a program called bold beauty for the transgender and gender-nonconforming community through its classes for confidence program. it also provided gender pronoun buttons to all of its teams in every store because they believe representation matters. conrad says companies have a really unique opportunity to use their strengths for the greater good of the community when it comes to diversity and inclusion. “a lot of times, we traditionally go to the charitable giving aspect and we think, oh, we'll give money away, and that's good and that's important.” but conrad adds each company is uniquely positioned to do something to meet the needs of those around them. for companies struggling with gender pronouns, inclusivity or recognizing people for who they are, conrad suggests starting with humility. “we've worked with community partners in the lgbtq community now for several years since we were starting to plan for bold beauty several years ago. they've advised us, they've coached us, they've given us feedback.” conrad sat down with jessica abo at the social innovation summit in los angeles to share sephora’s journey and her tips to help your company make a positive social impact. more from entrepreneur get heaping discounts to books you love delivered straight to your inbox. we’ll feature a different book each week and share exclusive deals you won’t find anywhere else. sign up now jumpstart your business. entrepreneur insider is your all-access pass to the skills, experts, and network you need to get your business off the ground—or take it to the next level. join now are you paying too much for business insurance? do you have critical gaps in your coverage? trust entrepreneur to help you find out. get your quote now related books unfiltered buy from unfiltered buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read career rehab buy from career rehab buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read napoleon hill's success masters buy from napoleon hill's success masters buy from amazon indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read elephants before unicorns buy from elephants before unicorns buy from amazon indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read stress-less leadership buy from stress-less leadership buy from amazon ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read entrepreneur voices on company culture buy from entrepreneur voices on company culture buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read latest on entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account