kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! how does waffle house stay open during disasters? posted by jason kottke sep 03, 2019 waffle house is prepared to make you breakfast at all hours of the day in any kind of weather. the restaurant chain is so widely respected for its severe weather preparedness that a former director of fema started using their stores as an indicator of how bad a particular storm or disaster was: the “waffle house index,” first coined by federal emergency management agency director w. craig fugate, is based on the extent of operations and service at the restaurant following a storm and indicates how prepared a business is in case of a natural disaster. for example, if a waffle house store is open and offering a full menu, the index is green. if it is open but serving from a limited menu, it’s yellow. when the location has been forced to close, the index is red. because waffle house is well prepared for disasters, kouvelis said, it’s rare for the index to hit red. for example, the joplin, mo., waffle house survived the tornado and remained open. annie blanks recently visited the “waffle house storm center” in advance of hurricane dorian’s predicted landfall in florida. when any of the stores are in danger of being hit by severe weather, so-called “jump teams” are activated to be ready to deploy wherever needed. jump teams are made up of waffle house contractors, construction workers, gas line experts, restaurant operators, food providers and other associates who are assembled and ready to go wherever needed at a moment’s notice. their purpose is to help relieve local waffle house operators and employees who need to evacuate, be with their families or tend to their homes when a storm hits, and help make sure restaurants are able to open quickly after a storm or stay open during a storm. on twitter, blanks shared a photo of the four different pared-down menus that waffle house prepares for disasters. (via @lauravw) more about... annie blanks business food restaurants waffle house ads via carbon kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives