start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising work advertising how to be happy at work and find fulfillment in your career kileen robinson kileen helps people live their most productive lives possible, one article at a time. read full profile share pin it tweet share email if you’re going to spend 1/3 of your life at work, you should enjoy it, right? i know that’s easier said than done. difficult coworkers, less-than-desirable tasks, or even just being in the wrong position can all lead to a lack of enjoyment and fulfillment in your work. but what if i told you it doesn’t have to be this way? or better yet, if you struggle with all of the above (and then some), what if i told you that enjoying your work and finding fulfillment regardless of those obstacles is possible? i know this because i’ve been there too. years ago, i struggled to get through each day, much less find real fulfillment, in the office. now, even after the toughest days on the job, i still come away with feelings of pride, accomplishment, and fulfillment. the best news is, so can you. if you’re ready to make those hours count and find happiness and fulfillment in the office, then read on to find out how to be happy at work and find fulfillment in your career: 1. discover the root(s) of the problem for this first step, we’ll need to think back to 8th-grade physics (humor me). we all know newton’s 3rd law, “for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.” when you think about it, the same can be said outside of physics, and we see this law play out in our daily lives, day after day. simply put, all the issues we deal with in the office (and life in general) affect us in a noticeable way. if you’re appreciated at work, like the work you do and receive frequent praise, promotions, or raises, then this will probably have an altogether positive effect on your life in the office. but what if we reverse this? what if you feel under appreciated, get passed up for promotions, or get denied raises? this is sure to affect the way you feel at work on a negative level. advertising so, before you can implement the steps of feeling happy and fulfilled at work, we first have to discover the reasons why you don’t feel that way already. think about it, write a list, or make a mental note. run through all the reasons you’re dissatisfied in the office, and don’t hold back. knowing the exact obstacles you’re facing will make overcoming them that much easier. in fact, as a side-challenge to this article, i recommend picking the top three reasons contributing to your dissatisfaction at work and using the following tips to tackle them. if you need a little help on this, this article can help you: how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up 2. practice gratitude for an instant uplift did you know the simple act of feeling grateful can increase your happiness and make you more fulfilled at work?[1] well, it’s true, and it’s scientifically proven. dr. lisa firestone notes that practicing gratitude “reminds us of what we lacked in the past.” meaning, it serves as both a boost to happiness and a bit of a wake-up call that things have been or could be, much worse. trying to conjure up feelings of gratitude can seem almost impossible when your work situation seems bleak, but hear me out: there are incredibly easy ways to get started and it doesn’t involve trying to “force” yourself to feel grateful about things that stress you out. advertising for an instant pick-me-up, try this: find a loose piece of paper, a blank sticky note, or anything you can write on, be it physical or digital. list just three things that you are absolutely without-a-doubt thankful for in your life. now here’s the trick: don’t just list what you’re grateful for, you have to list why you’re grateful for them, too. for example, simply saying “i’m grateful for my kids” will probably make you feel good, sure, but what if we could amplify the warm, fuzzy feeling into real, lasting motivation? instead, write the reason you’re so thankful for your children. is it because they make you laugh and forget about other stressors? or maybe they help to remind you of why you go to work every day in the first place? whatever your reasons may be, jot them down and keep your list somewhere you can see it while you work. a quick glance at your gratitude list throughout the day can provide powerful, positive motivation to keep going. bonus: if you can find just three things to be thankful for that specifically relate to your job, and list why those things make you grateful, your list can also help you find fulfillment in your work itself which can give you an even bigger boost of positivity throughout the day. 3. take meaningful time for yourself we all know creating a strong work-life balance can be crucial to feeling satisfied in our jobs, but rarely do we ever address how we’re spending our time outside of work. many of us survive a 9-hour work day and commute home only to find ourselves busy with our personal to-do lists, running a household, and taking care of a child (or 2 or 3, and so on). if you spend all your time working, whether in the office or within your household, you’re going to feel drained at some point. this is why setting meaningful time for yourself every day is highly important. advertising look, i get it: i don’t know anyone in the working world who can shun all responsibility for a 3-movie marathon or happy hour with friends whenever they feel like it. but finding time for yourself, be it just 30 minutes to an hour, can really make a difference in how you feel at work. this works because you’ll have time to actually relax and let the day’s stress melt away while you enjoy something just for you. the to-do lists and stressors will still be there after you’re refreshed and ready to tackle them. no time for me-time? try this: if you have a busy household, you’ll need to capitalize on a block of time you know will be completely uninterrupted. the easiest way to do this: try waking up 30 minutes to an hour earlier than usual (or push bedtime back an hour if you’re a night owl, like me) and take time to do something you enjoy. this could be reading with a cup of tea, catching up on facebook, spending time on a passion project—anything! as long as it’s meaningful to you, it works! bonus: starting your day with meaningful time for yourself can set you up to have a positive mood that lasts well into office hours, and having your me-time in the evening can give you something positive to look forward to during the day. 4. get productive and feel accomplished don’t you just love the feeling of checking the last item off of a hefty to-do list? that’s because self-motivation can be a huge driver of positivity and success. when we accomplish something, no matter how small, it makes us feel good, plain and simple. applying this tactic to your daily work can be the motivator you need to find fulfillment during the daily office grind. while there are tons of steps to get more done at work, i’ll share my personal favorite: prioritizing. now, many people handle prioritizing differently. some like to tackle the little tasks first so they can spend focused time on the big to-dos. others like to knock out the big items first and get to the smaller ones when they can. advertising no matter which camp you’re in, you may be missing one crucial step: time management. so how’s this work? when you factor in the amount of time your priorities will take, it can transform your productivity ten-fold. say you have three top priorities for the day. you might jump into the smaller ones or the bigger ones depending on your preferred method, and then find yourself out of time and bringing work home with you at the end of the day. this is prevented when you factor in time. knowing how long each item will take, or deliberately setting specific blocks of time for your priorities can help you accomplish more in the same 8-9 (or 12) hours that you typically spend at work. try this: take a look at your priorities and consider how long they should take. pop into your google calendar (or filofax, whatever works for you) and schedule time to work on your priority items around any important meetings or events of the day. the most important thing to remember is to stick to your dedicated time. often, when we know exactly how long we have to work on something (and honor this time limit), we’re motivated to get more done on time to avoid taking work home at the end of the day. the bottom line there’s no need to waste 1/3 of our lives feeling unsatisfied at work. luckily, you now have the tools to get started, take back your time, and become happy and fulfilled at work again. more resources about fulfilling career what to do when you hate your job but want a successful career signs you need a career change (and how to change for success) how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up 11 signs that you should leave your job how to get motivated to work and start off your day with positivity featured photo credit: ellyot via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: the healing power of gratitude share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up how to prioritize right in 10 minutes and work 10x faster 7 strategies to increase productivity in the workplace advertising advertising more by this author kileen robinson kileen helps people live their most productive lives possible, one article at a time. 17 best careers worth going back to school for at 40 how to be happy at work and find fulfillment in your career how to work under pressure so you won’t burn yourself out 15 productive things to do when you have extra downtime advertising trending in work 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 4 5 signs you’re ready for a career change 5 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it more by this author kileen robinson kileen helps people live their most productive lives possible, one article at a time. 17 best careers worth going back to school for at 40 how to be happy at work and find fulfillment in your career how to work under pressure so you won’t burn yourself out 15 productive things to do when you have extra downtime trending in work 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 4 5 signs you’re ready for a career change 5 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it read next how to identify and leverage your personal strengths 17 must-have work related skills for a successful career 10 essential skills to become a successful team leader 7 things that decrease team motivation (without you even noticing) advertising advertising work smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) brian lee chief of product management at lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email taking your work to the next level means setting and keeping career goals. a career goal is a targeted objective that explains what you want your ultimate profession to be. defining career goals is a critical step to achieving success. you need to know where you’re going in order to get there. knowing what your career goals are isn’t just important for you–it’s important for potential employers too. the relationship between an employer and an employee works best when your goals for the future and their goals align. saying, “oh, i don’t know. i’ll do anything,” makes you seem indecisive, and opens you up to taking on ill-fitting tasks that won’t lead you to your dream life. career goal templates’ one-size-fits-all approach won’t consider your unique goals and experiences. they won’t help you stand out, and they may not reflect your full potential. in this article, i’ll help you to define your career goals with smart goal framework, and will provide you with a list of examples goals for work and career. table of contents how to define your career goal with smart why you need an individual development plan 40 examples of goals for work & career for changing a job for switching career path for getting a promotion for acing a job interview career goal setting faqs summary more tips about setting work goals how to define your career goal with smart instead of relying on a generalized framework to explain your vision, use a tried-and-true goal-setting model. smart is an acronym for “specific, measurable, action-oriented, realistic with timelines.”[1] the smart framework demystifies goals by breaking them into smaller steps. helpful hints when setting smart career goals: advertising start with short-term goals first. work on your short-term goals, and then progress the long-term interests.[2] short-term goals are those things which take 1-3 years to complete. long-term goals take 3-5 years to do. as you succeed in your short-term goals, that success should feed into accomplishing your long-term goals. be specific, but don’t overdo it. you need to define your career goals, but if you make them too specific, then they become unattainable. instead of saying, “i want to be the next ceo of apple, where i’ll create a billion-dollar product,” try something like, “my goal is to be the ceo of a successful company.” get clear on how you’re going to reach your goals. you should be able to explain the actions you’ll take to advance your career. if you can’t explain the steps, then you need to break your goal down into more manageable chunks. don’t be self-centered. your work should not only help you advance, but it should also support the goals of your employer. if your goals differ too much, then it might be a sign that the job you’ve taken isn’t a good fit. if you want to learn more about setting smart goals, watch the video below to learn how you can set smart career goals. after you’re clear on how to set smart goals, you can use this framework to tackle other aspects of your work. for instance, you might set smart goals to improve your performance review, look for a new job, or shift your focus to a different career. we’ll cover examples of ways to use smart goals to meet short-term career goals in the next section. why you need an individual development plan setting goals is one part of the larger formula for success. you may know what you want to do, but you also have to figure out what skills you have, what you lack, and where your greatest strengths and weaknesses are. one of the best ways to understand your capabilities is by using the science careers individual development plan skills assessment. it’s free, and all you need to do is register an account and take a few assessments. advertising these assessments will help you determine if your career goals are realistic. you’ll come away with a better understanding of your unique talents and skill-sets. you may decide to change some of your career goals or alter your timeline based on what you learn. 40 examples of goals for work & career all this talk of goal-setting and self-assessment may sound great in theory, but perhaps you need some inspiration to figure out what your goals should be. for changing a job attend more networking events and make new contacts. achieve a promotion to __________ position. get a raise. plan and take a vacation this year. agree to take on new responsibilities. develop meaningful relationships with your coworkers and clients. ask for feedback on a regular basis. learn how to say, “no,” when you are asked to take on too much. delegate tasks that you no longer need to be responsible for. strive to be in a leadership role in __ number of years. for switching career path pick up and learn a new skill. find a mentor. become a volunteer in the field that interests you. commit to getting training or going back to school. read the most recent books related to your field. decide whether you are happy with your work-life balance and make changes if necessary. [3] plan what steps you need to take to change careers.[4] compile a list of people who could be character references or submit recommendations. commit to making __ number of new contacts in the field this year. create a financial plan. for getting a promotion reduce business expenses by a certain percentage. stop micromanaging your team members. become a mentor. brainstorm ways that you could improve your productivity and efficiency at work seek a new training opportunity to address a weakness.[5] find a way to organize your work space.[6] seek feedback from a boss or trusted coworker every week/ month/ quarter. become a better communicator. find new ways to be a team player. learn how to reduce work hours without compromising productivity. for acing a job interview identify personal boundaries at work and know what you should do to make your day more productive and manageable. identify steps to create a professional image for yourself. go after the career of your dreams to find work that does not feel like a job. look for a place to pursue your interest and apply your knowledge and skills. find a new way to collaborate with experts in your field. identify opportunities to observe others working in the career you want. become more creative and break out of your comfort zone. ask to be trained more relevant skills for your work. ask for opportunities to explore the field and widen your horizon set your eye on a specific award at work and go for it. career goal setting faqs i’m sure you still have some questions about setting your own career goals, so here i’m listing out the most commonly asked questions about career goals. 1. what if i’m not sure what i want my career to be? if you’re uncertain, be honest about it. let the employer know as much as you know about what you want to do. express your willingness to use your strengths to contribute to the company. when you take this approach, back up your claim with some examples. if you’re not even sure where to begin with your career, check out this guide: how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising 2. is it okay to lie about my career goals? lying to potential employers is bound to end in disaster. in the interview, a lie can make you look foolish because you won’t know how to answer follow up questions. even if you think your career goal may not precisely align with the employer’s expectations for a long-term hire, be open and honest. there’s probably more common ground than they realize, and it’s up to you to bridge any gaps in expectations. being honest and explaining these connections shows your employer that you’ve put a lot of thought into this application. you aren’t just telling them what they want to hear. 3. is it better to have an ambitious goal, or should i play it safe? you should have a goal that challenges you, but smart goals are always reasonable. if you put forth a goal that is way beyond your capabilities, you will seem naive. making your goals too easy shows a lack of motivation. employers want new hires who are able to self-reflect and are willing to take on challenges. 4. can i have several career goals? it’s best to have one clearly-defined career goal and stick with it. (of course, you can still have goals in other areas of your life.) having a single career goal shows that you’re capable of focusing, and it shows that you like to accomplish what you set out to do. advertising on the other hand, you might have multiple related career goals. this could mean that you have short-term goals that dovetail into your ultimate long-term career goal. you might also have several smaller goals that feed into a single purpose. for example, if you want to become a lawyer, you might become a paralegal and attend law school at the same time. if you want to be a school administrator, you might have initial goals of being a classroom teacher and studying education policy. in both cases, these temporary jobs and the extra education help you reach your ultimate goal. summary you’ll have to devote some time to setting career goals, but you’ll be so much more successful with some direction. remember to: set smart goals. smart goals are specific, measurable, action-oriented, and realistic with timelines. when you set goals with these things in mind, you are likely to achieve the outcomes you want. have short-term and long-term goals. short-term career goals can be completed in 1-3 years, while long-term goals will take 3-5 years to finish. your short-term goals should set you up to accomplish your long-term goals. assess your capabilities by coming up with an individual development plan. knowing how to set goals won’t help you if you don’t know yourself. understand what your strengths and weaknesses are by taking some self-assessments. choose goals that are appropriate to your ultimate aims. your career goals should be relevant to one another. if they aren’t, then you may need to narrow your focus. your goals should match the type of job that you want and the quality of life that you want to lead. be clear about your goals with potential employers. always be honest with potential employers about what you want to do with your life. if your goals differ from the company’s objectives, find a way bridge the gap between what you want for yourself and what your employer expects. by doing goal-setting work now, you’ll be able to make conscious choices on your career path. you can always adjust your plan if things change for you, but the key is to give yourself a road map for success. more tips about setting work goals 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 15 personal goals for work to make you stand out from your coworkers how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals featured photo credit: tyler franta via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ achievit: the history and evolution of smart goals [2] ^ she knows: career planning: smart goals [3] ^ career addict: 13 examples of achievable career goals [4] ^ job interview site.com: career goals: examples of career goals and objectives [5] ^ science: goal-setting strategies for scientific and career success [6] ^ udemy: career goal examples: top 6 achievable career goals share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 15 personal goals for work to help you succeed how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising advertising more by this author brian lee chief of product management at lifehack how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) how to answer behavioral based interview questions smartly 7 best project management apps to boost productivity 100 incredible life hacks that make life so much easier 10 best new products that people don’t know about advertising trending in work 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 4 5 signs you’re ready for a career change 5 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it read next how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.