blog how to blogging guide tech news more android & ios pc & laptop windows blogger / wordpress seo sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search xtechkr blog how to blogging guide tech news more android & ios pc & laptop windows blogger / wordpress seo how to increase website traffic? | get more valued audience by xtechkr 0 share7 tweet share pin12 share 19 shares once you have started a business, a blog or a website with a motive to at least gain some growth, start-off your business and engage with people around the globe, making leads, you need page views. you can drive page-views through various method which may include different methods, which determine what amount of traffic you can generate, which might be organic traffic or a bot-traffic or unusual traffic which does not make any difference to your businesses growth. then, how can you increase website traffic? table of content 1 how to increase website traffic | best ways to increase website traffic 1.1 best tips to increase website traffic 2 how to increase website traffic? read the things written below very carefully! 2.1 1. improve your website’s load speed 2.2 how to make your website opening fast? 2.2.1 do you want to speed up the loading speed of your website? to do this, follow the steps given down: 2.3 2. use and advertise on social media 2.3.1 what is social media? 2.3.2 which is the most popular social media on the web? 2.4 facebook 2.5 twitter 2.5.1 include hashtags in your posts 2.6 3. seo (search engine optimization) 2.7 best search engines 2.7.1 google 2.7.2 bing 2.8 4. get listed in online directories 2.9 5. build backlinks 2.10 6. target long-tail keywords 2.11 7. add your website in google my business listing how to increase website traffic | best ways to increase website traffic website traffic is an important aspect and means of business growth. it helps you determine how well your website is doing in terms of different aspect such as audience engagement, lead generation, search engine visibility, social media popularity, digital marketing, credibility, increase valuable and converting customers, build authority, trust et cetera. actually the question itself does not makes sense because once you have started a business, you want people, engaging audience that will convert to gain profit or any personal or individuals aim on any aspect. yet achieving any kind of benefits through your business or a blog or a website requires driving traffic to your website the right away with engaging audience. in this post, we’ll cover some of the ways you can use to drive traffic to your website in a way that impacts your companies background, its backbone and base, the strategies which not only our website practices but all the businesses and websites which are popular out there in this field. in this section we’ll get inside a more detailed and most effective (reliable) ways for increasing website traffic. best tips to increase website traffic we all want to increase website traffic. who does not? everybody who owns a site wants to get more traffic. everybody wants to make their site visible on all the search engines and make their site popular. all of us want to drive more traffic and compete with other competitors. so to solve these problems, i have written this article. read this article from top to bottom. i also use these techniques for getting traffic and it really works for me to increase traffic and get new visitors to my website. how to increase website traffic? read the things written below very carefully! 1. improve your website’s load speed website loading speed is a major problem. due to slow loading of the website, visitors don’t want to open your site as they find it slow. visitors don’t prefer/want to wait long as they need their information they are looking for fast and due to the slow loading of the website they will move on to another site and you will face traffic problems. according to many seo experts, they advise and say to make sure to make website loading speed fast. friends this is one of the main thing that you must try! how to make your website opening fast? do you want to speed up the loading speed of your website? to do this, follow the steps given down: delete plugin or widgets from the website which are not in use. get a light and small template for your website. don’t use too many menus on your website. use content delivery network (cdn) use a caching system. use wp super cache plugin if you are using wordpress platform to speed up your website. use premium hosting for better result. use optimized images. compress your images before uploading. do not mix up javascript and others together. do not use the same code multiple times. maintain your page site below 5 mb. test your website speed on gtmetrix gtmetrix and pagespeed insights are the best websites to check your sites loading speed. it not only shows the loading speed of your website but also shows you what is really affecting your site from loading speed. it also gives you some trick on how you can optimize your website and help you remove the problems that affect your site from loading slow. from there you will be able to make your site load fast. 2. use and advertise on social media social media is one of the most popular marketing tools for content creators, and plays a vital role in driving traffic to your website. today, social media is used by each and every person even if they are literate or illiterate. using it does not require any kind of programming skills or anything. just what we need is an internet connection. everybody uses social media. social media is used for communication and sharing knowledge via a network. social media has become the power of the internet. if your content is good enough for the audiences, chances are your content goes viral. if it happens, then with only one content you are going to get more traffic. but many of us don’t share our posts, which also results in low traffic. this way you can turn your social media audience into website visitors, and draw traffic from their networks if you post shareable content. creating useful content is free, and is not as hard as it may seem. you are the expert in your product/service; your job is to simplify it for your audience. what is social media? social media is a platform or a place which is used by peoples to share knowledge, ideas or to communicate with family and friends. which is the most popular social media on the web? there are lots of social media and social networks but the question is which one is the most popular social media to share your contents? here are some given social media. facebook facebook is an american corporation and also the biggest social media. facebook is owned by mark zuckerberg. facebook is located in menlo park, california. there are 600 million mobile users that mean if you are going to share your content on social media then you are going to get lots of traffic on your website. so, share your contents on facebook by creating a facebook id, facebook group or facebook page. twitter twitter is an online news and social media where twitter users post tweets like news their contents, videos etc. twitter is owned by jack dorsey. and twitter is located in san francisco, california, united states. if your website is news based then you can use twitter because there are 328 million peoples who use twitter. we can use facebook, instagram, twitter and linkedin to promote our blog posts and other useful pages which can help you drive thousands of traffic without any hassle and having to spend time and money on seo and promotion. these two are best social media on the web in my opinion. there are countless others too which kinda works the same but with different audience engagements and audience profile. include hashtags in your posts hashtags are trendy today. with hashtags on your posts, you can promote your web pages and blog posts that help extend your reach beyond your reach and get discovered by million or users out there searching for you and similar products and services you provide. the more eyes audience give on your links, the more free traffic you’re getting to your website with the audience type you desire. 3. seo (search engine optimization) many of you might be thinking, what is seo (search engine optimization)? seo (search engine optimization) is a process of getting quality and quantity traffic in your website from search engines like google, bing, yandex, baidu etc. many of you might now be thinking how can we get traffic with the help of seo. for you to get traffic with seo and search engines, you should index your site in various search engines. sitemaps come handy with this. with certain verification that you own the domain and a post url or a sitemap, it will help search engine crawl and index your site with the content you one to get ranked in their search engine and if somebody searches a topic in search engine with the keyword you target, you are getting thousands of audience reach to your website. this will give you a lot of traffic to your website. seo is the most important thing for website to get the quality and huge amount of traffic in your blog. i am also not getting good quality traffic from google because i am also a beginner in google and learning something new. but if you have established a website and if you don’t know seo then start learning seo from not now. go to youtube and search for seo tutorial there you will find a huge amount of best seo tutorials by seo experts. only getting traffic is not enough, you should be able to convert it into revenue. there are a bunch of programs that pays you for letting them run ads on your network, some of the best as adsense, media.net and taboola. you definitely want to check these out. best search engines here are the best search engines with billions of active users every day. if you guys can get traffic from here then your site will get lots of traffic. google google inc. is an american multinational technology company. google gives information which is searched on the internet using the search engine google. google now processes over 40,000 search queries every second according to internet live statics. and 3.5 billion searches per day and 1.2 trillion searches per year, it has become the rank 1 search engines in the whole world. think if you get traffic from google then your website will get a blast. bing bing is a search engine owned by microsoft. many peoples use bing. bing was introduced on june 1, 2009. bing is good for the search engine in foreign countries many peoples use bing to search and it is the best alternative to google. try to get traffic from bing to increase your website traffic. 4. get listed in online directories another way to increase traffic to your website is to get listed in online directories and review sites. from most of these sites, you can have a link or more to your website. actively updating these listings and getting positive reviews is likely to result in more website traffic and audience reach. many directories like yelp have a strong domain authority. so, if you get your business on yelp, there’s a chance that your page could rank high for relevant keyword searches which will also lead in building your own domain authority. 5. build backlinks a backlink is a link to your website from another website. backlinks from relevant websites or pages with quite nice incoming traffic already, will get your business recognized in front of a larger audience. along with this, it will also drive qualified traffic to your website. google gives quite a hefty importance to quality backlinks. if you are to achieve this, along with passing of link juice and improving you domain authority, it will lead to higher ranking of your pages and tons of traffic for you. 6. target long-tail keywords almost all websites out there, compete for short-tail keywords as they are often searched more frequently. due to this competition increases as large number of small and big businesses target to rank on such keywords, so it becomes more difficult to rank higher on search engines for us. targeting a long-tail keywords, on the other hand, gives you a better chance of ranking higher (even on the first page) —and ranking higher means more traffic. for your joy, there are tons of long-tail keywords for you to target on with less keyword difficulty. if you successfully rank on these keywords, your website will start experiencing a lot of traffic. what you just need is some hard work and great research with enthusiasm. 7. add your website in google my business listing an optimized google my business listing gets 7x more visits than an incomplete one. don’t forget that your listing on google my buisness links to your website, so this is a great way to get more local traffic to your website. google is getting smarter and smarter with its algorithms and results, trying to improve and add more features for the users. if your listing provides all of the information, a potential customer would like, they might give your website a visit and contact your business directly—even better than a website visit! share7 tweet share pin12 share 19 shares subscribe to our newsletter! "it's all about android, ios, pc, gaming, rumors, blogging and tech news" subscribe! you have successfully subscribed! join our mailing list to receive the latest news and updates from our team. next articletop ten best [addictive] games in android to play in 2020 xtechkr https://www.xtechkr.com my name is kris regmi [xtechkr]. i'm the founder and owner of xtechkr. i am a student interested in blogging. xtechkr is basically a site where i post post’s about android, pc, gaming and much more. for now, i am studying in little angels' school. i have started this site not for profit but as a passion of mine. i heartily welcome everyone and thanks for giving time to visit my site. i am really happy to see you here! leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. about us xtechkr is a tech site where we provide you tech solutions. it is basically a platform where you can learn about android, pc, how to, rumors, games, tips, tricks, tech news and more. a simple blog that help with wordpress, seo, making money, blogging, gaming, how to, tips and tricks etc. follow us about us contact us disclaimer privacy policy terms of services © xtechkr - all rights reserved