skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation home / articles / how to repeat text as a background image in css using element() author ollie williams 1 comment join conversation published mar 26, 2020 background-image element() personalized marketing with mailchimp there’s a design trend i’ve seen popping up all over the place. maybe you’ve seen it too. it’s this sort of thing where text is repeated over and over. a good example is the price comparison website, gocompare, who used it in a major multi-channel advertising campaign. nike has used it as well, like in this advertisement: diggin' that orange! (source) i couldn’t help but wonder how i would implement this sort of design for the web. i mean, we could obviously just repeat the text in markup. we could also export the design as an image using something like photoshop, but putting text in images is bad for both seo and accessibility. then there's the fact that, even if we did use actual text, it’s not like we’d want a screen reader speak it out. versatility versatility versatility versatility ok, stop already! these considerations make it seem unrealistic to do something like this on the web. then i found myself pining for the long-existing, yet badly supported, element() feature in css. it enables the use of any html element as a background image, whether it be a single button element, or an entire <div> full of content. according to the spec: the element() function only reproduces the appearance of the referenced element, not the actual content and its structure. authors should only use this for decorative purposes. for our purposes, we’d be referencing a text element to get that repeating effect. let’s define an id we can apply to the text element we want to repeat. let’s call it #thingy. note that when we use #thingy, we’ve got to prefix the element() value with -moz-. while element() has been supported in firefox since 2010, it sadly hasn’t landed in any other browser since. .element {
  background-image: -moz-element(#thingy);
} here’s a somewhat loose recreation of the nike advertisement we saw earlier. again, firefox is required to see the demo as intended. codepen embed fallback see how that works conceptually? i placed an element (#versatility) on the page, hid it by giving it zero height, set it as the background-image on the body, then used the background-repeat property to duplicate it vertically down the page. the element() background is live. that means the background-image appearance on the thing using it will change if the referenced html element changes. it’s the same sort of deal when working with custom properties: change the variable and it updates everywhere it’s used. there are, of course, other use cases for this property. check out how preethi used it to make in-page scrolling navigation for an article. you could also use a html canvas element as a background if you want to get fancy. one way i’ve used it is to show screenshots of pages in a table of contents. vincent de oliveira, has documented some wildly creative examples. here's an image-reflection effect, if you’re into retro web design: codepen embed fallback pretty neat, right? again, i wish i could say this is a production-ready approach to get that neat design effect, but things are what they are at the moment. actually, that’s a good reminder to make your voice heard for features you’d like to see implemented in browsers. there are open tickets in webkit and chromium where you can do that. hopefully we’ll eventually get this feature in safari-world and chrome-world browsers. our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. comments rl brown permalink to comment# march 26, 2020 further examples of the trend @ https://www.trendlist.org/trends/repetition reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. get the css-tricks newsletter notify me of follow-up comments by email. copy and paste this code: micuno * leave this field empty all comments are held for moderation. we'll publish all comments that are on topic, not rude, and adhere to our code of conduct. you'll even get little stars if you do an extra good job. you may write comments in markdown. this is the best way to post any code, inline like `<div>this</div>` or multiline blocks within triple backtick fences (```) with double new lines before and after. want to tell us something privately, like pointing out a typo or stuff like that? contact us. we have a code of conduct. be cool. be helpful. the web is a big place. have fun. high five. related how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers