home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership how to solve your turnover problem michael and megan 00:29:20 download transcript to lead a growing business, you need a strong team. but finding and keeping talent is a challenge. sometimes it seems that good people leave faster than you can hire them. you’ve added all the perks you can think of, but nothing will stop the revolving door. why does staffing have to be so hard? our decades of experience have taught us that staffing, like everything else in business, boils down to one thing: vision. you need to stop looking at the secondary causes of turnover, and address the underlying problem. either you don’t have a vision, or your team does not understand it. don’t worry, we’ve identified three clear steps to getting your team rallied around your vision. take these actions, and you’ll see turnover decrease and engagement skyrocket. you feel new energy in your business. and you find good people begging to join your team. in this episode, you will— learn the real root cause of turnover. find out why this problem is particularly acute for managing millennials. identify the three steps you can take to improve retention. discover the difference between a vision statement and a vision script. see the four key aspects of your company that you must clarify for your team. understand why the stakes are so high for employee retention. gain valuable tips for connecting team members to your vision for the company. after you’ve listened to this episode, here’s your next step. ask three of your team members this simple question: “what is the vision of our company?” their answer will tell you exactly where to begin in solving your turnover problem. you can do this! have you shared lead to win? if you haven’t shared this podcast with a friend or coworker, would you do that right now? you are our very best source for discovering new listeners! drop a link to this episode into a text message or your favorite social channel. your friends will thank you. don’t forget the hashtag #leadtowin. and if you haven’t had a chance to review the podcast yet, we’d love to hear your thoughts. you can do that on itunes or wherever you listen to podcasts. we’re eager to hear from you guys, and we do read every single review! resources from this episode the vision-driven leader by michael hyatt resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe the vision-driven leader by michael hyatt posted on tuesday, january 21, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed