skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me how i afford to travel full-time the single most popular question i get is “how can you afford to travel?” i must answer this question in one way or another about 20 times everyday… so this blog post is long overdue! keep reading to find out all my tips, tricks and secrets for how i afford to travel full-time. my goal in writing this is to tell you that traveling is cheaper than you may think, and show you that it’s not hard to travel full-time if you set your mind to it and take advantage of the opportunities around you. first thing’s first: no, i am not rich. no, i don’t have rich parents. and no, i don’t have a huge savings account. yes, i make all of my own money to fund my travels, through hard work, patience, taking advantages of opportunities and being a smart money spender. i want you all to understand that i am just a normal guy from arizona. i don’t have a movie debuting on the red carpet of hollywood. i don’t have a top song on the radio, and i don’t have a best-selling book on amazon. but i have figured out a way to subsidize my expenses (i.e. travel for free) and make traveling my full-time job. and as of this year (2016), i am starting to make decent profit. find out below how i created this lifestyle for myself, and how you can do it, too. i primarily make money in 5 different ways: 1. travel blogging (#1 source of income) 2. sponsored/press trips (#2 source of income) 3. social media campaigns (#3 source of income) 4. snapchat collaborations (#4 source of income) 5. teaching english (#5 source of income) before i dive in to each topic, i will first provide you with some general tips which are necessary to understand if you want to travel full-time. please take note of the following: 5 best tips for how i afford to travel 1. be flexible – you simply can’t be constrained on exact days and times to travel, beacuse you can get killer cheap flight deals by being flexible. opening up your schedule is something you have to do if you want to travel full-time. 2. be a smart money spender – if you want to travel, then prioritize it. you gotta stick to consuming only the things that you need, not what you want. this means stop spending money on new rims for your car or a that expensive jacket that you don’t need (for example). i only own a small amount of possessions like clothing, my computer, iphone, gopro and a few other things… that’s about it. 3. look for study/work abroad opportunities – when i studied abroad in prague during my junior year of college, i visited 20+ european countries during my 5 month semester. likewise, i visited 20+ asian countries when i taught english in korea for 18 months after school. if teaching english isn’t your thing, don’t worry beacuse there are tons of other jobs that you can find abroad. discover these opportunities at the end of this blog post. 4. get rid of big commitments – this one is hard for many people, and understandably so… but if you want to make the big lifestyle change, then you need to let go of the big things holding you back in the past and move on to the future. sell your car, get rid of your housing payments and car payments. let your friends or parents take care of your dog. if you’re in a miserable relationship, you have to let go and move on with your life. 5. stop watching tv – do you realize how many hours of your life that you waste by watching netflix? i recommend starting a blog (or something of that nature) and use those precious hours towards something that can benefit your future. for the remainder of this post, i’m going to describe in detail the 5 ways i make money (in order with #1 being the most profitable): 5 ways i make money to travel full-time 1. travel blogging believe it or not, i make a living from this travel blog, and my original blog called hungry partier, which i started in 2013 when i moved to south korea. travel blogging requires a lot of patience, hard work and dedication, but i’m telling you right now, it’s entirely possible and reasonable. *my ultimate secret is to get a job teaching english overseas and start a travel blog on the side. that’s exactly what i did, and i had plenty of free time to put into my blog and build it up to what it is today.* the 2 major ways i make money from travel blogging are through affiliate links and sponsorships. affiliate marketing is when a business rewards affiliates (i.e. bloggers) for each visitor brought about by the affiliate’s own marketing efforts (i.e. on their website). for example, if i am an affiliate for amazon, then i can link to some of my favorite items on amazon in a blog post. if someone clicks my link and purchases the item(s) i recommend, then i get a small commission. my biggest affiliate is with a tefl company that i recommend called mytefl, so every time someone buys that class, i get paid $35 at no additional cost to the person buying the class. get it? it’s almost as if i am a salesman for that company. if i sell something, i get paid. the other way i make money is through sponsorships. these are when a travel-related company or brand pays me (~$400-$1000) to promote them on my blog and on my social media channels. keep in mind that i always write my own opinions and give advice/recommendations based on my experiences with the product or service. be careful though. you don’t want to be a “sell out” and only go for the money, beacuse then you will lose trust with your audience very quickly. i see this happen all the time with new bloggers. 2. sponsored/press trips a sponsored trip is when a tourism board invites me to their country and i promote my experience on my blog and social media channels. some recent examples of sponsored trips are when i went to germany with the germany tourism office and when i went to suriname with suriname tourism. both tourism offices sponsored a trip for me to go around their country and promote it on my blog, snapchat and instagram channels. not only do i get free flights, hotels & tours, but i also charge a fee for my services. press trips are not as common as i’d like, beacuse they take a lot of planning, and frankly, many tourism offices don’t have the budgets to sponsor trips. 3. social media campaigns a social media campaign is when a travel brand or company pays me to promote their product or service on my blog or social media channels. it’s called product placement, and it’s the same concept for how nike used to pay tiger woods to wear their logo on the golf course (although that was a multi-million dollar contract). i have worked with a variety of brands in the past, most notably shotka vodka, and i have an upcoming campaign with citizen watches. whenever i post about using these products, i always do so in a very natural and fitting way. i try to avoid being “spammy” or “commercially.” of course, there are so many travel brands out there who have money to spend on marketing, so it’s in my best interest to get a hold of them (i pitch myself a lot). 4. snapchat collaborations this one might come as a shocker to many of you, but i actually make a full-time living just from snapchat. how on earth is this possible? i got a head start of growing my snapchat channel, when i realized the potential of the app while on a 2 month trip around india in early 2015. i wrote this article for how to market yourself on snapchat (it’s way outdated now but still relevant), and it has opened the door for many opportunities in the snapchat space. specifically, big brands pay me to do snapchat takeovers for their account from around the world. companies are interested in working with me beacuse i am both a content creator, and i have a large following that they can leverage to grow their audience as well. in the past, i’ve done snapchat collaborations with tripit, lonely planet, bleacher report, germany tourism and yahoo travel — but these opportunities are starting to die down as instagram is taking over as the king of social media. (*hint* focus on growing your instagram account.) 5. teaching english teaching english is the best way to find a job overseas and start traveling full-time. i taught in south korea for 18 months after college and i loved every second of it. i couldn’t possibly recommend it more to anyone reading this. it changed my life in more ways than i can explain. teaching english is really the safest way to take that first big leap abroad, beacuse it’s essentially risk free once you’ve locked in your job. just think about it, you are literally getting paid to teach people your native language, which is so easy that it barely requires you to think. i’ve already written numerous blog posts about this topic like: the ultimate guide to teaching english in korea and how i traveled to 17 countries and saved $3k, so please refer to those post for more information. to be applicable to teach english abroad, you must meet these basic requirements: – you must be a native english speaker – you must hold a passport from an english speaking nation – you must have a bachelors degree from a university – you must obtain your tefl certificate (teach english as a foreign language) you are not required to speak the local language of whichever country you go to, and you are not required to have any previous teaching experience. i studied economics and entrepreneurship in college. my starting salary teaching english in korea was about $2,000 usd per month. while that doesn’t sound like a lot of money, trust me, it goes a long way. especially considering the amazing benefits like: free rent, reimbursed airfare, no taxes to pay on paychecks, no expenses except phone bills, free lunches, health insurance, 4-week paid vacation, etc. and after my teaching contract ended, i was given about $6k in bonuses which i put directly towards my travel funds. i used that money for about 6 months after teaching, on big trips to india, the philippines and europe. if you have any questions about teaching english, don’t hesitate to contact me! so, how much money do i really make? it varies month-by-month. some months i’ve made $8k, others about $1k. the more work i put into it, the more i get paid. the travel benefits are just as precious. it’s not just the money that i make that enables me to travel — it’s also the freebies and travel benefits, which allow me to travel longer. i’m talking about all those free flights, hotels, transportation, tours, etc. i get this stuff for free, because i work with the companies and tourism boards to promote them on my blog and on my social media channels. but these companies don’t always find me — i find them. i just spent 50+ hours over the last 2 weeks pitching myself to hundreds of travel brands, companies, tourism boards, hotel chains, etc, to get deals for 2017. i am confident that as long as my following continues to grow, the amount of money i make will increase because i can start charging higher prices when more people are consuming my content. so you want to quit your job and life a life of travel. how can you do it? the most difficult part is to start. it’s so easy to really want to do something, and then find every possible excuse not to make it happen. i’ve seen it so many times. my biggest piece of advice for a starter to take the leap abroad is to find a job teaching english and start a travel blog from day 1. if you dedicate yourself, then i promise you, within a year or less, you can already start making a decent living form your website and freelance work. i am living proof that this is possible. it’s not a maybe, it’s a 100% yes this can happen. but if you are not qualified to teach english, then don’t panic, because there are may other jobs that you can find to make that first big leap abroad. here are some other jobs where you can make money and travel the world. – work on a cruise ship – work at a hostel – work at a restaurant or be a bartender – be a tour guide or instructor for your passion (rock climbing, scuba diving, etc.) – be a freelancer for things you’re good at (check out upwork, elance and fiverr to find work) – maybe your current company has branch overseas that you can move to? no matter which job you take abroad, you should still start a blog and get your voice recognized to the world. i can’t even tell you how many new doors i’ve opened from starting this blog, and it’s only getting started. the opportunities are out there. it’s just up to you to make it happen. i truly hope that this post inspired you and now you understand how i can afford to travel. it’s not luck, but rather a lot of hard work, patience and smart decision making. and from there onwards, the possibilities are endless. about latest posts drew binsky a graduate from the university of wisconsin-madison, drew binsky has visited 190+ countries since 2012.he first caught the travel bug while studying abroad in prague, then taught english in korea, and now he's on a mission to visit every country on earth.follow his journey on youtube & instagram @drewbinsky 🙂 latest posts by drew binsky (see all) my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visited - january 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!! - july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18) - may 22, 2018 posted in budgeting, travel post navigation 48 hours in hamburg, leipzig & berlin 7 travel gifts to get your friends for the holidays 83 thoughts on “how i afford to travel full-time” michelle waltman says: march 9, 2020 at 6:40 am pay me back for your lies!! i bought your worthless certificate, and now nobody will take it! why did you lie? i trusted you, now i am stuck with a piece of paper nobody will take!!!! i unsubscribed from your lying youtube videos!! reply terence says: march 10, 2020 at 12:30 pm hey, my friend got ripped off too, tried to complain on his youtube channel and now drew blocks all the comments. he just hurt himself, he can never escape from the lies he used to get his travel money, it will bite him in the end since so many have been hurt by him. oh well, i feel sorry for him, greed and lies made drew goldberg get subscribers, but i promise, the world will oneday know the truth! terence t reply janice says: march 14, 2020 at 12:49 pm good luck! drew goldberg is a slick one! he got tons of money illegally. he hurt those who trusted him just to make a fast buck. oh well, karma will get even with him. he is one ugly dude, outside and inside! reply wayne gilreath says: march 5, 2020 at 4:56 am have you been to diego garcia?!? it’s an amazing island! reply john j says: march 5, 2020 at 5:45 am drew goldberg is a thief. period. maybe you can lick his boots, but i call him out as a lying thief. he affords to travel by conning people. he is conning his gf right now. he uses people and thinks he is cool, but in reality look at his ugly face. the guy had no girls growing up, so he is super insecure, and wants to be a ‘cool’ traveler. only problem is he is a dolt. drew goldberg, biggest scammer in the travel world reply tanyamiller says: march 6, 2020 at 7:48 am i bought the certificate drew said i needed. my first interview the school vice principal told me that i had the wrong thing. he said i needed a celta certificate. drew took my money. pay me back drew! why did you lie??? reply herrick shafer says: march 19, 2020 at 10:56 am just remember, this loser is just some insecure nobody who conned people to get money to travel. he is pathetic..he is showing how stupid he is by doing stupid videos that show his idiotic mind. poor guy was the kid at the table alone with no girl friend, so he had to get one from the philippines where old men go to marry the women because they will take anyone with some cash. reply todd swift says: march 2, 2020 at 7:10 am it is time that this con man came clean! he tricked so many people into buying a worthless online certificate. now he used the cash to travel the world, and he acts like he is some kind of moral person. truth is he is just an insecure narcissist. look how ugly he is. he was nothing in life, and just partied. then he found he could con people into buying his bs and now he is cashing in. he is using the poor girl he is with. well, anyone in the world can get a philippine gf, this guy is such a loser he actualy thinks he is special, when in reality he is just a tricky ugly uneducated conman with a super low self esteem! reply sean tate says: march 4, 2020 at 8:44 am exactly! drew goldberg…..stole, conned, now acts like he knows the world with the gal he is using for long time….. then he will dump her. but face it, anyone can get a gal from the philippines, ask all the sailors in the world. reply garang aguek athuai says: january 31, 2020 at 10:44 pm hi drew binsky, i hope you’re well ” am your fan and i really love your job as travel blogger. your fan from tallest people south sudan 🇸🇸 reply beth says: march 1, 2020 at 6:45 am drew is just a liar and theif! he told people to buy a stupid certificate and it is worthless, but he got 35 dollars from each person he conned! plus he is super ugly, he is using his ‘girl friend’ cause he cannot get a hot chick! reply mike says: march 2, 2020 at 6:56 am you are spot on. he uses people, then uses the cash he gets to travel the world. he looks like uncle fester from the adam’s family. oh well, only fools trust him, including his ‘girl friend’ hahahahahahaha he is the most uneducated fool on youtube. reply carlito c daguman says: january 4, 2020 at 8:28 pm what is your favorite country in the world and why? reply thomas says: march 1, 2020 at 6:46 am his favorite country is philippines because anyone can get a gf there. reply avp kashetty says: october 19, 2019 at 6:44 am that’s cool binsky … you had really inspired me to travel the globe! 🙄 …. can an indian get job in abroad as a english teacher? by the way congratulations for ur 1 million hit ㊗️ reply matt says: march 2, 2020 at 7:00 am only problem is drew is a fake traveler. anyone can travel if they trick people into giving them money. i have zero respect for this ahole! reply eula says: july 15, 2019 at 1:02 am drew’s passion for travel and exploring cultures is my inspiration. definitely want to travel more like you! reply brian says: march 6, 2020 at 7:49 am steal money from people….like he did. reply muhammad haseeb says: july 9, 2019 at 8:35 am amazing blog , thanks for sharing this from : pakistan reply muhammid s. says: march 11, 2020 at 7:50 am the blog of a conman is worthless!!! can you not see how many people he hurt??? reply tracey jones says: may 24, 2019 at 10:02 am hi, drew i am a big fan of you and i always watch your traveling videos. i am a travel blogger. drew, i am interested to write an article about you, your personality, and your travel history. would love to feature you on our little blog. would you mine if i go for it? please, let me know soon:) reply tehranjaresaghil says: may 24, 2019 at 12:10 am renting is one of the hardest things i’ve ever done! thanks for this useful post reply tony says: april 28, 2019 at 6:35 am you got it right when you said it’s all about priority. if you love travel, prioritise it over other expenditures and soon enough you’ll have travel money saved up and good to go. reply agahimax says: february 8, 2019 at 12:06 am with this new information about hitchhiking there, we are now considering of going there too. thanks. reply pingback: blog review – com 125: social media buzzhawker says: december 18, 2018 at 12:43 pm thanks for sharing this blog.i love travelling and also wants to earn money by this. whereas i have website http://www.buzzhawker.com which also have travel category.your blog will help me in earning money through travelling the world. reply cebu island hopping says: november 30, 2018 at 6:49 am great post, drew! i have learned so much just by reading your post. it gave me a lot of insights and most of them are really a good one. glad i have found your blog despite kinda late on finding your awesome blog, but still i had a few of lessons that i learned from this post of yours alone. great blog by the way! regards, zane reply kim says: november 28, 2018 at 1:55 pm hi drew, just found your blog and am finding it extremely interesting. i was just wondering, if you know of any countries that allow you to teach english without a 4 year degree? i only have my associates degree, but would love to do something like this.i love to travel, but haven’t really been to many places outside of the us. any info or advice would be greatly appreciated. thanks! reply fanya says: november 14, 2018 at 8:58 am awesome post, drew! my two favorite blog topics are food and travel! i wish to have the chance to travel the world and discover the food traditions! reply sai kalwar says: november 10, 2018 at 9:07 am hello drew, i am your big fan… i want to travel.. but i am confused about passport making. do i need to make different passport for different countries to travel plz tell me or email me [email protected] reply pingback: 7 easy ways to make solo travel affordable - nerdwallet take online class says: october 16, 2018 at 5:27 pm hi drew binsky , thank you so much for putting this guide togetherness. it’s proven to be invaluable to help me get started on my own blog, the hardest part was getting started. the content pours itself out. i know i’ll look back on my first few posts eventually and say, why did i post that. i have two questions for you; my first question is how do you figure out who to contact about adding a link to your blog to drive traffic? how established should you be post wise? i’m having trouble getting to the next step. second, would you recommend contacting a more experienced travel blogger to read your posts to get feedback? i know it’s important to join blogging superstar, but i’m a little tight on funds right now. hope this changes in the future. thank you again reply murad khan says: august 6, 2018 at 9:05 am this is one of the most honest blog i ever find i already subscribe you on youtube i already have plan to do traveling ! reply amin says: july 29, 2018 at 1:09 pm it was a very good post your photo is also great with the flags of the countries. reply chinnaiah ramamoorthi says: july 2, 2018 at 9:17 am thanks drew, really an inspirational post reply anuj varma says: may 6, 2018 at 6:12 am amazing drew binsky. if you have any assignments here in india,please connect or be my guest at the city is of golden temple. (+917888794690, [email protected]) have great time living your dreams and be the best !!! reply b says: january 7, 2018 at 12:28 am amazing! really impressed with what you did and your ideas of jobs to get money while travelling. b http://americansinhanoi.blogspot.com/ reply l t says: october 12, 2017 at 9:56 pm hello drew: i just found your blog. i am a fond du lac wi resident so we have an entire state in common! glad to see you are living out so many dreams. its hard to be a bigot when you are a well traveled person. carry on!!! reply joy says: october 7, 2017 at 9:32 pm i’m eu and watched your video about differences between eu and us. pretty funny remark about ketchup; fyi, you can find it in non-glass samples too. 🙂 thank you for your posts reply sun xui vchai says: june 19, 2017 at 4:31 pm if you will travel to baku i will suggest you very good tranfer service from airport in baku, http://www.az-tur.com because it can be problematic and some time i had problems with other service providers, like sudden price increase!!!! but this guys was always in time and very frendly. reply drew binsky says: june 21, 2017 at 5:51 am thanks! reply julianna huscha says: may 17, 2017 at 1:33 pm hey drew have you ever been to ukraine? it’s where i’m from. reply drew binsky says: may 25, 2017 at 4:36 pm yes! i spent a week in kiev and loved it! reply tammy says: may 14, 2017 at 10:13 am hi drew… i’ve been following you on ig for a few months. i love reading your adventures. i’m an emptynester…i just got a job in germany as an education trainer for the next 3-years. i want to start blogging about my travel adventures. what advice do you have on getting followers? reply drew binsky says: may 25, 2017 at 4:37 pm awesome! i am actually in the process of writing a guide for how to get started as a travel blogger.. keep your eyes peeled! reply faisal james says: july 16, 2018 at 6:26 pm please contact with me i m christians from pakistan and many peoples have been visited me from western country’s and i want u must vsit me to i will send u the invitation letter and u will have good trip reply amaan says: may 6, 2017 at 7:21 am hey drew! i’m fascinated by you.tell me more about making money out of blogging. and do you think your economics, entrepeneurship studies have been crucial for you to establish yourself at this amazing platform? reply drew binsky says: may 25, 2017 at 4:37 pm hi amaan – please send me an email and i can help you more. [email protected] reply ben says: march 24, 2017 at 6:06 am what is your long term plan? is this a rest of your life kind of thing? reply drew binsky says: march 27, 2017 at 11:16 am yes it is! reply natasha says: february 9, 2017 at 7:06 am make me your assistant 😌 reply kathryn ohalloran says: january 4, 2017 at 8:36 am some good points but “let your friends or parents take care of your dog”? only if you are a terrible human being. don’t get a pet if you can’t commit to looking after it. reply drew binsky says: january 9, 2017 at 12:18 am yes agree, don’t get a pet if you can’t commit looking after it – but it shouldn’t stop you from teaching english abroad reply georgina goodman says: december 22, 2016 at 11:05 am hey drew! you just followed me on twitter so i came to check out your blog! its great, loved this post – i’ll be checking back for new content! http://www.georginadoes.co.uk/ reply drew binsky says: december 28, 2016 at 3:49 am thanks georgina! reply laura says: december 22, 2016 at 7:08 am drew! love your authenticity, your integrity shines. thanks for sharing your travel experiences. where can i find the best information about growing my instagram account and how to effectively promote a blog for world wide recognition? also, when do you sleep? ? reply drew binsky says: december 28, 2016 at 3:49 am thank you for the comment, laura! please email me and i can help you further reply lw says: december 20, 2016 at 4:02 pm do you only take trips if you get paid by them? curious as i am in travel pr and find it super fascinating what bloggers are choosing to do nowadays. as you said, many travel brands aren’t keen on giving you a free trip and paying since it’s no longer looked at as pr. reply drew binsky says: december 28, 2016 at 3:49 am hello — no, most of my trips are self funded. only some are if they are paid. thanks for the comment! reply neha says: december 18, 2016 at 8:55 am you are a true inspiration for me ! i have been trying to follow you. i will get graduated in april 2017 then i am ready. thank you so much such a inspirational person you are. reply drew binsky says: december 28, 2016 at 3:51 am thank you neha! best of luck to you 🙂 reply phyllis says: december 13, 2016 at 4:24 am you are very inspiring! i follow you on ig and really enjoy your posts. i just turned 60 and am strongly considering becoming a travel blogger as my 3rd career in about 5 years. i think i may have something to contribute to older folks. we will see! i was wondering if snapchat is still viable, you seem to think ig is the way to go.. reply drew binsky says: december 13, 2016 at 11:47 pm thank you so much, phyllis! you should definitely be a blogger — i would focus on instagram for now, as it’s becoming more and more relevant. please email me if you have any specific questions, and best of luck! reply pingback: 7 overlooked tropical islands to visit in 2017 | beautiful travel destinations pingback: 7 overlooked tropical islands to visit in 2017 | ubw-news aj says: december 2, 2016 at 8:41 am great post drew! nice to get an insight into how you do what you do. helps us novice bloggers out. cheers! reply drew binsky says: december 2, 2016 at 7:07 pm thanks a lot for your comment! best of luck to you! reply esther nneka says: december 2, 2016 at 6:32 am you know, i’ve been trying to get an answer from you on how a nigerian can get a job teaching english in korea. you’re the only one i’ve heard say that nigerians teach in korea. how please? how? reply drew binsky says: december 2, 2016 at 7:08 pm hey esther, i know it’s possible because i had a nigerian friend who taught english in korea. you will have to contact individual recruiters and ask them. don’t stress beacuse you do it! reply girish says: december 2, 2016 at 3:45 am nice read. will you mail me the details which you send to travel companies to get sponsoredship. email – [email protected] reply drew binsky says: december 2, 2016 at 7:08 pm hi girish, i am sorry but that is confidential information. thanks for your comment reply alan says: december 2, 2016 at 1:15 am thanks drew, finally someone truly shares how this world works. i have been doing research as of how to start blogging and stuff but no one talks about how your blog actually makes money like affiliates, etc. thank you for sharing this info, it was really helpful. one question, how did you learn all of these different techniques? for example, how to contact companies, etc. i have heard that there are some blogging courses that teach you how to do all of that, but i was just wondering if you have tried any type of courses to learn these techniques. thanks! reply drew binsky says: december 2, 2016 at 7:09 pm thanks, alan! i taught myself everything, from the ground up. i had no idea what blogging was 5 years ago. there are many blogging courses that you can find online, but i haven’t tried them. i know nomadic matt has one amongst others. best of luck to you! reply ricardo says: december 2, 2016 at 12:06 am man, i wish i was a native english speaker… you guys have it easy! we have nowhere near the same chances of starting this lifestyle by teaching our native language abroad! nevertheless, i know a couple of well-educated british dudes who complain a lot but never tried to teach english abroad, so congrats drew for having taken the plunge! you sir are an example! reply drew binsky says: december 2, 2016 at 7:09 pm yes ricardo we do have it easy, and i am thankful for that! but if you are fluent in english, then you can probably find a job as a private tutor somewhere nice 🙂 reply latravelgirl- layla says: december 1, 2016 at 10:38 pm awesome post drew!!! hard work defo pays off 🙂 reply drew binsky says: december 2, 2016 at 7:10 pm thanks layla!! reply miss shorts&shades says: december 1, 2016 at 10:07 pm i’ve been trying to find an article or blog like this for months so thank you so much for finally explaining it all! i have you on snapchat and love the idea of being a travel blogger. you really have inspired me to start a blog and finally start documenting everything haha hope i meet you someday when our paths cross half way accross the world! keep up the good work 🙂 p.s. if your ever in ireland be sure to pop in for a cup of tea haha reply drew binsky says: december 2, 2016 at 7:11 pm thank you for your kind comment! i’m so happy that you felt inspired to start a blog 🙂 let me know if you have any questions moving forward and i’ll be happy to help! drew reply laura says: december 1, 2016 at 8:54 pm this is awesome drew. i’ve been blogging for four years. i haven’t made anything from it yet. i know i’ll figure it out. but i do enjoy writing about my travels and inspiring people. but thanks for some tips! reply drew binsky says: december 2, 2016 at 7:11 pm thank you, laura! email me if you want some more tips 🙂 you can do it! reply daniel says: december 1, 2016 at 8:49 pm amazing. youve inspired me… and gave me new cool ideas. thank you for this. enjoy reply drew binsky says: december 2, 2016 at 7:11 pm many thanks, daniel! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment * name * email * website recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.