home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » arts and craft » how to create a faux zinc texture (with spray paint) how to create a faux zinc texture (with spray paint) october 14, 2019 brittany bailey 3 comments 134shares facebook twitter pinterest want to give something the look of zinc metal without spending money on zinc metal? you can create the look with spray paint and this technique. how to create a faux zinc texture (with spray paint) a while ago i was thrifting with a few friends and stumbled across an ugly cabinet at our local goodwill. the metal chest had extra wide and deep storage, but the worst colors imaginable! the hot pink and mint green were disguising the true potential of the chest. like a color-blind dog, i was able to see beyond its garish appearance. in my mind, i pictured a vintage metal cabinet with a faux zinc side and chalkboard drawer fronts. i scooped it up and brought it home. then the poor chest sat in our garage for months and months until i had a chance to work a little spray paint magic and turned it into….this thing of beauty: yes, that is the same chest of drawers! you could do the same transformation. let’s learn how to create a faux zinc texture! materials: (i’ve included affiliate links for your convenience. i earn a small percentage from a purchase using these links. there is no additional cost to you. you can read more about affiliate links here.) gray automotive primer rust-oleum metallic hammered metal spray paint (silver) craft paper painter’s tape rubber gloves white chalk instructions: clean off your furniture piece really well. remove any dirt or debris (i actually had to use a little goo gone to get rid of some sticky residue. but, lemon essential oil will also work for this task.) spray paint your object with automotive primer. (i prefer the automotive primer because it sticks to metal and can withstand a lot of abuse.) let the primer dry. adding a faux zinc texture: this is the most exciting part of the tutorial. i created this technique by trial and error and i’m excited by how well this method works for creating a faux zinc texture. getting a faux zinc texture is really easy. just have some gloves on and use a crumpled up piece of craft paper. (a loose crumple works best.) spray paint your object with a thick coat of the hammered silver spray paint, (but not so thick that it runs). let the paint get tacky by waiting a few seconds. then use the crumpled piece of craft paper to blot into the wet paint. work in small 1 foot sections and pounce the paper a few times. (too much pouncing and you’ll lose the large textured pattern.) let the paint dry thoroughly. then enjoy your beautiful faux zinc paint job! chalkboard painted metal drawers: for my cabinet, i chose to paint the drawer fronts with chalkboard paint for a nice contrast. remove the drawers from the chest. tape over the drawer glides and slides. mask off the drawer sides and insides by covering the drawers with tape and craft paper, leaving only the drawer fronts exposed. spray paint the drawers with chalkboard paint. (use three fine coats of paint instead of one or two heavy coats.) set them aside to dry. insert the chalkboard drawers back into the cabinet frame. add chalkboard art to your drawer fronts. the thrifted cabinet has a wonderful texture now and the black and zinc colors work with any color scheme. the chalkboard drawer fronts allow the flexibility for me to store and label other items inside. i’m so thrilled with the results! i hope you try to transform your own object, now that you know how to create a faux zinc texture. if you use this tutorial, i’d love to hear about it. better yet, will you send me a picture? share this with a friend! pin this image: 134shares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: aged, arts and craft, before and after, decor, diy, furniture, goodwill, painting, painting & antiquing techniques, spray paint, spray paint metal, thrifting, upcycling comments ruthn says october 15, 2019 at 5:54 am love this look! would it work on plastic? i have three terracotta coloured planters i’d like to match up to a real zinc planter. what do you think? reply brittany bailey says october 17, 2019 at 12:03 pm absolutely! as long as you prime the plastic with a primer made for plastic. go for it! reply rachel lynn says october 19, 2019 at 2:14 pm i’m gonna give this a go and see if i can get such great results. 🙂 reply leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok