start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising money smartcut advertising how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast read full profile share pin it tweet share email it’s been months since you’ve tried improving your credit score but had little success. and since you’re planning to make large purchases soon, you start feeling hopeless. the problem is you don’t know where to start. with too many resources available, you become paralyzed with fear. but you know you can’t sit still forever. so what’s your next step? to learn from others who’ve already experienced success. take my case, for example, my current credit score is 750+, but this wasn’t always the case. at one point i had no credit and lost over 100 points. through trial and error, plus learning from others i’ve learned which tactics work. you don’t need complicated strategies, you only need a few that work. the tactics provided in this list are the same ones i’ve used to increase my credit score. while your credit score won’t improve overnight, it’ll improve quicker than most. here are 10 tactics you can use to finally improve your credit score: 1. revise for any errors before you attempt to improve your credit score, check where you stand. pull a free credit credit report and ensure that all your information is accurate. for example, check for misspellings, wrong addresses and accounts not belonging to you. if there’s any bad information, contact the credit reporting company. to avoid any prolonged issues, aim to check your credit at least once per year. you’re entitled by federal law to 1 free credit report from all 3 credit reporting agencies. download credit karma, or credit sesame to track your credit score. this will help you stay motivated as you’re changing bad habits to improve your credit score. advertising 2. stop depending on credit a major reason for having bad credit is due to carrying several credit balances. instead, focus on paying down all your credit cards and only use one. save money by consolidating all your credit card balances into a 0% interest credit card. once you’ve consolidated all or most of your credit card debt, make more than the minimum payment. why? because it can take years for you to pay off those balances making the smallest payment. it can feel overwhelming keeping track of many credit cards and other expenses. fortunately, a simple solution is to use apps like mint to better track your cashflow. 3. say no to new credit cards ironically, the better your credit score is, the more credit offers you’ll receive. but this doesn’t mean that you should open dozens of new credit cards. limit yourself to only have 1 to 4 credit cards. if you find that you already have more than 4, focus on eliminating ones you don’t use or have an annual fee. many companies and stores will try to convince you to open new credit cards with a one-time cash bonus. don’t fall for it. 4. leave your bills on autopilot because you’re human, you’re bound to be late on payments at some point. a great way to avoid being late is by setting up automatic payments for your bills. nowadays, most large banks have a “bill pay” feature that allows you to set up recurring payments. review your credit billing history and write down bill due dates on a separate sheet of paper. be sure to have a good understanding of your cash flow to know how much money you’ll have left over each month. use the remaining amount to make extra credit card payments. stay motivated by setting a deadline for when you’d like to be credit card debt free. then break down your entire credit card balance by month. for example, if you’d like to be debt free in 16 months with a $5,000 credit card balance, make a $313 payment each month ($5,000/16). make sure to pick a date that’s attainable and one with payments you’ll be able to afford. it’s better to pay a lesser amount if you’ll be consistent. advertising 5. make your bills adapt to you everyone’s pay cycle is different, so adjust your bill’s due date to a date convenient for you. if your bill is due on the 1st of the month but you get paid on the 7th, change accordingly. sometimes changing your due date is too much of hassle or not possible. in this case, consider using your credit card to make your payments.[1] but, as soon as these payments post to your credit card, be sure to pay them off. 6. be wary of excessive credit keep your credit utilization below 30%. using more credit gives the impression to companies that you’re struggling financially. vintagesscore recommends using no more than 30% of your credit utilization. what’s your credit utilization? divide your total outstanding debt by your total credit. for example, if you had $3,000 in outstanding debt with a $10,000 credit limit, your credit utilization is 30%. now review all your credit cards and calculate your credit utilization. so when do you use your credit cards? only to make purchases you’ll be able to pay off either immediately or within a month. stop depending on your credit card to make daily purchases and use your debit card instead. you’ll be less likely to make impulsive purchases and buy only what you can afford. the best part is you’ll start breaking the bad habits that got you a bad credit score in the first place. 7. don’t abuse credit inquiries be wary of hard credit inquiries. these types of inquiries can bring down your credit score a few points. a few points may not sound like much, but they add up. hard credit inquiries are necessary for the different stages in your life but you’ll need to be strategic for when to use them. here are some examples of hard inquiries: advertising auto loan application mortgage application student loan application personal loan application apartment application plan ahead for big purchases. this way you’ll avoid running many hard inquiries against your credit all at once. the good news is that big purchases aren’t made often, so you’ll have time to prepare. set a timeline for when you’d like to make large purchases to know if your credit score is in good standing. 8. become an authorized user start building credit by becoming an authorized user in someone else’s account. as an authorized user, you’ll be able to make purchases with your own credit card. but the owner will still be responsible to make payments on time. it’ll be challenging to find someone who’d be willing to add you as an authorized user to their account. so start by asking a close relative or friend. once added, it’s a great way to build creditworthiness over time, so be persistent. 9. praise your credit history don’t close good standing credit cards. good standing credit cards show lenders you’ve been able to make payments on time for an extended period. instead, if you decide to no longer use a credit card, leave it home somewhere out of sight. do close credit cards that are charging you annual fees or have a short history. be sure to do this during a period you won’t be making large purchases. 10. conquer goals with patience the truth is building your credit score won’t be easy, but it’s well worth the effort. to stay motivated, write down your main reason for wanting to improve your credit score. for example, if you want to buy a house, set a concrete date to work towards to. then start researching what credit score you’ll need to buy your home. from here, break down your goal into daily actionable steps. advertising a sample month can look like this: week 1: leave credit card at home week 2: call banks to inquire about ideal credit score to have week 3: create a pay off date for your credit card with the lowest balance week 4: save $10 to make a principal payment towards your credit card consistency is key. it’s best to start with small goals and make consistent progress. once you start seeing success aim for bigger goals. “most people overestimate what they can do in a day, and underestimate what they can do in a month.” – matthew kelly make your dream purchases effortlessly imagine waking up to a buzzing noise. it’s your smartphone notifying you that your credit score is now 700. you smile, grab your coffee, and start your morning feeling invincible. it wasn’t easy but with hard work and discipline, you were able to improve your credit score. best of all, your finances are now better than ever. you have a budget and stick to it. amazing isn’t it? you now have 10 proven strategies to boost your credit score. try each tactic but remember to have patience. increasing your credit score won’t happen overnight. but you’ll form life-changing habits along the way. what are you waiting for? go get em’ tiger. featured photo credit: pixabay via pixabay.com reference [1] ^ the balance: using a credit card to pay monthly bills share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated advertising advertising more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life how to stay consistent and realize your dreams advertising advertising money smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set financial goals and actually meet them ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement read full profile share pin it tweet share email finances can push anyone to the point of extreme anxiety and worry. easier said than done, planning finances is not an egg meant for everyone’s basket. and that’s why most of us are often living pay check to pay check. but did anyone tell you that it is actually not a tough task to meet your financial goals? in this article, we will explore ways on how to set financial goals and then actually meet them with ease. table of contents 5 steps to set financial goals 11 ways to achieve your financial goals ensuring healthy savings making smart investments the bottom line more tips about personal finance management 5 steps to set financial goals though setting financial goals might seem to be a daunting task but if one has the will and clarity of thought, it is rather easy. try using these steps: 1. be clear about the objectives any goal (let alone financial) without a clear objective is nothing more than a pipe dream. and this couldn’t be more true for financial matters. it is often said that savings is nothing but deferred consumption. therefore if you are saving today, then you should be crystal clear about what it is for. it could be anything like kid’s education, retirement, marriage, that dream vacation, fancy car etc. once the objective is clear, put a monetary value to that objective and the time frame. the important point at this step of goal setting is to list all the objectives, however small they may be, that you foresee in the future and put a value to it. 2. keep them realistic it’s good to be an optimistic person but being a pollyanna is not desirable. similarly, while it might be a good thing to keep your financial goals a bit aggressive, going out of the line will definitely hurt your chances of achieving them. it’s important that you keep your goals realistic in nature for it will help you stay the course and keep you motivated throughout the journey. 3. account for inflation ronald reagan once said – “inflation is as violent as a mugger, as frightening as an armed robber and as deadly as a hitman”. and this quote sums up the best what inflation could do your financial goals. therefore account for inflation whenever you are putting a monetary value to a financial objective that is far away in the future. for example, if one of your financial goal is your son’s college education, which is 15 years hence, then inflation would increase the monetary burden by more than 50% if inflation is mere 3%. so always account for inflation. 4. short term vs long term just like every calorie is not the same, the approach towards achieving every financial goal will not be the same. it is important to bifurcate goals in short term and long term. as a rule of thumb, any financial goal, which is due in next 3 years should be termed as short term goal. any longer duration goals are to be classified as long term goals. this bifurcation of goals into short term vs long term will help in choosing the right investment instrument to achieve them. more on this later when we talk about how to achieve financial goals. advertising 5. to each to his own the journey of setting financial goals is an individualistic affair i.e. your goals are your own goals and are determined by your want to achieve them. a lot of times we get on the bandwagon of goal setting only to realize later on that it was not meant for us. it is important that your goals are actually your goals and not inspired by someone else. take a hard look at this step at all the goals you’ve set for after this step, you will be on the way to achieve them. by now, you would be ready with your financial goals, now it’s time to go all out and achieve them. 11 ways to achieve your financial goals whenever we talk about chasing any financial goal, it is usually a 2 step process – ensuring healthy savings making smart investments you will need to save enough; and invest those savings wisely so that they grow over a period of time to help you achieve goals. so let’s get down to ensuring healthy savings. ensuring healthy savings self realization is the best form of realisation and unless you decide what your current financial position is, you aren’t heading anywhere. this is the focal point from where you start your journey of achieving financial goals. 1. track expenses the first and the foremost thing to be done is to track your monthly expenses. use any of the expense tracking mobile apps to record your expenses. once you start doing it diligently, you would be surprised to see how small expenses add up to a sizeable amount. also categorize those expenses into different bucket so that you know which bucket is eating the most of your pay check. this record keeping will pave the way for cutting down on un-wanted expenses and pump up your savings rate. 2. pay yourself first generally, savings come after all the expenses have been taken care of. this is a classical mistake which almost everyone of us do. we pay ourselves last! ideally, this should be planned upside down. we should be paying ourselves first and then to the world i.e. we should be taking out the planned saving amount first and then manage all the expenses from the rest. the best way to actually implement is to put the savings on automatic mode i.e. money flowing automatically into different financial instruments (for example – mutual funds, retirement corpus etc) every month. taking the automatic route will make us lose control of our money and hence will compel us to manage in what’s left with us thereby increasing the savings rate. 3. make a plan and vow to stick with it budgeting is the best to get around the uncertainty that financial plans always pose. decide in advance how spending has to be made. advertising nowadays, several money management apps and wallets can help you do this automatically. it’s easy and who knows, you may just end up doing what people fail to do. at first, you may not be able to stick to your plans completely but don’t let that become a reason why you stop budgeting entirely. make use of technology solutions you like. explore options and alternatives that let you make use of the available wallet options and choose the one that suits you the most. in time, you will get accustomed to making use of these solutions. you will find that they make it simpler for you to follow your plan, which would have been difficult otherwise. 4. rise again even if you fall let’s be realistic. it’s not like the world will come to an end if you made one mistake. this isn’t called leniency but discipline. if you fail to meet your budget for a month, don’t give up the entire effort just like that. instead, start again. remember that flexible plans are the most realistic plans. so go forward and try to follow your financial goals as planned but if for some reason, the plan gets out of hand for you, do not give up on it just yet. this has a lot to do with your psychology rather than any material commitment. all you have to do is to stay on the road and vow to stay on it, no matter how much you fall down. 5. make savings a habit and not a goal in the book nudge, authors richard thaler and cass sunstein advocate that in order to achieve any goal, it should be broken down into habits since habits are more intuitive for people to adapt to. make savings a habit rather than a goal. while it might seem to be counter intuitive to many but there are some deft ways of doing it. for example: always eat out (if at all) during weekdays rather than weekends. usually weekends are expensive. make it a habit and you would in turn be saving a great deal. if you are travelling buff, try to travel during off season. your outlay will be much less. if you go out for shopping, always look out for coupons and see where can you get the best deal. so the key point is to imbibe the action that results in savings rather than on the savings itself, which is the outcome. focusing on the outcome will bring out the feeling of sacrifice which will be harder to sustain over a period of time. advertising 6. talk about it sticking to the saving schedule (to achieve financial goals) is not an easy journey. there will be many distractions from those who are not aligned with your mission. and it would be rather easy to lose the grip over your discipline. therefore in order to stay the course, it is advisable that you keep yourself surrounded with people who are also on the same bandwagon. daily discussions with them will keep you motivated to move forward. 7. maintain a journal for some people, writing helps a great deal in making sure that they achieve what they plan. so if you are one of them, maintain a proper journal, where you write down your goals and also jot down the extent to which you managed to meet them. this will help you in reviewing how far you have come and which goals you have met. use this journal to write down all essential points such as your short term, mid term and long term goals, your current sources of income, your regular expenses which you are aware of and any committed expenses which are of recurring nature. when you have a written commitment on paper, you are going to feel more energised to follow the plan and stick to it. moreover, it is going to be a lot more easier for you to follow you and track your progress. at this point, you should be ready with your financial goals and would be doing brilliantly with savings; now it’s time to talk about the big daddy – investments. making smart investments savings by themselves don’t take anyone too far. however savings when invested wisely can do wonders and we are at that stage where we will talk about making smart investments. 8. consult a financial advisor investments doesn’t come naturally to most of us therefore rather than dabbling with it ourselves, it is wise to consult a financial advisor. talk to him/her about your financial goals and savings and then seek advice for the best investment instruments to achieve your goals. 9. choose your investment instrument wisely though your financial advisor will suggest the best investment instruments, it doesn’t hurt to know a bit about them. just like “no one is born a criminal”, no investment instrument is bad or good. it is the application of that instrument that makes all the difference. do you remember we talked about bifurcating financial goals in short term and long term? it is here where that classification will help. advertising so as a general rule, for all your short term financial goals, choose an investment instrument that has debt nature for example fixed deposits, debt mutual funds etc. the reason for going for debt instruments is that chances of capital loss is less as compared to equity instruments. 10. compounding is the eighth wonder einstein once remarked about compounding, compound interest is the eighth wonder of the world. he who understands it, earns it… he who doesn’t… pays it. so make friends with this wonder kid. and sooner you become friends with it, quicker you will reach closer to your financial goals. start investing early so that time is on your side to help you bear the fruits of compounding. 11. measure, measure, measure all of us do good when it comes to earning more per month but fail miserably when it comes to measuring the investments; taking stock of how our investments are doing. if there is one single step where everything (so far) can go wrong, it is at this step – measuring the progress. if we don’t measure the progress timely, then we would be shooting in the dark. we wouldn’t know if our saving rate is appropriate or not; whether financial advisor is doing a decent job; whether we are moving closer to our target or not. do measure everything. if you can’t measure it all yourself, ask your financial advisor to do it for you. but do it! the bottom line this completes the list of tips for you to set financial goals and actually achieve them with not so great difficulty. as you can see, all it requires is discipline. but guess that’s the most difficult part! more tips about personal finance management 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind top 10 recommendations on money management apps featured photo credit: rawpixel via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work advertising advertising more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next top 10 recommendations on money management apps how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.