wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » how to start a wordpress blog the right way in 7 easy steps (2020) how to start a wordpress blog the right way in 7 easy steps (2020) last updated on january 16th, 2020 by editorial staff 51k shares share tweet share pin do you want to start a wordpress blog the right way? we know that starting a blog can be a terrifying thought specially when you are not geeky. guess what – you are not alone. having helped over 370,000+ users create a blog, we have decided to create the most comprehensive guide on how to start a wordpress blog without any technical knowledge. the process is easy to follow whether you are 20 years old or 60 years old. however if you need help, our expert team will help you setup your blog for free. → click here to get your free wordpress blog setup! ← what do you need to start a wordpress blog? there are three things you need to create a wordpress blog: a domain name idea (this will be the name of your blog i.e wpbeginner.com) a web hosting account (this is where your website live on the internet) your undivided attention for 30 minutes. yes, you read it right. you can start a blog from scratch in less than 30 minutes, and we will walk you through the whole process, step by step. in this tutorial, we will cover: how to register a domain name for free how to choose the best web hosting how to install and setup wordpress blog how to change your blog design template how to write your first blog post how to customize wordpress blog with plugins how to add a contact form how to setup google analytics tracking how to optimize your website for seo how to make money from your blog resources to learn and master wordpress ready? let’s get started. video tutorial subscribe to wpbeginner if you don’t like the video or need more instructions, then continue reading. step 1. setup the biggest mistake beginners make when building a blog is choosing the wrong blogging platform. thankfully you’re here, so you won’t be making that mistake. for 95% of users, it makes more sense to use wordpress.org also known as self-hosted wordpress. why? because it is free to use, you can install plugins, customize your blog design, and most importantly make money from your blog without any restrictions (see the difference between wordpress.com vs wordpress.org). wordpress is also the number one website platform used by all successful blogs. to put in perspective, 34% of all websites on the internet use wordpress! now you might be wondering why is wordpress free? what’s the catch? there’s no catch. it’s free because you have to do the setup and host it yourself. in other words, you need a domain name and web hosting. a domain name is what people type to get to your website. it’s your website’s address on the internet. think google.com or wpbeginner.com web hosting is where your website files live. it’s your website’s house on the internet. every website needs web hosting. a domain name typically costs around $14.99 / year, and web hosting normally costs $7.99 / month. that’s a lot of money for beginners who are just starting out. thankfully, bluehost, an official wordpress recommended hosting provider, has agreed to offer our users a free domain name and over 60% off on web hosting. → click here to claim this exclusive bluehost offer ← bluehost is one of the oldest web hosting companies on the internet. they are also the largest brand name when it comes to wordpress hosting because they host millions of websites including many of our own. on top of all this, bluehost has been working with wordpress since 2005, and they are committed to giving back. that’s why they have promised us that if you cannot get your blog online within 30 minutes by following this tutorial, then our expert team will complete the process for you without any cost. they will compensate us, so you don’t have to. contact us for free blog setup help. note: at wpbeginner we believe in transparency. if you sign up with bluehost using our referral link, we will earn a small commission at no extra cost to you (in fact, you will save money and get a free domain). we would get this commission for recommending just about any wordpress hosting company, but we only recommend products that we use personally use and believe will add value to our readers. let’s go ahead and purchase your domain + hosting. open up bluehost in a new window and follow along. first thing you need to do is click on the green get started now button to get started. on the next screen, select the plan that you need (basic and plus are the most popular). after that, you will be asked to enter the domain name for your website. lastly, you will need to add your account information and finalize the package info to complete the process. we recommend going with the 36-month plan because that’s the best value. on this screen, you will see optional extras that you can purchase. it’s entirely up to you whether or not you purchase these, but we generally don’t recommend purchasing them right away. you can always add them later on, if you decide that you need them. once completed, you will receive an email with details on how to login to your web hosting control panel (cpanel). this is where you manage everything from support, emails, among other things. but most importantly, this is where you install wordpress. step 2. install wordpress when you signup with the new version of bluehost using our link, they will automatically install wordpress for you. this new version was recently launched to make it easier for non-techy users to create their blog. what this means is you simply need to login to your bluehost account, and then click the login to wordpress button to get started. you can also login to wordpress by simply going to yoursite.com/wp-admin/ directly from your browser. if you are using a different wordpress blog hosting service like siteground, hostgator, wp engine, etc, then you can see our comprehensive guide on how to install wordpress for step by step instructions for those providers. once wordpress is setup, you’re ready to customize your blog’s appearance to make it your own and start blogging. step 3. selecting your wordpress theme the visual appearance of your wordpress blog is controlled by themes. when you first visit your blog, it will look something like this: this is not very appealing to most people. customizing the look and feel of your blog is by far one of the most exciting and rewarding part in the journey of creating your wordpress blog. there are thousands of pre-made wordpress themes that you can install on your site. some of them are free themes, while others are paid. you can change your theme by going to your wordpress dashboard and clicking on appearance » themes. go ahead and click on the add new button. on the next screen, you will able to search from 7,400+ free wordpress themes that are available in the official wordpress.org themes directory. you can sort by popular, latest, featured, as well as other feature filters (i.e industry, layout, etc). you can take your mouse over to a theme, and you will see a preview button. clicking on it will open the theme preview where you can see how the design would look on your website. the preview of your theme may not look exactly as shown in the screenshot, which is normal as you will get to customize and set it up later. what you need to look for is design, colors, typography, and other elements. the best tip to select the perfect wordpress theme is to strive for simplicity in design. it helps you keep things clean and clear while offering a good experience to your users. when you have found the theme that you like, simply bring your mouse on it, and it will show the install button. click on it and wait for the theme to be installed. after that, the install button will be replaced with an activate button. you need to click on it to activate the theme. once you have installed your theme, you can customize it by clicking on the customize link under the appearance menu. if you need help selecting a theme, then please refer to our guide on 9 things you should consider when selecting a perfect wordpress theme. once you have selected your wordpress theme, you are now ready to create your first blog post. step 4. creating your first blog post to write a blog post, click on the posts » add new menu in your wordpress dashboard. you will see an editor area where you can write your first blog post. wordpress uses a block-based editor where each element is a block. this allows you to create beautiful content layouts for your blog posts. to familiarize yourself with the editor, see our wordpress block editor tutorial. once you’re done writing, go ahead and click on the publish button on the top-right corner of the screen to make your blog post publicly available. on the posts screen, you will notice several other sections such as categories and tags. you can use these to organize your blog posts into sections. we have a great writeup on the difference between categories vs tags, which we highly recommend that you read. to utilize all the features on the posts screen, you should read our article on how to add a new post in wordpress (video included). often beginners are confused between posts and pages menu in the wordpress dashboard. that’s why we have also written a complete guide on the difference between posts vs pages in wordpress. step 5. plugins & customizations once you have written your first sample blog post, you probably want to get started with adding other usual elements on your website such as contact forms, galleries, sliders, newsletter subscription form, etc. to add all these additional features, you need to use plugins. wordpress plugins are apps that allow you to add new features to your website (without writing any code). there are over 55,000 wordpress plugins available in the free wordpress plugin directory alone. this means no matter what you want to accomplish, there is a plugin for it. we have a step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. that being said, let’s take a look at how to use plugins to add some essential features to your wordpress blog. how to create a contact form in wordpress every website needs a contact form. it allows your users to email you directly. since wordpress doesn’t come with a built-in contact form, you will need a wordpress form builder plugin to add a contact form on your site. we recommend using the wpforms lite plugin. it is a free version of the popular wpforms plugin, which is #1 in our list of best contact form plugins for wordpress. over 3 million websites use wpforms! you can install the plugin by going to plugins » add new page and typing wpforms in the search box. next, you need to click “install” and then “activate”. upon activation, you need to head over to wpforms » add new page to create your first form. this will open the wpforms builder interface. first, you need to enter a name for your contact form and then click on ‘simple contact form’ template. wpforms will now create a simple contact form for you with all the required fields. you can click on any field to change it, or add a new field from the left column. once you are done editing the form, click on the save button at the top right corner and then exit the form builder. you can now create a new page in wordpress by going to pages » add new and call it ‘contact’. on the edit screen, you need to enter the wpforms block into the editor. after that, select the form you created earlier from the drop down menu and wpforms will load a live preview of the form in the editor. you can now save and publish the page and visit it in your browser to see your contact form in action. if you need more detailed instructions, then see our step by step guide on how to create a contact form in wordpress. how to setup google analytics tracking google analytics helps you see how many people are visiting your blog, where they are coming from, and what are they doing on your website? it is best to install google analytics when starting your blog, so you can see how much your blog has grown over time. first, you need to visit google analytics website and sign in using your gmail account. once you are logged in, you can go ahead and sign up for a free google analytics account. you will be asked to provide your information and website url. after that, you will be presented with your google analytics tracking code. you can stop here because we will be using a plugin to automatically fetch and add this code to your blog (along with setting up proper wordpress tracking). switch to your wordpress admin area to install and activate the monsterinsights plugin. it is the free version of the best google analytics plugin for wordpress, and it is the easiest way to add google analytics on your site (trusted by over 2 million websites). upon activation, you need to visit insights » settings page to configure the plugin settings. on the settings page, click on the ‘connect monsterinsights’ button to connect google analytics to your wordpress site. follow the on-screen instructions to complete the setup. once done, you will be able to see your website analytics report straight from your wordpress dashboard under the monsterinsights tab. for detailed instructions, see our article on how to install google analytics in wordpress. how to optimize your wordpress blog for seo most beginners don’t optimize for seo when creating a blog. seo or search engine optimization helps users find your blog in search engines. if you want more traffic, then it’s crucial that you optimize your blog for seo from the beginning. to get started, first you need to install and activate the yoast seo plugin. it is the complete wordpress seo plugin that will help you optimize your blog. upon activation, you will see a new menu item labeled ‘seo’. clicking on it will take you to the plugins settings page. the plugin comes with a quick configuration wizard to help you walk through the set up. you can also follow the instructions in our yoast seo guide for manual set up. we also recommend you to follow our complete step by step wordpress seo guide to set up your blog’s seo. more wordpress plugins and customizations there are a ton of others wordpress plugins that you can install. often beginners find it a bit overwhelming to search for the plugins they need. at wpbeginner, we often feature the best wordpress plugins to help you add the functionality that you need. here is our expert pick of the best wordpress plugins that you should check out. backup – updraftplus is the best wordpress backup plugin. you need to create regular backups of your website in case something ever goes wrong. security – sucuri security is a free security scanner for wordpress. we have a complete step by step wordpress security guide for beginners that will help you secure your blog. performance – we recommend using either wp rocket (premium) or wp super cache (free) to speed up wordpress. for more on this topic see our article on wordpress speed and performance with step by step instructions. design & customization – we recommend using either beaver builder or divi page builder for customizing your homepage design, creating custom landing pages, or even creating custom themes (without writing any code). for more on this topic, see our article on best wordpress page builders (compared). if you are curious about the plugins and tools we use on our site, then check out wpbeginner’s blueprint. it has all the plugins and tools that we use on the wpbeginner blog. need more recommendations? see our expert-pick of the must have wordpress plugins and tools for all websites (hand-picked by our founder, syed balkhi). step 6. making money from your blog now that you’ve created your blog and customized it to your liking, you are probably wondering how can i actually make money from my blog? there are a lot of different ways to successfully monetize your blog. however there is no such thing as a get rich quick scheme. don’t be fooled by the pictures of expensive cars and mansions because those are all fake. unlike other “make money online” articles, we have created the most comprehensive guide on how to make money from your blog using wordpress. that’s a 4000+ word guide that everyone who want to make money with their blog needs to read. we have shared our 15+ years of online wisdom in that ultimate guide. as long as you’re willing to put in the hard work and effort, you’ll reap the reward. remember, there are no shortcuts. here are some of the best ways to make money from your blog. 1. google adsense many bloggers make money by showing ads on their blog. if you make a blog with monetization in mind, then google adsense is the best way to do this. it is the largest advertising platform for bloggers and publishers. acting as a middleman between you and the advertiser, google allow advertisers to bid for keywords matching your content. this allows you to get the best rates possible for the ads. for more details, see our article on how to properly add google adsense to your wordpress blog. 2. affiliate marketing affiliate marketing is the second most commonly used monetization strategy among bloggers. basically, you recommend your favorite products / services to your readers, and when they make a purchase you get a referral commission. the key in affiliate marketing is to recommend high-quality products and services that you already use and trust. there are plenty of affiliate marketing plugins and tools for wordpress that can help you make more money when promoting affiliate products. we also have a complete step by step affiliate marketing guide for beginners, that will help you get started. 3. online store many bloggers make money by selling things directly from their blog. this could be physical products, digital downloads like ebooks, artwork, music, and more. some bloggers even offer consulting services. we recommend using woocommerce because it is the best ecommerce plugin for wordpress. it is also the most commonly used ecommerce platform in the world. for detailed instructions, see our guide on how to easily create an online store using wordpress. on top of the 3 methods above, you can do so much more with your wordpress blog. you can make wordpress blogs specifically for reviews, fashion blogging, food blogging with recipes, and more. each of these blog types brings you more unique opportunities to make money. you can also turn your blog into a membership site to offer premium content and courses. step 7. mastering wordpress wpbeginner is the largest free wordpress resource site for beginners. at wpbeginner, our main goal is to provide cutting-edge helpful wordpress tutorials that are easy to understand for small businesses, bloggers, and non-techy wordpress website owners (see more about us). to expand your wordpress knowledge, you should check out: wpbeginner dictionary – the best place for beginners to start and familiarize themselves with the wordpress lingo wpbeginner videos – new to wordpress? watch these 23 videos to master wordpress. wpbeginner blog – the central place for all our wordpress tutorials. for more discussions, you may want to join our free facebook group wpbeginner engage. with more than 24,000 members, the group is focused on helping beginners and non-techy users do more with wordpress. you can also subscribe to wpbeginner’s youtube channel where we regularly share video tutorials to help you learn wordpress. lastly, you can use google to type your question and add wpbeginner in front of it. our users find this trick to be always helpful because it makes it easy for you to find the right answer for your wordpress questions. in case you don’t find an answer to your question, don’t worry. simply use our contact form to send us a message. our always helpful, full time wpbeginner support team, will be happy to assist. we love helping users get started with wordpress. frequently asked questions (faqs) having helped thousands of people start a blog, we have answered quite a lot of questions. below are the answers to the most frequently asked questions about creating a blog. can i create a blog without wordpress? yes, there are several other blogging platforms available. we have compared them all, and wordpress is by far the best solution in the market to make a blog with complete ownership and freedom. can i build a blog without hosting? no, that’s not possible. web hosting is where your website files are stored. all websites need web hosting. how much does it cost to start a blog? the cost depends on the add-ons that you buy. we have a complete guide on how much does a wordpress website cost as well as tips on how to save money. can i create a blog without my parents knowing about it? yes. you can make your wordpress blog private and hide it from the internet. here is a step by step guide on how to make your wordpress blog completely private. can i start a wordpress blog and make money with google adsense? yes, you can use your wordpress blog to earn money from google adsense. we have a step by step guide on how to add google adsense in wordpress. how can i create a blog and remain anonymous? if you want to have a public-facing blog but want to remain anonymous, then you need to make sure that your domain has whois privacy turned on. often people use a pseudonym / nickname to write under. you should also create a unique email just for your blog. it goes without saying, don’t post your pictures or anything on the blog. for more detailed instructions, see our article on how to blog anonymously using wordpress. how do i add a podcast to my wordpress blog? wordpress makes it super easy to start a blog and add a podcast to it. we have a step by step guide on how to start a podcast with wordpress. how do i come up with blogging ideas to write about? here’s an excellent guide that has 103 blog post ideas that you can write about today. here’s another guide on 73 types of blog posts that are proven to work. you can also follow this tutorial from blogtyrant on how to write a good blog post (12 expert tips) which will help you write great content. can i build a blog in my own language? yes, you can use wordpress in other languages. you can select your language during installation or from settings page in wordpress admin area. wordpress is fully translated in more than 56 languages and partially translated into dozens of other languages. many top wordpress themes and plugins are also available in multiple languages. you can also translate a theme or a plugin that you want to use on your website. how do i create a blog in multiple languages? want to start a blog in hindi, spanish, or multiple languages? here’s a step by step guide on how to create a multilingual website in wordpress. can i design a blog with no coding skills? absolutely. you don’t need any programming, coding, or design skills to create a professional-looking wordpress blog. wordpress themes are easy to customize and you can just point and click to set up your theme. there are wordpress themes like astra which comes with ready-made starter websites that you can import with one-click. there are other powerful themes like divi which give you complete drag & drop design options for customizing your blog. then there are powerful drag and drop page builders like beaver builder and divi builder that works with any wordpress theme. you can use it to just drag and drop items and design your own pages. you can even create your own custom theme without writing any code. can i add a photography gallery to my blog? yes, wordpress comes with a built-in gallery feature that makes it easy for you to add photo galleries in your blog posts. professional photographers can also use premium wordpress gallery plugins to better showcase their photos and even sell photos to make money from their photography business. how can i create a professional email address for my blog? if you’re serious about your blog, then we highly recommend that you create a professional business email address (it’s free). all successful bloggers use professional email address to stand out and make better partnership deals to grow their blog. we hope that you found our tutorial on how to start a wordpress blog to be helpful. you may also want to check out our article on 19 actionable tips to drive traffic to your new wordpress site. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 297 commentsleave a reply jaime says: mar 1, 2020 at 3:17 am seriously. best tutorial for getting started setting up a blogging site – and quickly! thank you so much! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 2, 2020 at 11:34 am you’re welcome, glad you’ve found our guide helpful reply coco o says: feb 12, 2020 at 9:33 pm i honestly can’t thank you enough! so grateful for this post and your existence!!! reply wpbeginner support says: feb 13, 2020 at 8:47 am glad our guide could be helpful reply auwalu d adam says: feb 2, 2020 at 5:34 am thank you for this wonderful tutorial reply wpbeginner support says: feb 3, 2020 at 8:54 am you’re welcome reply ana de langhe says: jan 27, 2020 at 1:48 am can i get started with bluehost as a wp beginner and then transfer my content to wordpress.org? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 27, 2020 at 12:00 pm if you create your site on bluehost then it would be a wordpress.org site reply alamin says: jan 23, 2020 at 9:19 pm thank you so much❤ reply wpbeginner support says: jan 24, 2020 at 8:54 am you’re welcome reply job says: jan 12, 2020 at 3:33 pm thanks for this info. i’m trying to create a blog purposely for affiliate marketing. i tried about a year ago on goddady but i could not set up a wordpress given my limited knowledge on design. is it possible that i follow these steps and set up a blog or i need someone with technical knowledge? thanks again for this article! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 13, 2020 at 11:42 am you should be able to follow these steps to create a blog reply afeni says: jan 5, 2020 at 3:19 am for years i was put off from using wordpress, now with this very simple video i’m sold. thank you, not often i’ll sit through a 30 mins of anything on youtube! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 6, 2020 at 11:20 am you’re welcome, glad our video and guide could be helpful reply sharique says: jan 4, 2020 at 11:38 pm the tutorial video which expalins the whole procedure of hosting and running a blog, whether or not is a wordpress.org or wordpress.com? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 6, 2020 at 11:21 am unless specifically stated, our articles are for wordpress.org and not wordpress.com reply muhammad wahed says: jan 1, 2020 at 9:13 am lot of stuff about wordpress thanks a lot reply wpbeginner support says: jan 2, 2020 at 10:18 am you’re welcome reply mouza says: dec 27, 2019 at 7:00 pm thank you for the amazing information… it’s really helping me put my mind at ease while doing the research for starting my own blog. looking forward to more advice from you and your team. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 30, 2019 at 11:27 am you’re welcome, glad you’ve found our content helpful reply bharat says: dec 19, 2019 at 11:04 am really great. a real blog is something that doesn’t let the reader to go to another blog and get the knowledge. this article is the only one which gives me all the info about wordpress. thanks wpbeginner website for giving such a deep analysis on wordpress not only for this blog but for the other topics you’ve covered reply wpbeginner support says: dec 23, 2019 at 10:27 am glad you’ve found our content helpful reply suprem says: dec 16, 2019 at 5:59 am a very nice and detailed article, easy to understand reply wpbeginner support says: dec 16, 2019 at 10:56 am thank you, glad you liked our article reply john says: dec 15, 2019 at 7:09 am your post is amazing reply wpbeginner support says: dec 16, 2019 at 10:37 am thank you reply dani says: nov 22, 2019 at 3:04 am this is a great post reply wpbeginner support says: nov 22, 2019 at 10:24 am thank you reply devaraj says: nov 9, 2019 at 9:20 am i have created wordpress site in localhost.how can i use that in bluehost? reply wpbeginner support says: nov 11, 2019 at 10:31 am you can transfer your site to bluehost using the method in our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-move-wordpress-from-local-server-to-live-site/ reply matt hedlin says: nov 9, 2019 at 8:45 am i’m attempting to find the dashboard, and from there can follow the above instructions. where is dashboard in a wordpress.com website? i tried appending /wp-admin but the screen is blank. appreciate your advice. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 11, 2019 at 10:29 am there are some differences between wordpress.com and wordpress.org so not all of our tutorials will work for wordpress.com sites: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/self-hosted-wordpress-org-vs-free-wordpress-com-infograph/ you would add /wp-admin to your domain when viewing url directly not when you’re in wordpress.com’s interface. reply arvin mendoza says: oct 28, 2019 at 5:07 pm so when you install the wordpress thru bluehost, it is the .org and not the .com wordpress? am i right? reply wpbeginner support says: oct 29, 2019 at 9:55 am correct, the site would be a wordpress.org site. reply henry says: oct 9, 2019 at 10:54 pm great detailed post! what is your opinion of siteground vs bluehost… which one is most capable of handling large websites? which is best for small sites just starting out? reply wpbeginner support says: oct 10, 2019 at 10:14 am for our comparisons, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wordpress-hosting/ reply billal hosen rubel says: sep 28, 2019 at 9:17 am thanks a lot for this informative post. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 30, 2019 at 10:14 am you’re welcome reply billal hosen rubel says: sep 27, 2019 at 5:44 am thanks a lot for posting this informative post. i always read your post on wordpress. all of the posts that were published on your website are very informative. i always follow your website. after all, you can say that i am a student of yours. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 27, 2019 at 9:46 am you’re welcome and thank you for reading our articles reply colleen says: sep 23, 2019 at 5:18 pm hello, i have enjoyed your newsletter and website for several years. i recently installed a new theme on a godaddy staging platform but, instead of the staged site having the format of the theme, it took on the layout of my current site. i want the layout of the new theme. i got into the admin and tried to recreate it but ran into roadblocks. i don’t know where to get help with this. can you give me any suggestions? thanks, again, for your good help. colleen reply wpbeginner support says: sep 24, 2019 at 10:01 am if your staging site isn’t updating to the design you’re trying to change it to, you would want to reach out to your hosting provider’s support for them to take a look. reply tim young says: sep 19, 2019 at 7:50 am i have subscribed to bluehost and installed wordpress and written a post. this guide says that i should press ‘publish’, but then goes through all of the other things that i am worried about such as plugins etc etc. i don’t want to publish until i have got everything else right. please advise. thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 19, 2019 at 10:18 am you’re not required to publish your post until you want it live reply ivy says: sep 14, 2019 at 10:23 pm hi, i have a wordpress website with my own domain however its suspended? would i be able to transfer my content from my old website to the bluehosting even tho my old website is suspended? also would i be able to transfer to free hosting instead? thank you reply wpbeginner support says: sep 16, 2019 at 10:47 am you would need to reach out to your current hosting’s support for getting access to your content. once you gain access you can transfer to a different host. reply jean baker says: sep 12, 2019 at 12:23 pm i started a free blog in wordpress and it’s a disaster. if i sign up with bluehost can i move my current blogs over to the new site or must i remove the current wordpressxxxxx.com site first? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 13, 2019 at 9:14 am you can move your content over following our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-properly-move-your-blog-from-wordpress-com-to-wordpress-org/ reply tango says: sep 4, 2019 at 11:57 pm hi, i find your site interesting. few hours back i tried to subscribe through my email but instead of it saying subscribed i still did not receive any mail stating the same. i am doing this again now but not sure if the subscribe button on your site is actually working. if possible kindly get me subscribed. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: sep 5, 2019 at 9:28 am thank you for letting us know, you may want to ensure that our email is not in your spam folder as another place to check reply vera okoro says: aug 29, 2019 at 3:57 am can we pay the blog hosting money monthly instead of yearly for new beginners ? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 29, 2019 at 10:21 am it would depend on the hosting provider you’re using for if they have that as an option reply sunil ilanthila says: aug 26, 2019 at 10:56 pm i have start my blogging career with reading articles of wpbeginner. this blog really a good asset to new or experienced once reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:44 am thank you, glad our tutorials could help you get started and continue to help reply rebecca says: aug 26, 2019 at 3:20 pm i have a feeling i am going to rely on the post frequently at first. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:18 am we hope to be a helpful resource for your return visits reply p.sai phanindra says: aug 26, 2019 at 8:26 am thank you very much.hope you help us if we are stuck anywhere. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 26, 2019 at 11:03 am you’re welcome, glad our content can be helpful reply ross lysinger says: aug 26, 2019 at 8:22 am thanks very much for this info! question on wordpress.org blog that i can’t figure out: how do i repost other peoples blogs and have them display on mine. when i try – all i get is a link displayed. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 26, 2019 at 11:04 am for what it sounds like, you would want to take a look at setting up an rss aggregator: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-fetch-feeds-in-wordpress-using-wp-rss-aggregator/ reply ahmed chikh says: aug 23, 2019 at 3:36 pm hi there, i m really interested in your wordpress blog setup offer, however your re not allowing a lot of information about, like what are exctly allowing, how are working with client, what is in the pack and what is not etc … ? !!! reply wpbeginner support says: aug 23, 2019 at 3:44 pm depending on what you’re wanting to know about, you would want to reach out using our contact form here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/contact reply ravi says: aug 20, 2019 at 4:01 am man thank you this article is really helpful. i have a question though how much time exactly does it take to start getting a proper income out of your blog? and how long have you been on this blog? some of the bloggers that i know say that it is very very hard now a days to get your blog running because there is a lot of competition in the market, is it true if so do you think a newbie can start it? thanks again. <3 reply wpbeginner support says: aug 20, 2019 at 10:17 am sadly, there are too many variables for a timeline on specifically when you would make a certain amount of income. for how long we have been around, it was 10 years this july 4th: https://www.wpbeginner.com/news/wpbeginner-turns-10-years-old/ reply burgess says: aug 9, 2019 at 10:52 am on wordpress.org, you said domain name and bluehost is free. how long does it last? is it free continuously? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 9, 2019 at 4:01 pm it is free for the first year, after which you would need to renew the domain reply kyle says: aug 7, 2019 at 3:07 am for a first time wordpresser like me, this was very, very helpful. gratitude. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 7, 2019 at 10:10 am glad our guide could be helpful reply l.arumugaperumal says: jul 25, 2019 at 12:57 pm i read it, but i have not yet studied. this guide is usefully for me. so i have bookmarked this page. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 26, 2019 at 9:30 am we hope our article can be helpful when you come back to it reply sheshadriraju says: jul 24, 2019 at 10:28 pm what will be cost after 36 month package? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 25, 2019 at 11:27 am for specifics on the pricing, you would want to check with the hosting provider you are using reply ghulam murtaza says: jul 24, 2019 at 6:42 am very nice information about how to start blogging. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 24, 2019 at 10:22 am thank you reply jane bryson says: jul 14, 2019 at 10:05 pm i have been so worried that i wouldn’t be able to go from installation to publish. after watching your video, i am confident that i can do it! thanks so much, wpbeginner. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 15, 2019 at 12:42 pm you’re welcome, glad our video could be helpful reply festus says: jul 14, 2019 at 6:26 pm when registering via bluehost, how do you choose between wordpress.com and wordpress.org reply wpbeginner support says: jul 15, 2019 at 12:00 pm if you register on bluehost then your site would be a wordpress.org site reply sachin pal says: jul 11, 2019 at 12:50 pm this is best way to learn about word press an start your blog .i m bignr too and i m start blogging now reply wpbeginner support says: jul 12, 2019 at 11:26 am thank you, glad our guide can help you get started reply terry boza says: jul 11, 2019 at 12:08 am waaaw ! excellent. one problem for me though , i’m a bit confused , are these steps for wordpress.org or wordpress.com ? completely newbie ! excuse my limited intelligent ; ) reply wpbeginner support says: jul 11, 2019 at 11:56 am our tutorials are for wordpress.org sites reply vana verouti says: jul 10, 2019 at 11:40 am at wpbeginner i always find the answer to my question. i follow your website since the very first moment i decided to start my blog thank you very much, your help is precious! love vana reply wpbeginner support says: jul 11, 2019 at 11:19 am thank you, glad our guides could help you reply miyat cortez says: jul 9, 2019 at 6:54 pm i have little knowledge about blogging and i’m planning on creating one but i can’t think of any content yet. this guide will be helpful for me.thank you reply wpbeginner support says: jul 10, 2019 at 10:53 am glad our content can be helpful reply faizan raza says: jul 9, 2019 at 5:03 pm how to start affiliated program from pakistan tell me plz. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 10, 2019 at 10:55 am if you’re wanting to start an affiliate program you would want to take a look at our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-create-a-referral-program-in-wordpress/ reply rashmi says: jul 4, 2019 at 5:26 am hi, firstly thank you for the great material. can i start a blog following the same steps but with the different web hosting? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 5, 2019 at 3:25 pm the steps to install wordpress may be different but the rest of the process should be the same reply vishnu dudipalla says: jun 28, 2019 at 9:14 am omg’ undoubtedly its a big big resource to wp beginners thanks @wpbeginners for making it so simple with ur detailed instructions & guides. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 1, 2019 at 11:52 am thank you, glad you’ve found our content helpful reply tammy c. says: jun 27, 2019 at 2:03 am hi! thank you so much for taking the time to list this resource! i’m new to blogging and owning my own site in general. do you recommend owning 2 domain names? ie. youdomain.com and yourdomain.com i heard there are situations people buy domains similar to the actual one and ransom it. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 27, 2019 at 10:55 am for most sites that shouldn’t be an issue that you should worry about, you should only worry about your primary domain and not ones similar to it. reply ayesha says: jun 24, 2019 at 6:46 am thank you so much. it’s helpful. i want to start a blog and a dropshipping store. i am just a beginner. should i start both at the same time? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 25, 2019 at 11:36 am you certainly can if you’d like reply ayesha says: jul 6, 2019 at 1:21 pm alright. i will. reply carin says: jun 23, 2019 at 1:39 pm great insight, thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 25, 2019 at 11:22 am you’re welcome reply issa dody says: jun 23, 2019 at 12:16 pm appriciate. but in this new vision how to set classic post are? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 25, 2019 at 11:12 am if you mean you want to revert to the classic editor you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-disable-gutenberg-and-keep-the-classic-editor-in-wordpress/ reply « 1 2 3 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.