wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to easily translate your wordpress with translatepress how to easily translate your wordpress with translatepress last updated on april 17th, 2019 by editorial staff 122 shares share tweet share pin did you know that you can install and use wordpress in multiple languages? yes, you can even create a multilingual website with wordpress by translating your content into different languages. in this article, we will show you how to easily translate your wordpress with translatepress. why use translatepress for translating a wordpress website the best part about wordpress is that it can be used in any language. most wordpress themes and plugins can also be used and translated into any language as well. if your business website have a multilingual audience, then it can be very beneficial to translate your content. you can use machine translations like google translate, but these translations are not good and sometimes can be quite misleading. on the other hand, if you’re using a multilingual wordpress plugin, then you need to create multiple posts which requires switching back and forth between different languages. translatepress is a wordpress translation plugin that helps you solve all these problems. you can translate your website and content using a live editor with the actual preview of each page on your site you can instantly switch languages from the live editor. translate your theme, content, and plugins easily using the same interface. use google translate for automatic translations and only edit the parts that don’t make sense. let’s take a look at how to easily translate your wordpress website with translatepress. translating wordpress with translatepress the first thing you need to do is install and activate the translatepress plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. if you want to translate your website to more than one language, then you will also need to install ‘extra languages’ add-on. you can do this from the download addons button under your account on translatepress website. after downloading the add-on, you can install and activate it like any other wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to visit settings » translatepress page to configure plugin settings. first, you need to switch to the license tab and enter your license key. you can find this information under your account on the translatepress website. after that, you need to switch to the general settings tab to setup other settings. the first option on the page is to choose the default language of your website, and the languages you want to translate your website into. next, you need to choose whether you want to display language names in the native language. the default option is ‘no’ which means language names will be shown in the default language. the next option is to choose whether you want to display the default language name in the url as a subdirectory. for example, http://example.com/en/. the default choice is no which means only the other languages will have the language name in url as a subdirectory. we recommend leaving this setting as-is for best seo. this brings you to the next setting, ‘force language in custom links’. the default option is ‘yes’, because that will change custom links for translated languages making the urls more seo friendly. next, you need to choose whether you want to use google translate for automatic translations. the default choice is ‘no’, but you can change that if you would like to use google translate. you will need to provide a google translate api key in the next option. you will find a link under the option which will show you instructions on how to get one. finally, you will come to the options on how you want to display the language switcher on your website. translatepress provides you with three choices. you can use a shortcode, add switcher to your navigation menu, or display a floating menu. we will show you how to add the language switcher to your website later in this article. go ahead and click on the ‘save changes’ button to store your settings. translating your website content to translate your website, you can simply click on the ‘translate site’ tab on plugin’s settings page or the button in your wordpress admin bar. this will open the live translation editor in a new browser tab. in this live editor, you can click on any text on your website in the right pane and translatepress will load it in the left column to translate. now click on the language you want to translate the string into and then provide your translation. after entering the translation, click on the ‘save translation’ button on the top and then click on the next button. translatepress will automatically load the next string on the page for you to translate. you can also just click on the drop-down menu below your default language, and it will show you the list of translatable text strings on the page. you can select a string and then provide its translation. you can translate all content on any page. this includes navigation menus, buttons, sidebar widgets, meta text, and more. you can also visit any page by clicking on the links on the screen and start translating that page. translatepress allows you to instantly start translating any page or post on your site when logged in. simply click on the ‘translate page’ button on the top to enter the live editor. once you have translated a string, the plugin will automatically translate it for you on other places. for example, if you translated a post title, then the post title in your sidebar widgets will be automatically translated. adding language switcher to your website language switcher allows your website visitors to select a language when they visit your website. it usually displays the flag of each country to indicate languages available on your site. translatepress allows you to add language switcher by using a shortcode, as a navigation menu item, or as a floating banner. the language switcher can be displayed as flags, language names, or both. adding language switcher in wordpress using shortcode you just need to add [language-switcher] shortcode to posts, pages, or a sidebar widget where you want to display the language switcher. adding language switcher to your wordpress navigation menu simply go to appearance » menus page and click on the ‘language switcher’ tab in the left column. now select the languages you want to display and then click on add to menu button. you will now see languages added to your wordpress navigation menu. don’t forget to click on the ‘save menu’ button to store your changes. this is how it looked on our test site: adding a floating language switcher go to plugin’s settings page and scroll down to language switcher section. from here make sure the box next to the ‘floating language selection’ option is checked. don’t forget to click on the save changes button to store your settings. you can now visit your website to see the floating language switcher at the bottom of every page on your website. we hope this article helped you learn how to translate your wordpress site with translatepress. you may also want to see our list of the best wordpress plugins for business websites. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 122 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 19 commentsleave a reply alvin malazarte says: mar 1, 2020 at 7:52 pm can i translate link and page titles using this plugin ? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 2, 2020 at 11:52 am you would want to check with the plugin’s support for questions like these, for the moment you should be able to update page titles with the plugin. reply jose aguirre says: aug 7, 2019 at 9:17 pm hi, i need to force a second language (not default language) in my site, how can do that ? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 8, 2019 at 10:50 am it would depend on your specific needs, if the method in this article is not what you want, you could take a look at our multilingual article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/how-to-easily-create-a-multilingual-wordpress-site/ reply anastasia says: jul 20, 2019 at 6:31 am what happens if i switch after a while to another translate plugin? would it leave traces, broken url …? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 22, 2019 at 12:43 pm it would depend on how the urls are structured in each plugin, if you check with the plugin’s support they should be able to let you know if you can recreate the urls you had before. reply anastasia says: jul 20, 2019 at 5:55 am hi, if i use automatic translater can i still edit manually my post before publishing? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jul 22, 2019 at 12:46 pm yes, unless there has been a recent change you should be able to edit the post reply hassan says: jul 2, 2019 at 6:59 am hi i want to translate a website (originally written in arabic) to english and i have all pages available in the website in english but i do not know how to link the arabic page to the same page in english reply wpbeginner support says: jul 2, 2019 at 12:47 pm if you’re using translatepress you would add the text using the translate site button and going to the page you want translated. reply ajay kumar says: apr 1, 2019 at 8:01 am i didn’t understand one thing is that we have to manually translate each and every word? is that the plugin going to work? if i want to translate into marathi then i have to write each and every word in marathi? am i right? then what’s the use of this plugin if we only gives the translations> reply wpbeginner support says: apr 1, 2019 at 1:55 pm the plugin does have the option to use google translate, the only issue with that is not all automatic translations work well. that is why it allows you to manually edit the content on your site. reply ajay kumar says: apr 2, 2019 at 7:44 am so, this only allows you to translate manually, there is no automatic translation, am right? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 2, 2019 at 11:26 am the plugin has the option to use automatic translation deals with google translate al sch says: mar 1, 2019 at 8:56 am hi, question – if i write a new post (in english, the original website language), will the post also appear in english on all the other websites in different languages? thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 1, 2019 at 10:17 am it would depend on if you’re auto-translating or not, by default you would need to translate the post as otherwise it would appear as your default language on the page for other languages reply al sch says: mar 1, 2019 at 10:19 am i would be translating things myself, but yeah it makes sense, thanks! i just wasn’t sure whether any edits, additions, etc on the english version automatically appear on the other versions. reply ivan says: feb 8, 2019 at 4:45 am i recommnd to use google translate to translate site becouse the quality of translation is 4 times better! i use my scripts for it. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 8, 2019 at 11:40 am thanks for your input, the plugin has the option to use the google translate api so users do not need to manually visit the translate page of google to get those translations. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.