wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how you can get involved with the wordpress project how you can get involved with the wordpress project last updated on october 15th, 2015 by editorial staff 93 shares share tweet share pin wordpress is an open source project where anyone can contribute which is why you can use wordpress for free. now if you have good programming skills, then you can contribute code to wordpress. but majority of wordpress users are not programmers, so how can they contribute? in this article, we will show you how you can get involved with the wordpress project. why you should get involved and contribute to wordpress? wordpress is free as in freedom. it is licensed in a way that allows you to download and use it for any kind of project without any cost. you are free to study and modify its source code. you can even sell your products using wordpress. see our guide on why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what’s the catch? hundreds of millions of people all over the world benefit from this wonderful project. as a wordpress user, you are already part of a global wordpress community. however, you can get more involved by giving back to the community. benefits of contributing to wordpress: you get to work with a project that is democratizing the web for everyone in the world. you will get a chance to meet and interact with awesome wordpress contributors. contributing to an open source project is always a great learning opportunity. you can find more opportunities for your business such as employment opportunity or contracts. wordpress related companies are always looking to hire / outsource to others in the community. how to get started when we said anyone can contribute to wordpress, we meant it. you don’t need to be a great programmer to get involved. all you need is a desire to share and be part of a global community of wordpress enthusiasts. there are many different ways to participate. find out which one suits you the best and then follow the instructions to get started. submitting patches to wordpress if you are an awesome programmer with great all around skills, then you should consider helping with the code. you can contribute patches to open bugs, take part in discussion on wordpress development, and suggest new features to wordpress. this is probably the most difficult way to get involved specially for beginners. it requires a lot of time / knowledge, and if you have a full time job, then you may not be able to give it your 100%. however, you don’t necessarily have to contribute code. you can always take part in discussions and help develop consensus on different issues during a wordpress development cycle. join make wordpress to find out different ways to get involved. testing alpha and beta releases wordpress is used by millions of users, that is why it is crucial that every wordpress release is thoroughly tested. you can help by downloading and installing development versions of wordpress on your local computer and test drive it. get started by installing wordpress on your computer (windows | mac). after that you can install wordpress beta tester plugin to automatically update your install to latest nightly builds. note: do not do this on your live site. only on local installs. submitting bug reports to wordpress if you come across a bug while testing or using wordpress, then you can submit it to the project for review. wordpress uses system called trac, which allows you to add a bug report, feature suggestion, patches, etc. see our beginner’s guide on using trac to get started. help translate wordpress in your language as a globally popular software, wordpress is available in many languages. see our tutorial on how to install wordpress in other languages to learn how to change languages in wordpress. making wordpress available in every language can only be done with the help of volunteers. this project is managed by wordpress translators team, you can follow and join the team by visiting wordpress polyglots website. you can get started by joining a local translation team. wordpress provides a simple user interface for translators, its called glotpress. you will be able to see a phrase from wordpress software in english and then add your translation in the text box next to it. help translate wordpress plugins and themes there are thousands of wordpress themes and plugins that help millions of users create beautiful websites. these themes and plugins need your help too. see our tutorial on how to find and translate a translation ready wordpress theme for instructions on how to translate wordpress themes and plugins. you may also find instructions on how you can contribute translations to a wordpress plugin on the plugins website. if you don’t see these instructions, then you can reach out to plugin or theme author and ask them how you can help translate. helping users in wordpress support forums each day thousands of wordpress users seek guidance and help on the official wordpress forums. helping each other is the essence of a strong community, and wordpress folks are the nicest bunch of people. see our guide on how to properly ask for wordpress support and get it. you can donate your time to help other wordpress users with their problems. no matter what your skill level is, you will always find users who know less than you and can benefit from your experience with wordpress. helping wordpress users around the web wordpress users are everywhere. all popular web design and development forums have a dedicated wordpress section. many wordpress users post their wordpress related questions on these forums as well. you can help by taking part in those discussions. some popular wordpress forums are wordpress stackexchange, wordpress on quora, wordpress on webmasterworld. if you run an online forum yourself, then you can help by adding wordpress section on your forum. this way you can build your own small wordpress community. attending or organizing a local wordpress meetup again, wordpress users are everywhere. you can find a wordpress meetup near your place, or may be start your own wordpress meetup. meetups are a great way to meet like minded people. you can share your tips and learn from other users experience. most importantly, you can make new friends. attending or volunteering for a wordcamp event wordcamps are wordpress events organized all over the world. these are official wordpress events supported by the wordpress foundation. you can attend a wordcamp near you and get a chance to meet your local wordpress experts, businesses, and users. you can also volunteer in a local wordcamp by donating your time and services in organizing the event. see our guide on how to make the most out of a wordcamp event. help your friends learn wordpress the easiest and most fun way to contribute to the wordpress project is by telling your friends and family about it. you can show them what they can do with wordpress, and may be help them install wordpress. you can talk about wordpress in your school, tell your classmates about it. basically all you will have to do is to tell them about how anyone can build their own website using wordpress. you can point them to wpbeginner’s free resources so that they can start learning wordpress on their own. support free wordpress themes and plugins with donations the official wordpress plugin directory has thousands of free plugins. writing and maintaining these plugins takes a lot of time and effort. if you are using a free wordpress plugin or theme and it has benefitted your website, then please consider donating money to the plugin author. your monetary donations will help developers cover the costs of time and effort they put in maintaining those free. more importantly, your donation will show that you appreciate their effort. we hope this article helped you find out ways to get involved with the wordpress project. you may also want to see our list of 9 most common misconceptions about wordpress. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 93 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. comments congratulations, you have the opportunity to be the first commenter on this article. have a question or suggestion? please leave a comment to start the discussion. leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) visualmodo coupon get 25% off on visualmodo's collection of beautiful wordpress themes. nextiva coupon get the lowest possible price on the best voip and business phone service. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.