i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: 5 ingredient oven broiled chipotle chicken wings with salsa negra recipes → 30 minutes → how to make teriyaki chicken jump to recipe 30 minutes/mains/meat/recipes how to make teriyaki chicken posted august 15, 2014 by stephanie teriyaki chicken used to be the only thing i ate at japanese restaurants. my dad tried to get me to eat sashimi, but as a 7-year-old, raw fish kind of grossed me out. i got over that pretty quickly though and raw fish is now one of my favourite foods. i still, however, hold a soft spot in my heart for chicken teriyaki. crispy chicken skin, glossy sweet sauce and fluffy white rice – there’s a comfort food meal right there. the funny thing about teriyaki is: even though you see bottles of teriyaki sauce at grocery stores in the rest of the world, teriyaki sauce is not actually sold pre-made in japan. “teriyaki” refers to a cooking method – the word comes from teri, meaning shiny, and yaki, meaning grilled. in essence, because i didn’t grill this chicken, it’s not technically teriyaki. it is, however, super delicious and quite easy. the next time you’ve got a teriyaki chicken craving, give it a try at home – kind of sort of how people in japan do! teriyaki sauce recipe makes about 3/4 cups 1/4 cup soy 1/4 cup mirin 1/4 cup sake 2 tablespoon sugar 2 teaspoons corn starch, if desired 2 tablespoons water, if using cornstarch combine the soy, mirin, sake, and sugar in a small pot and bring to a boil. in a small bowl, whisk the cornstarch and water (if using) into a slurry and then whisk into sauce. reduce until desired thickness. taste and adjust for seasoning if needed. teriyaki chicken recipe serves 2 2-4 boneless, skin-on chicken thighs teriyaki sauce 1 cucumber, thinly sliced 1 green onion, sliced toasted sesame seeds, if desired fluffy white rice or grain of choice cook the thighs in a dry pan (the chicken will render out enough fat that you don’t need to add any extra) skin side down, over medium-heat until the skin is brown and crispy, about 15-20 minutes. flip and cook the other side for 5 minutes and check to make sure the chicken is cooked through. rest on a cutting board for five minutes, then slice into strips and serve with teriyaki sauce with rice, cucumbers, green onions and toasted sesame seeds. alternatively you can cook the chicken and the sauce in one pan. cook the thighs, in a dry pan, over medium heat until the skin is brown and crispy, about 15-20 minutes. drain off any excess fat and then flip the chicken. add 1 tablespoon each of soy, mirin, sake and sugar to the pan and turn the heat to medium high. the sauce should bubble, boil and thicken. flip the chicken to coat in sauce. when the sauce has thickened to your liking, remove from the heat and serve. notes: 1. the first method, where you cook the sauce and chicken separately, will result in a crispier chicken. 2. you don’t need to add cornstarch to your teriyaki sauce – it does however, speed up the reduction time and gives you that sort of thick, glossy sauce that most north americans associate with teriyaki. 3. teriyaki isn’t a sauce at all. it’s a cooking method: grilled meat that’s been glazed with soy, sake, mirin and sugar. 4. you can substitute white wine for the sake, but sake is readily available at most grocery/liquor stores. same with mirin – it’s found in the asian aisle. ps – if you like this recipe, you can order my cookbook, easy gourmet! 38 comments shelly @ shelly in real life says: august 15, 2014 at 4:10 am oh wow, all your food is always so picture perfect – can’t wait to try this!! :) reply sophie says: august 15, 2014 at 8:10 am holy smokes, this is the prettiest teriyaki chicken ever! i used to think teriyaki was gross because in restaurants it’s always so sweet and cloying. homemade is the bomb dot com! i’m going to make this and drizzle it over your crispy-fried tofu! but wait. i really want that sriracha glaze, too….. :) reply steph says: august 15, 2014 at 8:55 am everything is always so perfect when you make it! i haven’t had chicken teriyaki in years but this makes me want to make it! reply matt robinson says: august 15, 2014 at 9:17 am absolutely awesome. i seriously could live on this chicken. loving your pics! reply hannah says: august 15, 2014 at 10:28 am what brand of soy sauce do you use? i think my teriyaki chicken never turns out because i am using the wrong brand, as some seem saltier than others. i love your blog! reply steph says: august 16, 2014 at 9:50 am for teriyaki sauce i like using kikkoman usukuchi :) reply adrianna from a cozy kitchen says: august 15, 2014 at 10:38 am i loooove teriyaki sauce. i used to be the same exact way as a kid. teriyaki chicken and rice was all i wanted! luckily i grew out of that and would never think to order it at japanese restaurants over sushi so it means it’s extra important that i make it at home. :) reply lyndsay // coco cake land says: august 15, 2014 at 10:39 am another awesome looking chicken recipe i am so trying, bud! totally one of my comfort foods too. my danger food, however, is chicken karaage… or any fried chicken… hehe! haha – love that your dad tried to get you to eat sashimi at 7. i heart sashimi now too! my parents would take us for japanese food when we were kids also – chicken t, tempura, kappa maki, and i loved looking at the menus and seeing gross looking unagi (still not a fave of mine) … so fun. teddy loves tamago and avocado roll! ^__^ reply vicky says: august 15, 2014 at 10:06 pm man the black sesame seeds really up that teriyaki chicken game – still lovin’ your food styling ways! and thanks for the reminder at the end – just preordered your book!! :) reply helen @ scrummy lane says: august 16, 2014 at 4:51 am thanks so much for this. it’s stupid, i know, but i had no idea that you could make your own teriyaki sauce. that crispy skin is really calling my name! reply kristina larsen says: august 16, 2014 at 7:41 am i think this is the most beautiful foodblogi ever seen – wow reply vertis boyce says: august 16, 2014 at 4:03 pm must try this. i am also going to do baby back pork ribs with steamed cabbage!!! reply jess @ the european food philosophy says: august 16, 2014 at 11:54 pm love teriyaki chicken! this looks so delicious! reply ken says: august 17, 2014 at 1:52 am nice reply paul says: august 17, 2014 at 4:47 am wow that looks so good. definitely going to have to try that reply nicole b. says: august 17, 2014 at 3:37 pm i’ve been craving good teriyaki chicken – thanks for the recipe. i love your blog by the way. your photography is incredible. reply js says: september 1, 2014 at 8:48 pm can you use chicken breasts for these and would you cook it the same way? just discovered your blog– love it! reply steph says: september 2, 2014 at 9:35 am depends on if you’re using skin on or off breasts. i’d recommend skin on – but they don’t need as long to cook as thighs and they have a tendency to dry out if you’re not keeping your eye on them. what you could do with breast is poach them, shred them and then put the sauce on top. hope that helps! reply priya says: september 6, 2014 at 9:26 am i just love your blog! i follow it since a year now. teriyaki sauce are sold here in india too but the ones i ate in authentic asian restaurants are totally different then the one cooked using the bottled sauce available in the market. i’d tried to cook many recepies from your blog but unfortunately not all sauces or veges that you use are mostly available here. i’d really love to see if u put up some more simplified gourmets using veges that are globally easily available. keep it up! love from india. reply keiko says: october 17, 2014 at 7:05 am good teriyaki chicken recipe! chicken looks so yumm reply leslie says: november 6, 2014 at 9:24 am i’ve made this recipe and my family loves it! when do you add the sugar to the sauce? reply steph says: november 6, 2014 at 12:41 pm whoops! you add it at the beginning. i’ve updated the recipe! thanks! reply joel says: january 19, 2015 at 6:41 pm hi! what a lovely blog you have. wonderful pictures and tastier food! i was wondering though – what rice did you use for this recipe? japanese rice or regular grained ones? thanks! reply steph says: january 20, 2015 at 6:12 am hi joel, i used koshihikari, a japanese short grain rice. reply mike says: march 4, 2015 at 3:19 am i love the images here in this page for the teriyaki, really good, the sauce being poured and the top header image i particularly like. you have done an amazing job there and very appetizing! reply claudia | the brick kitchen says: november 25, 2015 at 7:32 pm hey steph! just used this sauce last night to coat both chicken thighs and salmon and it worked absolutely perfectly with awesome flavour, thank you! a recipe i will be making again for sure :) reply teologia de cursos says: april 11, 2016 at 2:44 pm i can’t wait to try this! looks so good :) reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website chickenchicken thighsjapanesetake out at home other posts you might enjoy august 15, 2014 one bite mini lasagna roll ups recipe august 15, 2014 you need homemade tortilla chips in your life august 15, 2014 how to make the ultimate cheese platter august 15, 2014 egg and avocado breakfast taco recipe august 15, 2014 one pot weeknight lasagna soup recipe lemon pepper chicken with lemon and dill cous cousread one pan creamy dijon mustard mushroom chickenread extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toastread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved