mywifequitherjob.com primary menu skip to content home back to start start hereget your store running our story who is steve chou? blog get the latest podcast subscribe & listen toolsproducts i love income reportstrack my online progress how to increase your amazon sales rank by 209% with a simple photo tweak share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest steve chou click here to learn how to start your own online store as you probably know, the photo you choose for your amazon listing can mean the difference between losing a customer vs making a sale. and more importantly, the quality of your photo determines whether you’ll even get a click on your product in the first place! speaking from experience, i’ve run experiments on my online store where a simple photo swap resulted in a 2x increase in conversions and an equivalent increase in amazon sales rank. but how do you choose the “best and highest converting” photos for your listings? how do you know that you’re using the most profitable images for your products? here’s a simple way to find out… get my free mini course on how to start a successful ecommerce store if you are interested in starting an ecommerce business, i put together a comprehensive package of resources that will help you launch your own online store from complete scratch. be sure to grab it before you leave! click here to download table of contents the challenges of testing your photos testing your amazon listings how one podcast guest changed everything soliciting user feedback setting up the test the results of my poll traditional split testing vs pickfu conclusion the challenges of testing your photos when it comes to finding out what converts the best, you “usually” have to perform some sort of split test. and for all of you who are not familiar with the concept, split testing is where you take 2 different samples, show them equally to your customers and figure out which one performs the best. in fact prior to this year, it was the main way i gathered data for my ecommerce store. but the problem with traditional split testing is that it takes forever. every test that i run usually takes at least 3 weeks or more and i’d say that 9 times out of 10, my tests are inconclusive. the other problem with split testing is it requires you to insert a conversion pixel or some sort of tracking mechanism on your site so that you can measure an actual sale. anyway, the main issue with this requirement is that sites like amazon.com do not let you do this at all. as a result, it’s extremely difficult to run a good split test on your amazon listings. testing your amazon listings have you ever wanted to test different product images on amazon to see which one converts the best? have you ever wanted to test different bullet points to see which is more appealing? if you are an author, have you ever wanted to test different book covers to see which one is more clickable? right now if you were to do this, you would have to put up a listing, wait a few weeks, swap out the images for new ones, wait another few weeks and then compare the results. not only is this a major pain in the butt if you have multiple listings, but if you’re lazy like me, you’re never going to do it. in addition, amazon doesn’t let you put any special code on their site so traditional split testing methods are impossible. so this got me thinking… what if there was a way to solicit real user feedback about a product listing before even putting it up on amazon? sure, the results wouldn’t be as accurate as a true split test. but most likely it would be good enough. how one podcast guest changed everything a while back, i interviewed my buddy john li on my podcast where we discussed how he created the popular tool pickfu.com. and in case you don’t remember what his tool does, it basically allows you solicit real human feedback about anything within 10 minutes. for example, if you have 2 headlines and you want to know which one is more appealing, you can get feedback immediately. if you have 2 website designs and you want to know which one is more attractive, pickfu will get hundreds of people to provide their opinion in under an hour. if you want to know whether a product you want to sell has any potential demand, you can get an unbiased opinion. anyway after our interview, we started talking about potential applications in the ecommerce space and a huge light bulb went off in my head. why not use pickfu to get feedback on an amazon product listing before it goes live? soliciting user feedback so i thought i’d give it a try just for fun. below is a product that i currently have listed on amazon and i decided to use pickfu to see if the current product photo could be improved. here are the 2 photos that i decided to compare setting up the test just for the record, i normally hate setting up and running traditional split tests because they are a major hassle. but i was pleasantly surprised by how easy it was to setup a pickfu test. and the results were incredibly fast. there are 3 basic steps. enter a poll question upload 2 things to test select your demographic hit go wait 20 minutes and get instant results and the best part is that it’s super cheap to run a test. this particular poll cost me $16. by the way, john was kind enough to extend a 50% coupon code for all mywifequitherjob.com readers. please use coupon code: mywifequit to get 50% off (click here to run your first poll) note: normally this poll would cost $25 with the coupon. but i chose to target only females for my poll. there are a number of ways to restrict your test within a certain demographic but it costs more. the results of my poll here are the results! i started this poll at 8:48am on a sunday morning and got results at exactly 9:09am. that’s like 20 minutes! keep in mind that the image on the left is the actual image i’m currently using on amazon. but after running this poll, i’m definitely going to switch the photo in my listing. as you can see above, the second picture won by a landslide. but it gets even better. every single polled user also leaves verbal feedback as well! so not only do you get the results but you also get an unbiased explanation for the vote count. and finally, you also receive demographic information on who took the poll. if i were to do this all over again, i would probably restrict my poll to a wealthier audience because those are the customers i tend to attract in my wedding linens store. traditional split testing vs pickfu are the test results from my pickfu experiment definitive? probably not. but if a group of unbiased people are 3.16 times more likely to choose image b, then there’s a very high likelihood that image b will perform better on amazon. in any case, i want to say that a tool like pickfu will never ever replace traditional split testing. after all in a real split test, you are testing against real customers on an actual website. but here’s the thing. i’ve run a bunch of split tests in my day and they are major pain in the butt to setup even with the right tools. just recently, it took me several precious hours away from my family to setup a photo split test for my ecommerce store which is still in the process of running. meanwhile, split tests also take a long time to get results. and depending on your traffic levels, it can often take several months before you can get an answer. now it’s one thing if they always ended up providing conclusive results, but it’s rarely the case. and i would go as far as to say that over 90% of my tests don’t tell me jack. so from my perspective, i’m very reluctant to run a split test now unless it’s for something major. but for everything else, i’m more inclined to pay 10 bucks and get a quick 20 minute answer from pickfu. seriously, for something like amazon where split testing is impossible, it’s worth it to pay 10 bucks and get an immediate opinion on your photo or listing because there’s a lot of money on the line. go launch a quick poll right now for 10 bucks conclusion especially for sites that are not conducive to split testing at all like amazon, ebay or etsy, you should definitely solicit some unbiased feedback about your listing before it goes live. at a bare minimum, you should test your product images because they are arguably the most important part of your listing. and if you plan on making a living selling on amazon, it also makes sense to test your bullet points as well. if you run your own website but get very little traffic, split testing is often not an option either. for example if your site gets less than a few thousand hits per month, it might take you over a year to gather enough data to run a test and 90% of your experiments will yield inconclusive results. by soliciting some quick feedback with pickfu, you can easily address 80% of your conversion issues in a matter of minutes. so if you sell on amazon, ebay or etsy or if you run a low traffic website, i’d give it a shot and check your results. btw, if any of you have any split testing stories to tell, please enter them in the comments below. i’ve got a lot to share in this department because split testing, while useful when it actually finds something, has been frustrating for me in the past. once again, here’s the link for pickfu.com and use coupon code:mywifequit to save 50%. it will only cost you 10 bucks and the results could improve your amazon sales dramatically. ready to get serious about starting an online business? if you are really considering starting your own online business, then you have to check out my free mini course on how to create a niche online store in 5 easy steps. in this 6 day mini course, i reveal the steps that my wife and i took to earn 100 thousand dollars in the span of just a year. best of all, it's free and you'll receive weekly ecommerce tips and strategies! share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest note: this post above may contain affiliate links, which means that i may receive a commission if you make a purchase when clicking a link. please consult our privacy policy for more information. similar posts 8 product photography lighting tips to take amazing photos amazon seo – a step by step process to rank in amazon search how to report a seller on amazon and fight hijackers who steal or piggyback on your listing my results selling on amazon fba after 4 months and the pros and cons of the platform 5 amazon alerts that will change the way you manage negative feedback, inventory and sales have you read these? how to 2x amazon sales by using viral launch, scope and long tail pro to target new markets facebook retargeting – how to use dynamic product ads to generate a 12x return how to get rich – 20 lessons on making money when lifestyle is your priority private label vs retail arbitrage vs dropshipping vs wholesale – 8 ecommerce business models compared student shop: selling fabric wall decals at sunnydecals.com 6 thoughts on “how to increase your amazon sales rank by 209% with a simple photo tweak” ree klein says: wow, steve, this is awesome! i’m definitely going to give pickfu a try. i’ve known about split testing and wanted to try it but it seemed overwhelming and technical. this, however, is right up my alley. i’ll use it for testing designs i’m creating for a print-on-demand project i’m working on. i’m no artist so getting some objective feedback on which designs are more appealing will really help! i also sell on amazon so testing images will also be quite helpful because i agree, the images are critical for conversions. thanks as always ~ ree reply sara says: very cool. this works just like photofeeler.com does for linkedin and social media photos. reply carole @ emu bliss says: very cool, thanks for sharing. i’ll definitely be trying this. reply kevin says: hi steve, you mention conversion tracking pixels- do you recommend any particular platform? i’ve been using a tracker designed for affiliate marketing (voluum) but it has serious data retention limitations (6 months) and is pretty overkill for the sort of a/b testing that i do. (i always a/b/c/d ads to a/b landers and need the ability to adjust my traffic flows outside of my traffic platform (facebook, adwords, whatever)). i’ve been struggling for awhile to find a replacement for voluum. -k reply allan says: steve, it isn’t clear to me. where did you get this 209%? have you replaced your image with the one from the pickfu testing and then got an increase of 209%? reply aileen says: hi this is great info, and the photos look very professional. but correct me if i am wrong here, (and you may have just been using this to explain how a split test works) but i thought amazon policy was to have every thing on a white background and with only the product selling and nothing else, not even decoration?? reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. create a profitable online store! a completely free mini course on how to develop a niche ecommerce website in 5 easy steps! learn how to find products to sell and setup your online store. get the free course now! popular featured recent the dangers of selling on amazon and horror stories from real amazon sellers amazon fba – a 2020 guide to selling private label products canton fair – my guide to china’s largest wholesale supplier trade show how to start a business with no money. here’s exactly what i’d do how to find the best products to sell online – the ultimate step by step guide 12 things i learned from starting two 7-figure lifestyle businesses how to find china wholesale suppliers and import direct from chinese factories how much it costs to start an online store and should i dropship or carry inventory the best way to find wholesale suppliers, vendors and products for your online store how to approach a new wholesale vendor or supplier when you have no store, no site and no sales how long does it take to start an online business? private label vs retail arbitrage vs dropshipping vs wholesale – 8 ecommerce business models compared bigcommerce vs shopify – a review of the best shopping carts drip vs convertkit vs aweber vs mailchimp – reviewed by a 7 figure blogger how to start an online store, own your own website and sell online shopify seo – the definitive guide to ranking your store in search how to increase your amazon sales rank by 209% with a simple photo tweak poorly designed websites: 9 mistakes ecommerce store owners make (and how to fix them) why good grades often lead to failed businesses how to become an entrepreneur: convincing yourself to take action and the key to behavioral change recurring revenue – how to get repeat customers and why you must look beyond amazon how to start a wordpress blog on a shopify or bigcommerce store and should it be on a subdomain? how to figure out what you should do for a living if you hate your job convertkit vs aweber – a detailed email marketing comparison written by a 7 figure blogger 297: the financial repercussions of corona virus on our businesses recession 2020 – 5 ways i’m preparing for the downturn 296: 6 ways to become a millionaire in the next 5 years with steve chou amazon best sellers – how to pick top selling products for fba 295: cathy heller on how to make money as a musician how to get rich – 20 lessons on making money when lifestyle is your priority 294: grant baldwin on how to scale a niche business by 3x 293: arri bagah on how to do sms marketing the right way 292: mari smith on how to build organic facebook traffic today amazon dropshipping – is this risky business model worth it? 291: subtle conversion killers you aren’t accounting for with luke carthy shopify vs wix – which is better for ecommerce? where should i begin? read about our entrepreneurship story let's meet up at my ecommerce conference use the products i love and recommend learn how to start an ecommerce store for free learn how to start a blog for free get social about contact twitter facebook pinterest mywifequitherjob.com copyright 2020 all rights reserved. please read our privacy policy