start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising success mental strength advertising last updated on december 9, 2019 how to do what you love successfully dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. read full profile share pin it tweet share email these days, we are becoming more aware of the importance of self-care and pursuing what makes us happy, leading many to create the lives they want. however, we can still see the culturally ingrained image of the individual who is stuck in a life that they don’t want simply because they need to do certain things to survive. in fact, you may know people who do exactly this or you may lead a life like this yourself. you may feel the pull of rewarding activities that bring a smile to your face while doing the things that provide little spiritual value to your life. in all of the intricacies of society, we tend to forget one simple truth: life is meant for living. we only have so much time on this planet and we should waste as little time as possible on things that don’t make us happy. but how does one get started in their search for unbridled happiness? if you feel relatively unsatisfied with your life and want to start doing more of what makes you happy, you will find the tips you need to do what you love and develop the life you dream of in this article. 1. understand that life is all about balance the first major misconception that comes with building a positive life is that everything has to be positive. people are very quick to throw out the things that are negative and unenjoyable but learn just as quickly that this is simply not a realistic or sustainable way of living. advertising why? life is about balance. you can’t just do what you love because it is not possible. you are going to have to tackle things that aren’t fun in order to do what you love, and there are also aspects of that you love but are probably not fun as well. you are going to have to deal with things that are unpleasant while you seek out the positive. to enjoy the sweet fruits of your labor, you have to do the labor first. the overall goal is to create a life in which you can do as much of what you love as possible. however, it is important to know that there are still going to be things you have to do that are not so fun and that is absolutely okay. 2. know that you can’t be positive all the time another misconception is that one can be positive all the time. we see a lot of people promoting this lifestyle that is all happiness. a life void of sadness, darkness, and pain. the truth? life can be dark. you are going to deal with things that are painful, trying, and difficult. it is an unavoidable part of living life. you have to open your heart and soul to live a life worth living and this means opening it up for everything that could come its way. advertising rather than trying to escape, you need to build resilience to help you deal with these things and you need to learn to cultivate a positive mindset that helps you see the light in the darkness. you can’t avoid the dark aspects of life but you can embrace them and turn them into a learning experience that contributes to your personal growth. building a life you love is an extensive process but one that is extremely rewarding. here are some ways you can start working towards that higher standard of living. 3. learn what you love personally and professionally you can’t build a life you love if you aren’t completely aware of what you love and driven towards that passion. the first aspect of life that you will need to focus on is what you want to do during your leisure time, as this will be the easiest part of your life to change. make a list of things that you want to do more of during your free time. whether that involves spending more time with certain people, engaging in hobbies that make you lose track of time when you are doing them, or focusing on improving different aspects of your life such as your fitness or your financial situation, there are plenty of ways you can better utilize your free time by focusing on doing things you enjoy.[1] the second area of life that will take longer to build but is just as important is the professional part of your life. more often than not, we end up in career paths because of the money or security that they provide rather than because we love doing them. does this hold true for you? advertising if it does, you are going to have to ask yourself, what do you want to be doing? what is something that people would pay you for that also brings you joy? what is something that you could do for the rest of your life that you wouldn’t tire of? regardless of what that may be, it is important to keep that in mind as you work towards making the transition from your current employment to your desired career path. here’s a guide to help you find what you love in life: how to find your passion and live a fulfilling life 4. set goals that lead you towards your best life part of being human is wanting to have everything now. we all want to have the lives we want at the snap of our fingers. while there are some things we can incorporate into our lives in the moment, we are going to have to work hard for the other, bigger things. one invaluable skill that will take you far in life is learning how to properly set goals. if you have things you want in life, you are going to need to track your progress and continually move forward and accomplish things to carry you to your end goal and keep you there. although there are a myriad of tools and resources out in the world that will help you build upon this skill and become more productive and efficient in your day-to-day life, the concept of goal-setting is quite simple. all you have to do is develop a clear, specific picture of what you want, learn what you have to do to get there, break your goal down into small, achievable steps, and set a deadline for your goal. learn more about goal setting here: how to makes lasting changes with smart goal setting advertising of course, goals are only as effective as you are. you will have to make sure that you are following through on what you say you are going to do. otherwise, creating the life you want can become a longer, more painful process! 5. live your life with intent part of the reason why we end up in lives that we aren’t excited about is not that we are necessarily okay with the lives we are leading but, because we have fallen into certain habits. once we are accustomed to doing things a certain way, we continue engaging in those activities. the only way to get out of them is to realize that these habits are present in our lives and break free of them. living a happy life means living a life with purpose and intent. every decision that you make should ultimately be what you want and help you work towards the things that you are searching for.[2] this means that you are going to need to create a life that allows you to break these cycles and help you develop healthier habits that are beneficial to you. you can do this by making simple changes such as eliminating distractions and setting up simple reminders and motivators that drive you to change. once you’ve developed new habits, you can then become more mindful of the habits you are engaging in, so that you can begin taking on that which only serves your growth and happiness. when you start living your day-to-day in the way you want, you are going to get much more out of what life has to offer. bottom line doing what you love means living a life you love and when you think about it, shouldn’t that be everyone’s goal? getting started is as simple as realizing what you want, getting rid of what you don’t, and setting yourself up for success, three tips that you can learn more about with the guide above! more about living your dream life 10 reasons why following your passion is more important than money 9 mindset shifts that will help you live your dream life 7 steps to start living your dream life right now featured photo credit: štefan štefančík via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ tinybuddha: the first steps toward creating a life you love [2] ^ success: it takes intentionality to create a life you love share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 7 steps to start living your dream life right now how to makes lasting changes with smart goal setting 9 mindset shifts that will help you live your dream life advertising advertising more by this author dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it how to figure out what motivates you at work 25 hard work quotes to motivate you to achieve more how to do what you love successfully how to deal with failure and pick yourself back up advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it how to figure out what motivates you at work 25 hard work quotes to motivate you to achieve more how to do what you love successfully how to deal with failure and pick yourself back up trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next 74 healthy habits that will drastically improve every aspect of your life the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) advertising advertising podcast mental strength advertising last updated on march 26, 2020 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email in this episode of the lifehack show our guest is nicole lovald, former corporate addict turned yogi, life coach, and self-care advocate. she is the author of the book om sweet om: a corporate junkie's search for enlightenment . nicole has a background in counseling veterans, at-risk children, and victims of trauma as she has always been passionate about helping people overcome adversity and change their limiting beliefs into a more progress based mindset. here she shares her insights on how yoga can act as the ultimate form of stress relief and help you change your life. listen to the episode here: view on you tube featured photo credit: lāsma artmane via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.