home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to stop procrastinating and keep writing be productive tips for writers by daniel brotzel do you want to know how to stop procrastinating ? it’s taken me almost an hour to make a start on this post. first, i had to have a coffee, then i needed to check facebook, then twitter. note the hyperbolic phrasing of that last sentence–“had to”, “needed”–almost as if i had no choice. and i’m certainly not alone in this attitude. procrastination seems to have become an accepted, even acceptable, burden of the modern writer–something we must just deal with, like the weather, or editors. it doesn’t have to be this way. writers like ernest hemingway and kurt vonnegut managed to follow exceptionally disciplined routines. i know, i know–they were writing before the age of social media. fair enough, the distractions these days are probably more insistent and pervasive, but that doesn’t mean they can’t be overcome, and there are plenty of highly productive contemporary writers out there to prove it. so how do you go about slaying the demon of delay and get cracking with that novel? as a seasoned vacillator myself, who will happily put off, postpone and defer until the cows are home and my editor has lost all patience, i’ve done some thinking on the subject (usually when i should have been writing). after experimenting with different ways on how to stop procrastinating, i’ve hit upon a few strategies that really seem to help… establish a realistic routine the aforementioned hemingway and vonnegut would get up ridiculously early and write for hours before breakfast. among contemporary novelists, haruki murakami follows a similarly exacting schedule. this isn’t for everyone. you know better than anyone when you’re at your most creatively energetic. establish a daily routine based around your natural biorhythms, be it first thing in the morning or last thing at night. (for me, it’s from around 7 till 11 am.) if you can do that, you’re much more likely to stick to it over the long term. once you’ve found your productive sweet spot, give yourself a realistic number of hours at a stretch where you’re unlikely to be disrupted by physical needs such as food or caffeine. an uninterrupted four-hour session is just about ideal. have a clear plan procrastination is often just a symptom of something else that’s wrong. for example, you might be uncertain about where your novel is going or what the next stage should be, or you may be getting bogged down in a particular scene – you know it’s not right, but you’re unsure how to fix it. far easier in these difficult moments to retreat into something more immediately pleasurable such as instagram or a game of fortnite. you can prevent this sort of situation arising before you even start on the novel by having a clear and detailed plan. map out each scene, so you know exactly what you’re going to say and how you’re going to say it. that way, when it comes to the actual writing, it should flow much more smoothly. set achievable goals so you’ve established your daily routine and have a clear plan for how to write your novel. the next step is to decide how much you’re going to write each day. the temptation is to write a full chapter or scene in one session. it looks like a neat and logical way of progressing, and it means you can follow through any thoughts you have about a particular scene while they’re still fresh in your mind. there’s also the sense that the flow of your creativity matches the rhythms of novel itself. author is in sync with reader. perfect, right? wrong. chapters or scenes are not only different lengths but also present writers with different kinds of challenge. this is why i’m not a fan of wordcount targets either. writing isn’t the same as typing, or it shouldn’t be! you write at varying speeds, depending on the scene. consider each scene on its merits and make your own judgement as to how long it will take you, based on its complexity. be realistic about what is achievable, because there’s nothing more demotivating (and likely to tempt you back to your old procrastinating ways) than missing a target. keep the love alive the trouble with writing a novel, especially in the later stages, is that your relationship with it becomes a little like a marriage. you love it, of course, but it’s a familiar, companionable kind of love, not the sort that sends you racing to your study, heart pounding, at the start of each writing session. so you need to find ways to keep things spicy in the study. i’m not talking here about fantasy role play (like pretending your novel is an attractive young novella for instance…), but a different kind of tease. the way i do this is to make sure i end each session in the middle of an exciting scene. you know exactly how the next line will go, and you’re eager to write it, but you don’t. you save it for the next session. believe me, this really works. the following day, instead of idly checking a news website or watering the plants, all you can think about is getting back to your wife, i mean novel. don’t let the perfect become the enemy of the good the trouble with novels, once written, is that they’re never quite as good as they were when they were still in your head. something i sometimes do, and i’m not sure if other writers experience this, is compulsively write the same scene again and again. my rationale, i suppose, is that the more i work at it, the closer i’ll get to my original, perfect conception. so like a mad sculptor i’ll chip away at it for hours, searching for some platonic ideal of the scene that probably doesn’t exist. to any outside observer i would look like i’m working on my novel. in truth, it’s just another form of procrastination. i’m not making any progress, i’ve just got stuck in part of it and can’t move on. so these days, when i find myself obsessively rewriting a passage, i’ll get up and go and do something else for a while. nine times out of ten, when i return to my desk i’ll realise the scene i’ve written is perfectly fine, and i’ll move on. avoid distractions and resist temptations before you begin your daily writing session, switch off the phone, email and all other electronic distractions. lock the door on your family and inform them that that they can only disturb you in the direst of emergencies. if possible, try to minimise ambient sounds such as street noises. prior to your session have a refreshing beverage and/or meal, so you won’t be disturbed by your own thirst or hunger. declutter your desktop (both real and digital) of documents or anything else that might distract you. in short, provide yourself with the best possible environment for focused creative work. and finally… how to stop procrastinating for good writing is hard work. struggling to fashion our thoughts and ideas into fine words takes effort. we may suffer from self-doubt, or fear that we have nothing original to say. the rewards of novel-writing are very back-loaded, with all the praise and money (if any) coming long after the effort of creation. it’s therefore unsurprising that we sometimes long to be anywhere but at our desk, seeking more immediate rewards online or in the fridge. i don’t pretend that there isn’t a degree of self-discipline implicit in the strategies i’ve outlined above, but in finding and sticking to a daily routine, there should also be pleasure. the real key on how to stop procrastinating is rediscovering the pure joy of creativity that led you to become a writer in the first place. what are your tips on how to stop procrastinating? let me know in the comments below. tweet pin share related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson about the author daniel brotzel dan brotzel, along with alex woolf, is co-author of a new comic novel, kitten on a fatberg (unbound). as a reader of this blog, you can order kitten on a fatberg for a 10% discount – just quote promo code kitten10 ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >