kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! how to shop safely in a pandemic posted by jason kottke mar 26, 2020 note: please check the updates below for some important corrections to some of the information in this video. from dr. jeffrey vanwingen md, a video on how to ensure that your grocery shopping experience is as safe as possible and to avoid potential covid-19 infection from plastic and metal surfaces. i’m going to be honest with you: a lot of this seems like overkill (as it should — see the paradox of preparation). however, this is also pretty much what i’ve been doing after grocery shopping for the past 2 weeks because i am a fastidious motherfucker1 with plenty of time to wipe down groceries. if it comes down to a choice between watching 7 more minutes of the mandalorian or wiping down my groceries before putting them in the fridge, i’m gonna wipe them groceries. baby yoda can wait. see also this pdf from crumpton group about how to keep your household free of the outside effects of the covid-19 pandemic. household members should understand that their principal effort should be directed towards isolating the inside of the home from the pandemic effects outside. all physical thresholds of the home will serve as a cordon sanitaire. strive to decontaminate everyone and everything to the best practical degree before entering. many of dr. vanwingen’s recommendations mirror those in the pdf. see also expert guidance on covid-19 and food safety. (thx, meg) update: i have not had a chance to read it yet (was attending to some other things this evening — family, trying to have some normalcy), but i’ve been told that this thread is a good response to the video above. i’ll have a closer look at it tomorrow. update: ok, i’ve read don schaffner’s thread criticizing this video. at least i think this is the video he’s referring to because he never says it outright — which i’ll get to in a minute. (schaffner is a professor in the food science department at rutgers who i linked to the other day in my post on covid-19 and food safety.) as he notes, there are a couple of factual errors and vanwingen does offer some dubious advice, particularly about washing food with soap (which i didn’t take seriously). i do not believe, however, that vanwingen was suggesting that people leave frozen items and perishables in a warm garage for 3 days and that the normal rules of food safety are somehow countermanded by potential coronavirus contamination. if you want to leave that box of cheerios that you don’t need in the car for 3 days, go right ahead. he definitely should have been clearer on that point though. but the bulk of vanwingen’s video was about how to handle your groceries and takeout food coming into your house to minimize the chance of infection. (and as i mentioned, much of it mirrors the advice in this document and in dr. michael lin’s document from a couple of weeks ago — this isn’t just his opinon or my opinion.) if we are to take seriously a) the assumption that anyone could have covid-19 (including yourself & grocery workers) that we are operating under w/r/t to handwashing & keeping a 6-foot distance, b) the preliminary results that suggest that sars-cov-2 can last on some surfaces for days, and c) that person-to-surface-to-person transfer of sars-cov-2 might result in infection (i.e. the reason we are doing all this handwashing and face not-touching), then we should be disinfecting surfaces that other people have been touching recently. right? we should assume that all surfaces are contaminated. this doesn’t seem outlandish, especially when grocery stores are restocking shelves continuously — that bag of chips that you put into your cart may have been placed on the shelf only 30 minutes before. how is disinfecting your oreos package when you get home from the store a bad idea? sure, wash your hands before you eat, but if you have kids, you know how futile that can be sometimes, especially when oreos are involved. so why not just clean the package? ditto with transferring takeout food to new containers and giving it a blast in the microwave to warm it up. schaffner’s stance is that most surfaces aren’t contaminated to a high degree, which is undoubtably true. having watched the video & read schaffner’s advice (and other advice by other experts), where your personal comfort level with making sure the surfaces you and your family come into contact to are disinfected is up to you. ultimately, advice from experts is still advice and you have to figure out whether it works for you. it’s easy to believe you should wash your hands frequently because that’s universal advice. but “you should disinfect surfaces you touch” and “you don’t have to worry too much about disinfecting your grocery packages” are genuinely conflicting bits of advice from well-meaning experts! you’ve gotta use your noggin and make up your own mind, based on your personal idea of risk and safety. it’s gonna land differently with different people. finally, i’m going to get a little cranky here, but i found schaffner’s overall tone in the first few tweets of that thread mocking, ungenerous, and unhelpful. instead of gently offering alternative authoritative advice, he subtweeted (by refusing to link to the video and calling dr. vanwingen not by his name but referring to him as “the video md”) and made fun of vanwingen’s outfit. i know it must be frustrating to see what you perceive as misinformation out there, but we do not need doctor vs doctor battles here. everyone’s just going to get defensive and dig their heels in. </cranky> hey, if you don’t know what you should be doing in a certain situation w/r/t to coronavirus, just ask your most detail-oriented friend. you know, the one who shows up to things on time and is usually a fussy pain in your ass. they’ll have a plan all ready to go and will be happy to share it with you because they’ve been waiting years for some shit like this to happen. now is our time to shine!↩ more about... covid-19 don schaffner food how to jeffrey vanwingen medicine science video ads via carbon kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives