evernote created with sketch. back to blog home sign up or log in asset 10 asset 11 log in created with sketch. back to blog home download app product asset 6 why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features asset 6 web clipper templates spaces integrations - microsoft teams - slack - salesforce community asset 6 our community certified consultants developers events forum support asset 6 help & learning troubleshooting blog company asset 6 about us careers contact us asset 15 facebook asset 14 twitter asset 18 linkedin asset 16 youtube asset 19 medium asset 17 instagram choose a language: english 繁體中文 english français deutsch 日本語 한국어 português español productivity how to write effective meeting minutes david perez • july 12, 2019 meetings can challenge our focus—to put it gently. that’s why meeting minutes are crucial. good minutes help everyone remember what was said, track any decisions, and clarify action items. without them, confusion can set in as everyone’s attention starts to wane. if taking meeting minutes is your responsibility, you’ve no doubt faced the eternal dilemma: write too little and you risk missing a vital detail. write too much and you saddle your colleagues with the unhappy task of separating what’s important from what’s totally irrelevant. assuming you don’t want to willfully torture your co-workers, here are five strategies to help you capture the essentials and make your meeting minutes more effective. 1. set an agenda ever been in a meeting that strayed so far off topic you silently asked the universe, when will this end? we have too. here’s where a good agenda comes in handy. according to dr. tabitha hart at san jose state university, agendas give structure to your meetings. this helps everyone focus on what matters so you don’t have to wade through as many irrelevant ideas while you’re taking minutes. to create your agenda, write down every step of your meeting and make sure each item is: specific and realistic within the scope of the meeting results-oriented and helps guide the discussion assigned a reasonable amount of discussion time 2. use a reliable note-taking app it isn’t always clear in the middle of a meeting how everyone’s ideas should be structured on the page. writing down meeting minutes by hand makes it hard to re-organize them later. using a reliable note-taking app like evernote will make taking minutes much more efficient and ensure the meeting details are legible and easy to update. you’ll be able to record minutes quickly and share the information with co-workers, as well as search previous notes. 3. include a few key components in all your meeting minutes minutes should be clear at a glance, so anyone who reads them days or weeks later can quickly find what they need. to achieve this, include: the names of all participants in the meeting the agenda items a calendar of due dates and action items the main points of the discussion any decisions made during the course of the meeting 4. think about the future this is a simple but powerful strategy to help you easily avoid the trap of taking down every little detail. while you’re taking minutes, ask yourself if what you’re writing will matter in the future—if not, leave it out. summarize conversations if they’re truly important and keep emotions out of your notes. 5. don’t be afraid to speak up you’re taking minutes in a meeting and someone uses a code word or abbreviation you haven’t heard before, or maybe they’re not as articulate as they could be. do you chime in and ask for clarification? yes! as the meeting minutes recorder, it can be intimidating to pause the conversation. however, you should speak up if you’re unsure of what someone said or what the group just discussed. if you’re behind, you’re probably not the only one. here are some phrases that can help get everyone on the same page: “i believe you just said [statement]. is that correct?” “sorry if i’m behind the curve here, but could you clarify [concept]?” “i’m not sure i’m following this part of the conversation. could you recap what you said about [concept]?” “i apologize if this is obvious to everyone, but what does [concept/word] mean?” these tips should help you avoid feeling like you have to fiercely click away at your keyboard to take down everything that’s said. apply these strategies to your minutes to convey more important ideas with fewer words, and your teammates will thank you. share article asset 11 organize your work and unclutter your life with evernote. sign up for free more in productivity productivity making the most of working from home learn telecommuters’ secrets for working from home as you tackle it for the first time. productivity the 4 ds of habit creation creating positive habits takes more than just willpower. see how habits are formed and how you can change your behavior to create the life you want. productivity how to make a plan and get what you want in life see how creating action plans can have cascading benefits for life — and how to build a manageable plan toward accomplishing your goals. product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations - microsoft teams - slack - salesforce community our community certified consultants developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose blog language: english 繁體中文 english français deutsch 日本語 한국어 português español asset 15 facebook asset 14 twitter asset 19 medium asset 17 instagram asset 16 youtube asset 18 linkedin © 2019 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy