how i make $100 a day on twitter – lifestyle by ps
  home sweatshirts t-shirts blog expand submenu blog collapse submenu blog fashion fitness grooming log in create account cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us your cart close cart site navigation home sweatshirts t-shirts blog fashion fitness grooming log in search cart cart how i make $100 a day on twitter dec 05, 2019 if you follow my account on twitter you will know i am very big on how to monetize twitter accounts i have helped monetize over 100 accounts so far ranging from avid users to people that only tweet every so often so i wanted to help you do the same here below we go over three easy ways that you can monetize your twitter account right now and start getting paid for your twitter time. 1. sales from your bio i have honestly seen it time and time again, people arguing about politics, sport, finance... anything for hours and hours on twitter most for free.... but it doesn't have to be for free you can quite literally put a product related to what you tweet about in your bio, even if you are only semi-active there will still be 1000+ that read your bio monthly and this is free traffic 2. lead magnet use a lead magnet in your bio and tweet it out regularly to get other users emails... emails are worth $$$ and once you have them they are yours to keep 3. affiliate sales i have guys with only a few hundred followers making 1k+ a month by just tweeting out other twitter users products on an affiliate link. so easy all you need to do is approach some of your favourite twitter accounts with a product to sell and ask to affiliate for them. start doing these things and i promise you... twitter goes from being a distraction to an income enjoy how i make $100 a day on twitter click here tags: how to make money on twitter twitter money share share on facebook tweet tweet on twitter pin it pin on pinterest our site is built on shopify. you can too build a money making store. start your store on shopify click here to try shopify for free (14 days free trial with this link) ← back to make money online disclosure : lifestyle by ps is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us facebook twitter pinterest instagram google plus © 2020, lifestyle by ps ecommerce software by shopify paypal inr aud cad eur gbp usd search