millionaire trader preferred broker blog penny stocks 101 (guide) how to find good penny stocks 6 crazy day trading myths versus reality earnings per share guide after hours trading tips pre-market trading: prep techniques for traders operating income guide 37 stock market terms you should know how to short a stock (guide) more blog posts … press about tim sykes how i nailed a midday runner thanks to a student alert {video} share how much has this post helped you? (2 votes, average: 3.00 out of 5) loading... about tim sykes is a penny stock trader and teacher who became a self-made millionaire by the age of 22 by trading $12,415 of bar mitzvah money. after becoming disenchanted with the hedge fund world, he established the tim sykes trading challenge to teach aspiring traders how to follow his trading strategies. he’s been featured in a variety of media outlets including cnn, larry king, steve harvey, forbes, men’s journal, and more. he’s also an active philanthropist and environmental activist, a co-founder of karmagawa, and has donated millions of dollars to charity. read more have what it takes to become successful? let me walk you step-by-step through how i earn profits. take action now. work with tim get my weekly watchlist, free signup to jump start your trading education! 100% privacy. i will never spam you! tim's best content current all time case studies why your trading chat room is key coronavirus risk: what’s really at stake how the coronavirus sports ban can help you learn to trade smarter millionaire mentor update: urgent coronavirus update the pandemic effect: coronavirus stocks and sectors the bear market edge: coronavirus stock sympathy plays penny stocks 101 the best video lessons every penny stock trader and short seller should watch 10 key stock market lessons from my first millionaire student** 5 lessons from my steve harvey show interview how i helped a student turn $1,500 into $1 million in 3 years my review of ‘trading tickers’ the best stock trading guide ever created case study: how i taught tim grittani to make 1075% return in 16 months case study: how i helped a mother of two become a full time trader day trading testimonials "i'm a 29 year old single mother of two. i do not have a regular 9 to 5. i am currently day trading as a living. prior to discovering timothy sykes i played around with a couple other mentors and penny pick sites. sadly not being taught the basic fundamentals i lost $5500-terrible! i found tim's website in may and now i'm up 50k learning from tim sykes. i am extremely grateful for tim, he is the truth hands down!" - asheya burton learn how i turned $12,415 into $5,119,603 trading stocks - timothy sykes of profit.ly click here to learn more comments are closed. about timothy sykes i became a self-made millionaire by the age of 21, trading thousands of penny stocks - yep you read that right, penny stocks. you may have heard ... read more tim's important resources penny stocking 101: how to get started with penny stocks which penny stocks to buy how to invest in penny stocks home about affiliates chatroom contact tim ** results may not be typical and may vary from person to person. making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. there are inherent risks involved with investing in the stock market, including the loss of your investment. past performance in the market is not indicative of future results. any investment is at your own risk. see terms of service here.. millionaire media 80 s.w. 8th street suite 2000 miami, florida 33130 united states (203) 980-1361 this is for information purposes only as millionaire media llc nor timothy sykes is registered as a securities broker-dealer or an investment adviser. no information herein is intended as securities brokerage, investment, tax, accounting or legal advice, as an offer or solicitation of an offer to sell or buy, or as an endorsement, recommendation or sponsorship of any company, security or fund. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes cannot and does not assess, verify or guarantee the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information, the suitability or profitability of any particular investment, or the potential value of any investment or informational source. the reader bears responsibility for his/her own investment research and decisions, should seek the advice of a qualified securities professional before making any investment, and investigate and fully understand any and all risks before investing. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes in no way warrants the solvency, financial condition, or investment advisability of any of the securities mentioned in communications or websites. in addition, millionaire media llc and timothy sykes accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this information. this information is not intended to be used as the sole basis of any investment decision, nor should it be construed as advice designed to meet the investment needs of any particular investor. past performance is not necessarily indicative of future returns. ©2007-2020 timothysykes™ all rights reserved. millionaire publishing llc terms of service and user agreement privacy policy (statement) earnings disclosure member agreement code of conduct what people are saying we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.✖