start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising happiness mental strength advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness jacqueline t. hill writing, blogging, and educating to guide others into happiness read full profile share pin it tweet share email when in conversations about finding inner peace and lasting happiness, everyone seems to have a definition or ideology about the topic. some of these definitions are correct or at least point us in the right direction but a couple of others are just misconceptions. peace, as you rightly believe, is the absence of fear and pandemonium but that doesn’t mean that fun doesn’t exist where peace is. this is what some people picture inner peace as. no fun, no pleasure, just plain boring. but is that true? in this article, you will learn how to find inner peace and happiness. table of contents what is inner peace and happiness? what does it mean to have inner peace and lasting happiness? why is inner peace important? how to find your inner peace and happiness final thoughts more to calm your mind what is inner peace and happiness? as wikipedia puts it,[1] “inner peace refers to a deliberate state of psychological or spiritual calm despite the potential presence of stressors. peace of mind is thus, generally associated with bliss, happiness, and contentment.” the first line says, “despite the potential presence of stressors.” do you realize that it doesn’t say “in the absence of stressors?” this goes on to suggest that inner peace doesn’t take away your problems. it doesn’t take away national issues that affect you either or just instantly solve all the jigsaws in your life. note again that it doesn’t just say “stressors” but “potential stressors.” what does that mean? everyone knows that life isn’t a bed of roses so even if anyone happens to be lying on the side with an abundance of roses, there is this constant thought of “what if?” what if i lose everything tomorrow? what if someone i love dies tomorrow? what if i fail my finals? what if i lose my job? advertising as much as you try to ignore these thoughts, you can’t deny their presence or stop them from coming. so what’s the point of the whole inner peace thingy? it makes you calm even when these thoughts abound. the literal meaning of inner peace is, “a state of mind where calmness and satisfaction exist with all other unwanted factors being constant.” this brings leads to the definition of lasting happiness. people say that happiness depends on happenings which means that bad events take away our happiness. in reality, bad events tamper with our minds but this is where peace of mind comes to play. when inner peace exists, it does so with happiness so when these so-called bad events come around, the worst they can do is make you sober and more reflective. your mind remains at peace. what does it mean to have inner peace and lasting happiness? knowing what inner peace and happiness mean is quite different from having it. ironically, many people know about this concept and can even teach it but nothing about their lives depicts it. you may have seen people who always appear happy and lively no matter what happens and you just keep wondering if they live on the same planet as you do. probability is that they have mastered the art of finding and keeping their inner peace. you heard that right: they have mastered the art. finding inner peace is not enough. the topping is keeping it. advertising look at it as a messy room – our minds can rightly be likened to a room. you eat, sleep and work in that room and with all the activities going on, you barely have time to clean it up. you keep postponing clean up time until one day you decide to do it. it feels like a brand new house. the next day, you go back to eating and throwing trash in the same place and one week later, you are back to square one. cleaning is an art and so is the concept of inner peace. it is something you learn and re-learn all the days of your life. the day you stop the practice, your mind begins to go back to being occupied with unnecessary stuff that makes it very unattractive. when your peace or happiness is threatened, the first thing that comes to mind is “find a quick fix.” sadly, this quick fix doesn’t even lead you to talk it out with people who could help but instead, you take to netflix, ice cream, binge-eating, and binge-watching or drinking all night. by morning, you get sober and the feeling of sadness and emptiness dawns on you again but this time, heavier… this keeps you moving in the same cycle; hence the increasing number of health-related cases globally. one thing we fail to realize at that moment is that all those solutions are fleeting and that is the distinguishing factor between all of them and inner peace. inner peace is not a quick fix. it takes years of mind-conditioning but the results are always glaring and cannot be ignored. why is inner peace important? inner peace is important for the following reasons: you begin to see and appreciate all the little things you never thought were important like the ability to walk, eat, breathe, having a roof over your head and even the sun that never fails to rise. it teaches you to be patient because, at the end of the day, we’d all be on the same day. nobody has ever hurried into the next day. you learn how to maximize every single moment knowing fully well that we would all leave this world someday. it teaches you to take things one step at a time. we all tell ourselves that phrase especially when we find ourselves in a mess but we never really actualize it until we find inner peace. you would begin to see drastic changes in your health and wellness. food and alcohol are no longer an escape route because you realize that there is really no escape from this life. your relationships and friendships take a positive turn because you have learned to appreciate every moment you have with the ones you love. as your health improves, you will also notice that you stop aging so fast. in other words, peace of mind is an anti-aging factor. you steadily gain control over aspects of life that you can control. habits and lifestyles are some of the things you can control and the realization of inner peace help you handle those aspects well. you feel more confident to take on challenges and tasks you would ordinarily shy away from. you would be able to handle losses and other unfortunate events gracefully and not pretending to be handling them well. how to find your inner peace and happiness like many other concepts, there is no one-size-fits-all when it comes to finding inner peace. however, all of the points provided here would prove effective in your journey to finding it. use these steps to find inner peace: advertising 1. declutter your “room” as mentioned earlier, your mind can be likened to a room. when that room is occupied with thoughts of “what if” and “how not” plus work issues and family matters, there is no way you’d have enough space to do other things. this would take lots of practice and patience with oneself because you can’t just tell yourself, “hey, stop thinking” and boom! you just stop. you have to consciously remind yourself to not overthink things and only take what you can handle. even the bravest people break down, so take some time to clear your mind of unimportant matters. you need that space. 2. take responsibility for your actions it takes a whole level of maturity to take responsibility for your actions, especially when it’s something you’re not proud of but to find your inner peace, you have to accept your faults and all. 3. accept the fact that you are human alongside taking responsibility for your actions, realize that you do not have control over everything. you’re human and there’s only so much you can do about anything. when you finally come to terms with this, you would stop blaming yourself for stuff that you did not cause and could not prevent. 4. your issues don’t define you when facing a long term illness or disability or going through a series of tragic experiences, many are tempted to look at themselves through the eyes of their experiences (which is no surprise when others do the same). you are not your issues. yes, you may have anemia or have lost someone but that is only a minute part of your life. it doesn’t entail your whole life and it certainly doesn’t describe you. constantly remind yourself of this and watch people change their perception about you as well. advertising 5. set boundaries for yourself we all like to be free and do whatever it is that we dream of, so boundaries may sometimes look like our enemies but they aren’t. instead, boundaries help us stay in check and be in charge. therefore, the sooner you start setting boundaries, the better. some of the boundaries you should set include social media time, talk time, tv time and work time. 6. take a break if you struggle to take breaks, then you are the one person who needs it the most. even phones and laptops begin to overheat and lag when they are used for long periods at a stretch. it’s okay to put your life on hold for the world. go on a vacation. travel the world. visit a park. 7. be early this may not sound like an “inner peace hack” (because there’s no hack to this thing) but it does help with keeping your inner peace. have you noticed how confused and disorganized you get when you’re running late for an event? you just get tensed and worked up trying to figure out things if any goes wrong. so, when you have to be at an event try to get there at least fifteen minutes before the time. you would notice how calm you’d be even if anything goes wrong because there would be a few minutes to sort it out. final thoughts once again, there is no one-size-fits-all when it comes to finding your inner peace, so these steps may not be exactly what you expect. the good news, though, is that these steps provide the basic foundation you need to find it. as you work on these, you will begin to find out other things you need to start or get rid of to hit that climax of inner peace and lasting happiness. more to calm your mind 40 ways to find peace of mind and inner calm how to calm down when you’re stressed and anxious meditation can change your life: the power of mindfulness featured photo credit: fabrizio verrecchia via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ wikipedia: inner peace share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next meditation can change your life: the power of mindfulness the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void advertising advertising more by this author jacqueline t. hill writing, blogging, and educating to guide others into happiness how to find inner peace and lasting happiness how to develop different perspectives on life why am i so emotional? 9 hidden reasons how to learn to be alone and happy about it what is self-worth and how to recognize yours advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author jacqueline t. hill writing, blogging, and educating to guide others into happiness how to find inner peace and lasting happiness how to develop different perspectives on life why am i so emotional? 9 hidden reasons how to learn to be alone and happy about it what is self-worth and how to recognize yours trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) overcome fear and anxiety with these 4 mindset shifts you are not your thoughts: 10 ways to get rid of unhealthy thoughts how self doubt keeps you stuck (and how to overcome it) advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.