home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » beach » how to add molding panels to a flat door how to add molding panels to a flat door january 22, 2014 brittany bailey 108 comments 66.6kshares facebook twitter pinterest when my sister brought me on to the topsail beach condo renovation, she had a laundry list of diy projects she wanted me to complete. one of them was dressing up the hollow flat doors with moulding panels. she showed me a pin that led to one life to love’s diy beadboard panel doors. after seeing the photo, i knew it would be a great diy upgrade to make. but, we decided to use real beadboard (instead of beadboard wallpaper) because it had to hold up to the stress of being a rental. to begin: start by measuring and marking the doors to determine the size of your panels. draw lines 5″ in from the top and two sides of your door. draw the bottom line 6″ up from the bottom. finally, leave 5″ between the top and bottom panels. when marking your doors, use a pencil and level to draw your lines. after we had our panel measurements, caitlin and i headed to lowe’s. but, she refused to push me in the cart (party pooper!) we pulled some 4′ x 8′ beadboard panels and took them to the lumber cutting area. we gave the lowe’s employer our measurements and asked him to cut the boards for us. while he cut our beadboard, caitlin and i gathered the rest of our supplies. materials: beadboard panels moulding to frame panels tape measure pencil level construction glue latex paintable caulk finish nailer 1 1/4″ finish nails painter’s tape hand saw miter box eye protection hearing protection plastic wood putty putty knife sanding block instructions: assess the condition of your door. if there are chips or dings, you need to fix them before proceeding. apply wood putty and allow it to dry. after dry, sand the putty smooth. time to apply the beadboard panels. squeeze construction glue onto the back of the beadboard panels. set the panels on the door and double check the level and plumb of the panel. press the panel firmly to spread the glue. use the finish nailer to secure the panel around the perimeter. attach the lower panel next. to trim the panel, measure and cut your trim molding to fit around the panel. set your top piece in place and secure it with the finish nailer. set the side pieces in place. use painter’s tape to hold the corners tightly. use more tape to secure the side piece if necessary. attach the side molding with finish nails. attach the opposite side and the bottom molding pieces. putty the nail holes and caulk the seams. then prime and paint the doors. ooolala. how about that transformation?! the newly paneled doors make a huge difference in the look of the condo. it’s all in the details. like what you see? take the tour of the entire topsail beach condo renovation for more upgrade ideas. 66.6kshares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: beach, before and after, build it, creating moulding, door, door hardware, moulding, popular, renew, renovation, trash to treasure, tutorial, upcycling, wood putty comments jyn says january 30, 2018 at 4:36 pm great job on the door-looks great! we’re looking to upgrade our plain, rough looking 1950’s hollow core doors as well. we painted a few, but they seemed to swell and scratch off the paint on the edge that closes. any tips to avoid this? reply val says february 15, 2018 at 12:24 pm this looks amazing! can i ask what paint you used for the door? reply eve d. says march 4, 2018 at 6:06 pm thanks for the inspiration on this! i tried the same thing on my doors, minus the beadboard (just because i didn’t think it matched the era of my house). the results are fantastic — so much better than i expected! i’m just finishing up the last of five doors and it makes such an amazing difference in my hallway. it has been a lot of work, but so worth it! reply krystal says april 1, 2018 at 9:10 pm what did you do in place of bead board? reply tina pugh says march 17, 2018 at 6:14 pm hi, awesome tutorial. are the measurement the same for bathroom doors and closet doors? thank you reply brittany bailey says march 18, 2018 at 8:47 pm i think you need to visually judge that for yourself. it depends on the width of your closet doors, but bathroom doors should be fine at the same. reply shelly says march 29, 2018 at 11:03 am what kind of paint did you use? reply erin says june 9, 2018 at 9:26 am hi, do you do this on both sides or just the side that people see from outside the space? thank you reply brittany bailey says june 11, 2018 at 7:41 am we only did it on the side that faces the living areas. but, you can do both if you like. reply handy squad says november 21, 2018 at 5:57 am looks fantastic brittany! an easy step-by-step guide! keep up the good work! reply thomas gillhouse says january 14, 2019 at 9:34 am exactly what type of trim did you use? haven’t seemed to find any in the big box stores. reply brittany bailey says january 16, 2019 at 6:48 pm i’m not sure of the names, and i know trim moulding varies based on area. i’d recommend pulling a bunch of small trim to see if any work for your doors. reply joan salonish says november 22, 2019 at 10:55 am my husband also, he would have a house full of wood if i let him. wood everything!! yuck!! reply ind says january 2, 2020 at 11:22 am did you do the flooring as well? reply brittany bailey says january 9, 2020 at 12:30 pm no, i didn’t. reply read more comments: « 1 … 3 4 5 leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok