community help center report a problem help center community report a problem sign in how can we help? khan academy help center common questions & resources khan academy india how can khan academy be used in india for remote learning during school closures? updated march 21, 2020 16:01 follow hello parents and teachers, with concerns growing over the coronavirus (covid-19), we know many of you are making plans to keep learning going should your school need to close. as parents and teachers ourselves, we know there’s a lot on your minds, from health and safety to child care and jobs. we want to do everything we can to support you. we are a nonprofit organization with free educational resources. we are having daily (weekdays) 9 am pst/12 est/9.30 pm ist live streams on facebook, youtube, and twitter for students, parents, and teachers navigating school closures. india specific content can also be found on youtube-india (english) and youtube-india (hinglish). here are guides we’ve created for you: parents daily schedules for students ages 4-18 to keep learning using khan academy during school closures parent quick start guide parents: frequently asked questions about supporting your child’s learning during school closures a free webinar for parents is taking place wednesday, march 18, at 8:00 pm et / 5:00 pm pt/5.30 am ist. recordings will be available for those who can not attend. teachers get a free teacher account set-up your classroom for remote learning with our quick start guide and video ask your questions to expert khan academy teachers during office hours: tuesday, march 24 (3 pm et | 12 pm pt | mar 25, 12:30 am ist) wednesday, march 25 (4 pm et | 1 pm pt | mar 26, 1:30 am ist) friday, march 27 (3:30 pm et | 12:30 pm pt | mar 28, 1:00 am ist) join an upcoming webinar to get support with the biggest challenges you’re facing: learn how to engage and motivate your students - even when they’re remote! (monday, march 23 | 1 pm et / 10 am pt / 10:30 pm ist) explore how mastery learning can fill student gaps and drive massive results (thursday, march 26 | 7 pm et / 4 pm pt/ march 27, 4:30 am ist) catch-up with some of our best recent professional learning sessions: how one teacher helped his students ace math… by taking them back to kindergarten! 7 tips for effective remote learning — from setting up a schedule to addressing the emotional impact khan academy is a free resource for students, teachers, and parents. what is khan academy? we offer exercises, quizzes, and tests so students can practice and master skills, as well as instructional videos to help students learn or review material. khan academy has a library of indian curriculum-aligned lessons covering through grade 1-12 math to early college math, grammar, science, computing, and more. students can practice skills with exercises, quizzes, and mastery challenges and get immediate feedback and support. khan academy is available in 40 languages including hindi, kannada, gujarati and many more. students without laptops can access the khan academy website or use the khan academy app on smartphones. teachers get tools and reports designed specifically for them. teachers can easily assign students an entire course - 10th grade physics or 10th grade math, for example—a specific unit, or a specific skill. teachers can easily track student progress with our reports. school and teacher resources: how can you use khan academy? we have several resources including a step-by-step welcome guide and a series of online videos featuring real teachers demonstrating how to use khan academy to assign instructional videos and practice skills and monitor student progress. all these resources are available at teacher essentials. teachers can also join our #teachwithkhan facebook group. how to get started: create free accounts from our home page. take a tour of our free content. check out our teacher and parent resources, and learn how you can easily assign students a course to master. more questions? visit our help center. khan academy kids for early learners if you have a child ages two to seven, we recommend our free app, khan academy kids. in addition to building early literacy, reading, writing, language, and math skills, the app encourages creativity and builds social-emotional skills. it is 100% free, with no ads and no in-app purchases. khan academy kids is available on itunes, google play, and the amazon app store. khan academy is a nonprofit organization. our mission is to provide a free, world-class education to anyone, anywhere. we are closely monitoring the impact of covid-19, and are here to assist communities with their learning needs. check back with us in the coming days and weeks as we are updating our resources for you. sincerely, the khan academy team was this article helpful? 308 out of 355 found this helpful follow ask the community get khan academy tips, tricks, and help from your fellow community members visit our community our mission is to provide a free, world-class education to anyone, anywhere. khan academy is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. donate or volunteer today! language english (us) български español français português do brasil about news impact our team our content specialists our leadership our supporters careers internships contact help center support community share your story press download our apps ios app android app courses math by course math by grade science & engineering computing arts & humanities economics & finance test prep college, careers, & more about news impact our team our content specialists our leadership our supporters careers internships contact help center support community share your story press download our apps ios app android app courses math by course math by grade science & engineering computing arts & humanities economics & finance test prep college, careers, & more © 2018 khan academy terms of use privacy notice