start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising lifestyle advertising last updated on march 12, 2020 how to overcome fear and realize your potential (the ultimate guide) ashley elizabeth psychologist and motivational speaker read full profile share pin it tweet share email take a moment and imagine what your life would be like if you had no fear… what would you do? i believe that fear is the single biggest obstacle that holds people back from fulfilling their potential and becoming the best version of themselves. fear doesn’t feel good, but it’s a basic human condition. we all have fears, myself included. you aren’t alone… fear of failure, fear of abandonment, fear of success, fear of not being good enough… the question is…where does it come from? us. neuroscientists claim that humans are the most fearful creatures on the planet because of our ability to learn, think, and create fear in our minds.[1] we scare ourselves by imagining the worst possible outcomes, assuming that we are protecting ourselves from imminent danger. think back to a time where you were so fearful of doing something, but once you did it you were like, “that wasn’t so bad. why did i spend so long worrying about?!” you make the choice to be a victim of your fears or to push them aside and choose to be courageous. in this article, we’ll look into the root cause of fear and how we can overcome it to realize our biggest potential. table of contents what is fear, really? how to overcome fear and realize your potential final thoughts more tips for conquering fear what is fear, really? this acronym best reflects what fear is: advertising false evidence appearing real fear is an emotion, and as such, is not a physical thing. therefore, fear is not real. rather, it is just an illusion that is created by your mind. these imagined scenarios of perceived threat end up feeding your fear to the point where it becomes all-consuming. here’s the kicker… oftentimes, these scenarios never happen. in the words of stephanie melish, “fear is an idea crippling, experience-crushing, success-stalling inhibitor inflicted only by yourself.” we create the scenario that feeds the fear. we let it control us, and the imagined scenarios we draw up in our minds never actually take place. it never happens. the real issue is not the fear itself, but rather how we hold it in our minds. how to overcome fear and realize your potential overcoming fear may sound easier said than done. when you are in the thick of fear, it’s hard to see a way out. the good news is that, because you are the root cause of your fears, that means that you are also the solution to them. however, none of this will be possible if you aren’t ready to face your fears. 1. identify your fears through writing there are times when i’ve felt afraid, but i didn’t even know why. if you keep your fears inside, you allow your minds to control how you feel. we all know how that turns out! in order to prevent this confusion from happening in the first place, the first step is to identify what your fears are. what makes you feel afraid? instead of just thinking about these things, write them down. when you write down your fears on paper and actually question them, it forces you to analyze why you are afraid. questions are designed to trigger your fears and bring them to the surface. advertising is this going to be a comfortable process? absolutely not. deep inner work never is! however, if you continue to keep your feelings in the dark, the scarier they will be, and the more disempowered you will become. once you identify the experience that you associate with your fears, you become armed with the power to take action to change them. eventually, your fears become smaller and smaller, and your strength, bigger and bigger. 2. practice gratitude from personal experience, i have learned that you cannot experience fear and gratitude at the same time. they are literally on opposite ends of the continuum of the human experience. when you are experiencing difficult times in life, it’s easy to drop into fear. everything feels overwhelming. in that energetic space, it can be hard to stay grounded. developing a gratitude practice allows you to not drown in fear. it doesn’t mean that you won’t still feel it, but the blow will be lessened, thereby allowing you to see the brighter side of struggle (yes, this does exist). in positive psychology research, gratitude is strongly and consistently associated with greater happiness. gratitude helps people feel more positive emotions, relish good experiences, improve their health, deal with adversity, and build strong relationships.[2] any of you who experience fear know that there is almost always a story attached to whatever it is that you’re fearful of. regardless of what that story is, the running theme is, “i can’t do something.” fear loves to hang out with your inner critic and come up with worst-case scenarios about what could happen. i have found that gratitude helps keep these limiting stories at bay. when you practice gratitude, your brain shifts to what is currently working instead of what isn’t working. the act of being fearful is a future-oriented process, while gratitude is a present-oriented one. the next time that fear tries to creep its way into your head, replace that disempowering thought with an empowering one. it sounds easier said than done, but it works. 3. release control are you a control freak? if so, you’re not alone. this is how a lot of people manage their fears, or so they think. advertising in actuality, all that they are doing is masking their fears by trying to control everything. if you can relate, it’s time to release control. trust me when i say that this is a losing battle. fear results in controlling behavior and when this behavior doesn’t give us the results we’re seeking (which is usually the case), it further intensifies our fears. in your attempt to control fear, you actually become a victim of it. this fear and control cycle leaves a lot of people feeling defeated. the reality is that there will always be things that are far beyond your control. that’s just how life works. the only way that we can move past needing to be in control is to accept that it is not always up to us. while you may be in control of your decisions, you don’t always have control over situations that you are pushed into, nor can you control how others react. the only thing that you have control over is your inner world and how you choose to respond to your external environment. the next time that you catch yourself trying to control everything, step back and ask yourself what you are afraid of. start to get curious about what thoughts are generating your fear. curiosity and fear cannot co-exist. once you let go of one, you invite the other in. true freedom comes from fully releasing control. when you are able to do this, you being the process of releasing your fears as well. 4. recite positive affirmations positive affirmations can be used to combat almost any negative thought pattern. using them to help challenge your fears can help re-train your brain and have your fears reframed as powerful statements. research shows that you can actually train your subconscious mind such that it will help you to attract exactly what you desire in life.[3] instead of saying “i am afraid of doing this because i might fail,” look in the mirror and say to yourself, “i have prepared for this. i am ready. i will not fail.” the more you use positive affirmations, the stronger they become. the best way to cancel a negative belief is to develop its positive counterpart. commit to making positive affirmations a key component of your morning ritual. by reciting them out loud it’s your way of saying to the universe, “this is what i want.” it literally takes one thought, repeated over and over again, to set you on the path to transforming your entire life. here’re more positive affirmations you should try: 10 positive affirmations for success that will change your life advertising 5. do one thing every day that scares you living in your comfort zone will get you nowhere in life. in my experience, not doing the things that scare you will only increase the likelihood that your fears will grow and inevitably, take over every decision that you make in life. is it really better go get out of your comfort zone? the answer is always yes. i want to encourage you to do one thing every day that scares you. it can be something small. all that matters is that you take action. make it a habit to get comfortable being uncomfortable. nobody likes to do this, but if you want to achieve success, you’ve got to be willing to try. putting yourself in new and uncomfortable situations triggers a unique part of the brain that releases dopamine, nature’s make-you-happy chemical. here’s the mind-blower: that unique region of the brain is only activated when you see or experience completely new things.[4] when you condition yourself to do something every day that scares you, your fear fades away and your courage grows stronger. think about it…when you face your fears, how can you fear them again? soon enough, your confidence will skyrocket. final thoughts the next time that you feel threatened by fear, i encourage you to pull upon one or more of the above strategies. change your relationship with fear. instead of letting it knock you down, use it as motivation to grow and achieve more. once you recognize that fear is not real, the obstacles that appear to stand in your way will be removed, and you will feel empowered to take massive action. fear has two meanings – forget everything and run or face everything and rise. the choice is yours. the face of the matter is that there is nothing or nobody standing in your way of greatness. your potential in life is limited by only one factor – you. are you ready to transform fear into action? more tips for conquering fear is it really better to step out of your comfort zone? how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) 13 tips to face your fears, grow with them and enjoy the ride how to conquer your fear of change and transform your life featured photo credit: jonathan klok via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ smashing the brain blocks: 7 things you need to know about fear [2] ^ harvard medical school: giving thanks can make you happier [3] ^ great performers: how to reprogram your subconscious mind for success and happiness [4] ^ forbes: why feeling uncomfortable is the key to success share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong is it really better to step out of your comfort zone? 10 positive affirmations for success that will change your life advertising advertising more by this author ashley elizabeth psychologist and motivational speaker what is resilience and why is it important? 13 simple habits to cultivate self-compassion how to overcome fear and realize your potential (the ultimate guide) 5 powerful tips for overcoming adversity how to find yourself when you’re lost in life advertising trending in lifestyle 1 how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life 2 15 brain foods that will super boost your brain power 3 13 essential self-care tips for busy people 4 how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) 5 7 comics about periods that only women would understand more by this author ashley elizabeth psychologist and motivational speaker what is resilience and why is it important? 13 simple habits to cultivate self-compassion how to overcome fear and realize your potential (the ultimate guide) 5 powerful tips for overcoming adversity how to find yourself when you’re lost in life trending in lifestyle 1 how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life 2 15 brain foods that will super boost your brain power 3 13 essential self-care tips for busy people 4 how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) 5 7 comics about periods that only women would understand read next do you have fear of abandonment? (signs and ways to overcome it) is your controlling behaviour masking your fear? how to control anxiety and calm your anxious thoughts 10 benefits of reading: why you should read every day advertising advertising lifestyle health advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life leanne louie leanne is a passionate writer who shares lifestyle tips on lifehack. read full profile share pin it tweet share email when it comes to living long, genes aren’t everything. research has revealed a number of simple lifestyle changes you can make that could help to extend your life, and some of them may surprise you. so, how to live longer? here are 21 ways to help you live a long life 1. exercise it’s no secret that physical activity is good for you. exercise helps you maintain a healthy body weight and lowers your blood pressure, both of which contribute to heart health and a reduced risk of heart disease–the top worldwide cause of death. 2. drink in moderation i know you’re probably picturing a glass of red wine right now, but recent research suggests that indulging in one to three glasses of any type of alcohol every day may help to increase longevity.[1] studies have found that heavy drinkers as well as abstainers seem to have a higher risk of early mortality than moderate drinkers. 3. reduce stress in your life stress causes your body to release a hormone called cortisol. at high levels, this hormone can increase blood pressure and cause storage of abdominal fat, both of which can lead to an increased risk of heart disease. 4. watch less television a 2008 study found that people who watch six hours of television per day will likely die an average of 4.8 years earlier than those who don’t.[2] it also found that, after the age of 25, every hour of television watched decreases life expectancy by 22 minutes. advertising television promotes inactivity and disengagement from the world, both of which can shorten your lifespan. 5. eat less red meat red meat consumption is linked to an increased risk of heart disease and cancer.[3] swapping out your steaks for healthy proteins, like fish, may help to increase longevity. if you can’t stand the idea of a steak-free life, reducing your consumption to less than two to three servings a week can still incur health benefits. 6. don’t smoke this isn’t exactly a revelation. as you probably well know, smoking significantly increases your risk of cancer. 7. socialize studies suggest that having social relationships promotes longevity.[4] although scientists are unsure of the reasons behind this, they speculate that socializing leads to increased self esteem as well as peer pressure to maintain health. 8. eat foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids omega-3 fatty acids decrease the risk of heart disease[5] and perhaps even alzheimer’s disease.[6] salmon and walnuts are two of the best sources of omega-3s. advertising 9. be optimistic studies suggest that optimists are at a lower risk for heart disease and, generally, live longer than pessimists.[7] researchers speculate that optimists have a healthier approach to life in general–exercising more, socializing, and actively seeking out medical advice. thus, their risk of early mortality is lower. 10. own a pet having a furry-friend leads to decreased stress, increased immunity, and a lessened risk of heart disease.[8] depending on the type of pet, they can also motivate you to be more active. 11. drink coffee studies have found a link between coffee consumption and longer life.[9] although the reasons for this aren’t entirely clear, coffee’s high levels of antioxidants may play a role. remember, though, drowning your cup of joe in sugar and whipped cream could counter whatever health benefits it may hold. 12. eat less japan has the longest average lifespan in the world, and the longest lived of the japanese–the natives of the ryukyu islands–stop eating when they’re 80% full. limiting your calorie intake means lower overall stress on the body. 13. meditate meditation leads to stress reduction and lowered blood pressure.[10] research suggests that it could also increase the activity of an enzyme associated with longevity.[11] taking as little as 15 minutes a day to find your zen can have significant health benefits, and may even extend your life. advertising how to meditate? here’re 8 meditation techniques for complete beginners 14. maintain a healthy weight being overweight puts stress on your cardiovascular system, increasing your risk of heart disease.[12] it may also increase the risk of cancer.[13] maintaining a healthy weight is important for heart health and living a long and healthy life. 15. laugh often laughter reduces the levels of stress hormones, like cortisol, in your body. high levels of these hormones can weaken your immune system. 16. don’t spend too much time in the sun too much time in the sun can lead to an increased risk of skin cancer. however, sun exposure is an excellent way to increase levels of vitamin d, so soaking up a few rays–perhaps for around 15 minutes a day–can be healthy. the key is moderation. 17. cook your own food when you eat at restaurants, you surrender control over your diet. even salads tend to have a large number of additives, from sugar to saturated fats. eating at home will enable you to monitor your food intake and ensure a healthy diet. take a look at these 14 healthy easy recipes for people on the go and start to cook your own food. advertising 18. eat mushrooms mushrooms are a central ingredient in dr. joel fuhrman’s gombs disease fighting diet. they boost the immune system and may even reduce the risk of cancer.[14] 19. floss flossing helps to stave off gum disease, which is linked to an increased risk of cancer.[15] 20. eat foods rich in antioxidants antioxidants fight against the harmful effects of free-radicals, toxins which can cause cell damage and an increased risk of disease when they accumulate in the body. berries, green tea and broccoli are three excellent sources of antioxidants. find out more antiosidants-rich foods here: 13 delicious antioxidant foods that are great for your health 21. have sex getting down and dirty two to three times a week can have significant health benefits. sex burns calories, decreases stress, improves sleep, and may even protect against heart disease.[16] it’s an easy and effective way to get exercise–so love long and prosper! more health tips powerful daily routine examples for a healthy and high-achieving you make these 17 health goals into daily habits for better overall wellness how to work towards a healthy life balance featured photo credit: sweethearts/patrick via flickr.com reference [1] ^ wiley online library: late‐life alcohol consumption and 20‐year mortality [2] ^ bmj journals: television viewing time and reduced life expectancy: a life table analysis [3] ^ arch intern med.: red meat consumption and mortality [4] ^ plos medicine: social relationships and mortality risk: a meta-analytic review [5] ^ jama: fish and omega-3 fatty acid intake and risk of coronary heart disease in women [6] ^ ncbi: effects of omega‐3 fatty acids on cognitive function with aging, dementia, and neurological diseases: summary [7] ^ mayo clinic proc: prediction of all-cause mortality by the minnesota multiphasic personality inventory optimism-pessimism scale scores: study of a college sample during a 40-year follow-up period. [8] ^ med hypotheses.: pet ownership protects against the risks and consequences of coronary heart disease. [9] ^ the new england journal of medicine: association of coffee drinking with total and cause-specific mortality [10] ^ american journal of hypertension: blood pressure response to transcendental meditation: a meta-analysis [11] ^ science direct: intensive meditation training, immune cell telomerase activity, and psychological mediators [12] ^ jama: the disease burden associated with overweight and obesity [13] ^ jama: the disease burden associated with overweight and obesity [14] ^ african journal of biotechnology: anti-cancer effect of polysaccharides isolated from higher basidiomycetes mushrooms [15] ^ science direct: periodontal disease, tooth loss, and cancer risk in male health professionals: a prospective cohort study [16] ^ aha journals: sexual activity and cardiovascular disease share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to work towards a healthy life balance powerful daily routine examples for a healthy and high-achieving you 14 healthy easy recipes for people on the go advertising advertising more by this author leanne louie leanne is a passionate writer who shares lifestyle tips on lifehack. how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life 5 life lessons from game of thrones 12 ways to live more in the moment 10 brain boosting foods you should be eating 7 habits of highly effective hobbits advertising trending in lifestyle 1 how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life 2 15 brain foods that will super boost your brain power 3 13 essential self-care tips for busy people 4 how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) 5 7 comics about periods that only women would understand read next how do you meditate? 8 meditation techniques for complete beginners make these 17 health goals into daily habits for better overall wellness 8 surprising benefits of salmon (with recipe) how to control anxiety and calm your anxious thoughts about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.