home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) fiction how to write a novel market your writing by verity bright editor’s note: this is a guest post on landing a book deal by first time fiction author, verity bright who had three publishers offering to publish her first novel, a very english murder. even if you’ve yet to write a word, verity shows you how to turn this to your advantage and go get that deal! maybe you’re staring at a blank screen? – or piece of paper, if you’re old school? 🙂 and you’re wondering… is it worth it? even if you manage to start, let alone finish, your first novel, what’s the chance of landing a book deal? of getting the thing published? well, pretty good actually. before we go any further and i qualify that statement, i’m discussing landing a book deal here, not self-publishing, that’s a whole different animal and outside the scope of this article. so if you’re reading this, i’m assume you’ve done your research and decided you want a book deal? good, then let’s proceed… so, not only is your chance of getting a book deal pretty good, it actually increases the less you’ve written. here’s why… the ‘traditional ‘ way of writing a novel is to hide in a darkened room, away from the outside world, and wait for creative genius to strike. okay, i may be exaggerating, but there’s plenty of first time writers doing pretty much that. and there’s nothing wrong with it. it just won’t get you a book deal. unless your lucky. or an actual literary genius. and even then, you’re still talking lottery-type odds. the good news is, many of the great writers of the past did nothing of the sort. in fact they did pretty much the opposite. they went out into the world and embraced it. which will double your chance of landing a book deal before you’ve written a single word. now, this is normally where you might start to hear advice such as ‘write to market’, and not surprisingly i’m going to do the same, because that’s pretty much what shakespeare, chandler and dickens did, to name a few. however, i do have a caveat, and one that will sweeten the pill. for those who don’t know, ‘write to market’ simply means find out what a bunch of people are reading and write that. for the author, a ‘market’ is basically ‘an audience’. there is one increasingly essential part of that, however, that few people talk about and i’ll come back to in a moment. first of all the caveat to the advice ‘write to the market’. the reason i said earlier that your chances of landing a book deal increase the less you’ve written of your first novel is because you can go out and research your market and write for them from line one. if you’ve already started your book, or even finished it, you can still do this to some extent. you see, there are so many ‘markets’ out there, one of them probably fits your book already. sure, you might have to tweak it a little, but do you think shakespeare didn’t tweak his plays for his market, or audience? which means you can still write what you want, you just need to write it in a form your audience already recognise, and read. chandler did just that. he wrote books that are in may ways literary works, but he wrote them in a particular ‘genre’. a genre that was already popular with a given market, crime readers. to recap, you can double your chances of landing a book deal not by selling your soul and writing stuff you hate, but by working out what market, or audience is already reading the stuff you want to write, and then putting it in a form they already recognise. just like chandler. and the sooner you identify what genre your audience are reading that you can fit your work into, the sooner you increase your chance of landing that book deal. the last slither of the equation is that ‘increasingly essential’ part of writing for a market i said no one really talks about. this is how your market get your work: paperback/hardback ebook audiobook there are other formats, but these are the main ones. now, some people think this is quite a modern development, but in fact it’s not. charles dickens had exactly the same challenge. his audience were use to getting their reading in serial form through a magazine which is how many of his famous books were first published. so, another quick recap: work out what genre you like writing in, or if you’re already writing, what genre your work would fit into. for shakespeare it was plays. research everything about that genre, remembering people like chandler managed to write ‘genre’ and ‘literary’ fiction at the same time, so you can still write what you enjoy. find out what format, or medium, your market get their reading matter in, just as dickens did. if you think i’m exaggerating how important this last step is, i was turned down by one publisher because the genre i’d chosen was selling badly in traditional paperback and hardback, their main markets, and taken on by another publisher because the genre i’d chosen was selling well in their main market, ebooks. if you’ve done the three steps above you can now start writing and when you’ve done, rather than randomly send your novel out to any agent or publisher you can find, you can send it to agents or publishers who: publish works in the genre you write in market those works in the format your audience get their reading material in so, does this work in the real world? absolutely. i did these exact steps before i wrote a word. i then targeted only publishers who were already successfully selling books in the genre i was writing in, and the format the majority of the readers of that genre got their reading material in.the result? i had three publishers come back to me and i signed a three book deal with the publisher i wanted, rather than the publisher i could get. my first book, a very english murder, is currently on pre-release and i am so excited! but this article isn’t about me. it’s about you. if a first time author who had never written a fiction book before, let alone one in a very competitive genre, can land a book deal, so can you. and just imagine… next time you’re staring at that blank screen (or paper) how different would it feel to know you’ve already doubled your chance of landing a deal before you’ve written a word? readers need writers. publishers need writers. writer’s like you. go get that deal! tweet pin share related posts word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary about the author verity bright if you'd like to support a first time author, and get a cracking good read into the bargain, you can pre-order verity's book here: a very english murder . ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera market your writing qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >