start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising money smartcut advertising how to make money with a blog (according to 23 successful bloggers) christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast read full profile share pin it tweet share email not too long ago, you believed that making money with a blog was impossible. but after seeing dozens of income reports from other bloggers, you became hooked. now you’re left wondering if you could achieve similar results. in this article, i’ll consolidate the lessons learned from some successful bloggers and get you the advice on how to make money with a blog. table of contents how to monetize your blog the right way how to make money with a blog: lessons learned from 23 successful bloggers start your blog and achieve jaw-dropping results how to monetize your blog the right way a blog is more than a website with words, it’s a brand that solves a problem. when you’re first starting off it’s difficult to make any money. why? because no one trusts your brand. the solution is simple, provide engaging content to build a large audience. once your blog’s traffic and subscribers have grown, here are the most effective ways you can monetize your blog. affiliate marketing[1] selling courses[2] coaching[3] “get rich quick” schemes rarely work some believe that bloggers had their success handed to them, but this is far from the truth. their success required sacrifice, discipline and courage to work. and this is where most people run into trouble because they’re unwilling to put in the work. your first step to building income through your blog is to stop believing it will be easy to achieve. the trick is to only listen to a few bloggers who are at the position you’d like to be and take massive action. it can take months or even years before you start earning income. and when the going gets tough, keep going. don’t stop. learn to love the journey more than the outcome and you’ll build a profitable blog. executing the right advice leads to success you need to learn from bloggers with diverse backgrounds. what motivates someone to build an online business may not inspire you. but there’re strategies some bloggers will share that you’ll resonate with. so what’s the next step? to start taking action. how to make money with a blog: lessons learned from 23 successful bloggers browse the list of some of the most influential and down to earth bloggers in today’s time. chances are that you’ll resonate with a few of them. take their practical lessons and apply them to your blog. these bloggers may spark light bulb moments for you and change your life forever. 1. gary vaynerchuck – down to earth entrepreneur who’ll transform your life gary is a proud “d” student who helped his dad grow his wine liquor store into a 60 million business. he left the wine business to start his own digital agency, which now generates over $100 million. today, he inspires entrepreneurs of all ages through his blog, vlog, and podcast to take full control of their lives doing what they love. lesson: have the patience to build a successful business. 2. pat flynn – online jedi who’s fearless to try new ideas pat built several sites, is an author of many books and has launched many podcasts. his blog is one of the most popular sites on the web for beginner and experienced entrepreneurs. despite pat’s success, he’s still humble and willing to help others. lesson: don’t let fear stop you from stepping out of your comfort zone. advertising 3. john lee dumas – entrepreneur on fire, inspiring others through his voice john is the host of eofire, an award-winning business podcast, interviewing top entrepreneurs. he’s interviewed successful entrepreneurs such as gary vaynerchuk, tony robbins and many more. john is also the author of the #1 ranked book for podcasting in amazon. he’s an excellent example of what happens when you chase your dreams and remain committed. lesson: follow one course until success (focus). 4. j money – rockstar money expert who injects “cool” into finance j money is an award-winning personal finance blogger, company advisor and money rockstar. he injects a “fun” personality in his blog, adding a sense of “coolness” to personal finance. he’s the founder of rockstarfinance, a personal finance directory filled with useful resources. the fresh perspectives j shares about money will leave you pondering for days. lesson: have fun with your blog to stand out and create engaging content. 5. mr. money mustache – badass blogger who’ll transform your financial lifestyle mr.mm’s goal is to help you live a “badass” life. he has unique money saving ideas up his sleeve, such as cutting your grocery bill in half, and diy solar panels. there are no “generic” articles in his blog, only thorough and well-thought ideas. mr.mm is financially independent and willing to share his secrets if you dare to listen. lesson: focus on your needs and wants to live your dream lifestyle. 6. sam – thoughtful blogger sharing smart insights sam is a blogger and a real estate investor. his blog has received millions of views and featured in forbes, lifehacker, cnbc, and many more. sam dives deep into topics like real estate, retirement planning, and career strategies. read his blog and discover why it’s “bookmark-worthy”. lesson: keep investing in yourself to be better prepared for the future. 7. joshua dorkin – the persistent entrepreneur who never lost hope joshua is a well-known entrepreneur and speaker who’s featured in major publications. he’s built the nation’s largest real estate investing blog and co-host of the biggerpockets podcast. he’s the ultimate example of what’s attainable when you pursue your dreams. his blog is one of the only few you’ll need to reach financial independence with real estate. lesson: keep working towards your goal despite who tries to stop you. 8. ramit sethi – that “cool” teacher who’ll help you reach your next level ramit is a new york times bestselling author. he prides himself on being different, which is why he loves giving away 98% of his material for free. his content is binge-worthy and will bring out the awesome out of you. advertising if you’re ready to master your inner psychology or finance, then stop by ramit’s blog. lesson: there’s always a way to get what you want as long as you’re willing to put in the work. 9. paula pant – the entrepreneur who took an enormous risk chasing freedom paula is a writer, speaker and freedom enthusiast. it didn’t take long after landing her “dream” job to know it wouldn’t offer the freedom she’d craved. today, paula has reached financial independence by building many income streams. her writing style is engaging will leave you questioning your limiting beliefs. lesson: it’s worth risking the odds to live your desired lifestyle. 10. steve – early retiree, fearless to take a stance steve reached financial independence 30 years earlier than the typical american. you can find his work in major sites such as forbes, business insider, and many more. currently, steve writes detailed content on his blog helping readers achieve financial independence. if you’re looking to save money, or retire early, you’ll love steve’s blog. lesson: plan ahead to reach your desired goals. 11. robert farrington – millennial sensei for college students robert is a consultant, and a writer dubbed as america’s millennial money expert. his passion for managing money at a young age led him to create the college investor. in his blog, you’ll find great resources to crush student loan debt and invest your money. lesson: be open-minded with how you can express your passion. 12. joe udo – the writer who took the road less taken taking risks ain’t easy, but there are always a few people who take it anyways. joe is a blogger, investor and a great example of what risk takers do. he retired before turning 40, after leaving a job he’d been working for over a decade. joe’s blog shares proven ways to building passive income, and managing your money. lesson: taking risks becomes easier when you prepare daily. 13. elle martinez – the financial superwoman for struggling couples elle has a passion for money, so much that she’s been writing about personal finance for over a decade. she enjoys helping couples build their finances together, and live on one income. elle’s blog helps you avoid money fights, boosts your savings, and much more. advertising lesson: find ways to solve the problems you’re obsessed about. 14. len penzo – creative blogger who makes personal finance entertaining len’s blog has received over 9 million visitors. he’s featured in major publications such as the ny times, forbes, and many more. len transforms boring money subjects into engaging content that hook readers for more. if you want to make smarter financial decisions, his blog is a must-read. lesson: create engaging content to build a large audience. 15. farnoosh torabi – finance expert, inspiring women to unleash their full potential farnoosh used to borrow clothes and eat $5 footlongs until she climbed out of debt. today she’s a journalist, author, tv personality, and financial expert. farnoosh is the host of so money, one of itunes’s top financial podcasts. she’s a leader and inspiration to other women. lesson: view your shortcomings as gifts and use them to stand out. 16. michelle schroeder-gardner – young entrepreneur achieving success on the road michelle started blogging in 2011 with hopes of improving her finances. today, her blog is one of the most popular personal finance blogs you’ll find. there’s a slim chance you might catch her on the road, as she’s touring around the us with her husband. her blog contains advice for growing your income and living a better lifestyle. lesson: be transparent about your struggles to build a supportive audience. 17. phillip talyor – money expert who knows how to throw a finance party phillip taylor or “pt” is a blogger, cpa, and a finance enthusiast. at one point, he’d accumulated a ton of debt and was in need of financial wisdom. he created his blog to document his financial wins, and collaborate with others. because of phillip’s passion for finance, he created fincon. today, fincon is the go-to conference where influencers and financial brands meet. lesson: hard work is more important than experience to achieve your goals. 18. stefanie o’connell – the financial role model every woman needs stefanie started blogging around 2008, at a time when most of america was in a financial crisis. despite this, she went from living on less than $500 a week to dubbed as a millennial money expert. stefanie spends her time helping ambitious women adopt “rich” habits. join stefanie’s tribe and start feeling empowered with your finances. lesson: you can be a role model for others if you’re brave enough to face your fears 19. j.d. roth – finance enthusiast who’ll leave you thinking smarter advertising j.d. was a contributor of the “your money” column for entrepreneur magazine. his blog is one of the best personal finance blogs on the web and has received millions of visitors. you’ll find in-depth articles that will leave you making smarter money decisions. lesson: no matter how big your problems are, there’s always a solution. 20. catherine alford – entrepreneur mom, inspiring women to chase their dreams catherine is a speaker, writer, and a proud mom of 2 twins. she’s an inspiration for women looking to spend more time with their families. catherine became best contributor/freelancer for personal finance in 2014. discover why you don’t need to choose between your career and family at catherine’s blog. lesson: your story can become the inspiration many are searching for. 21. natalie bacon – life coach and entrepreneur inspiring women to design their dream lives natalie is an inspiration for those looking to pursue their passion. she’s featured in major sites like the huffington post, forbes, and many others. natalie follows her dreams and isn’t afraid of hard work. her blog contains quality content that will inspire you to take action. lesson: don’t be afraid to change course because you’ll be one step closer to finding your dream life. 22. crystal paine – inspirational entrepreneur who loves to give back crystal is a personal finance blogger who’s been writing since 2006. her site has creative ways to save money on groceries, clothes, toys, and much more. crystal donates a percentage of her blog’s income towards life-impacting ministries. her blog will not only teach you how to save money but also how to live an abundant lifestyle. lesson: focus on helping others first and you’ll build massive wealth. 23. liz – frugal expert who’ll transform your bad spending habits liz is an author, writer and a frugal expert who enjoys helping others save money. she’s featured in npr, forbes, liz’s blog contains creative ways to save money and reach financial independence. lesson: be bold enough to prioritize your opinion above others’. start your blog and achieve jaw-dropping results imagine waking in your pajamas and opening your laptop. you notice a few hundred dollars were deposited to your paypal account. this money didn’t fall from the sky, it came from your blog. not too long ago you believed making money from a blog was impossible, but now you’ve finally achieved it. amazing isn’t it? this can be your reality if you learn from these successful bloggers. go through this list and pick your top three bloggers. take a look at their content (blog, podcast, video), and break your bad habits. the time has come to transform yourself into the blogger you’d like to become. you’re not someone who only wants to accumulate a ton of cash. you want to live your dream life and impact others doing what you love. what’s stopping you now? featured photo credit: pexels via pexels.com reference [1] ^ neil patel: affiliate marketing made simple: a step-by-step guide [2] ^ smart passive income: how to create and sell an online course: the ultimate guide [3] ^ smart blogger: why all bloggers should offer coaching (yes, even you) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to break bad habits: i broke 3 bad habits in less than 2 months how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change advertising advertising more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) 11 strengths all great leaders have advertising advertising money smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set financial goals and actually meet them ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement read full profile share pin it tweet share email finances can push anyone to the point of extreme anxiety and worry. easier said than done, planning finances is not an egg meant for everyone’s basket. and that’s why most of us are often living pay check to pay check. but did anyone tell you that it is actually not a tough task to meet your financial goals? in this article, we will explore ways on how to set financial goals and then actually meet them with ease. table of contents 5 steps to set financial goals 11 ways to achieve your financial goals ensuring healthy savings making smart investments the bottom line more tips about personal finance management 5 steps to set financial goals though setting financial goals might seem to be a daunting task but if one has the will and clarity of thought, it is rather easy. try using these steps: 1. be clear about the objectives any goal (let alone financial) without a clear objective is nothing more than a pipe dream. and this couldn’t be more true for financial matters. it is often said that savings is nothing but deferred consumption. therefore if you are saving today, then you should be crystal clear about what it is for. it could be anything like kid’s education, retirement, marriage, that dream vacation, fancy car etc. once the objective is clear, put a monetary value to that objective and the time frame. the important point at this step of goal setting is to list all the objectives, however small they may be, that you foresee in the future and put a value to it. 2. keep them realistic it’s good to be an optimistic person but being a pollyanna is not desirable. similarly, while it might be a good thing to keep your financial goals a bit aggressive, going out of the line will definitely hurt your chances of achieving them. it’s important that you keep your goals realistic in nature for it will help you stay the course and keep you motivated throughout the journey. 3. account for inflation ronald reagan once said – “inflation is as violent as a mugger, as frightening as an armed robber and as deadly as a hitman”. and this quote sums up the best what inflation could do your financial goals. therefore account for inflation whenever you are putting a monetary value to a financial objective that is far away in the future. for example, if one of your financial goal is your son’s college education, which is 15 years hence, then inflation would increase the monetary burden by more than 50% if inflation is mere 3%. so always account for inflation. 4. short term vs long term just like every calorie is not the same, the approach towards achieving every financial goal will not be the same. it is important to bifurcate goals in short term and long term. as a rule of thumb, any financial goal, which is due in next 3 years should be termed as short term goal. any longer duration goals are to be classified as long term goals. this bifurcation of goals into short term vs long term will help in choosing the right investment instrument to achieve them. more on this later when we talk about how to achieve financial goals. advertising 5. to each to his own the journey of setting financial goals is an individualistic affair i.e. your goals are your own goals and are determined by your want to achieve them. a lot of times we get on the bandwagon of goal setting only to realize later on that it was not meant for us. it is important that your goals are actually your goals and not inspired by someone else. take a hard look at this step at all the goals you’ve set for after this step, you will be on the way to achieve them. by now, you would be ready with your financial goals, now it’s time to go all out and achieve them. 11 ways to achieve your financial goals whenever we talk about chasing any financial goal, it is usually a 2 step process – ensuring healthy savings making smart investments you will need to save enough; and invest those savings wisely so that they grow over a period of time to help you achieve goals. so let’s get down to ensuring healthy savings. ensuring healthy savings self realization is the best form of realisation and unless you decide what your current financial position is, you aren’t heading anywhere. this is the focal point from where you start your journey of achieving financial goals. 1. track expenses the first and the foremost thing to be done is to track your monthly expenses. use any of the expense tracking mobile apps to record your expenses. once you start doing it diligently, you would be surprised to see how small expenses add up to a sizeable amount. also categorize those expenses into different bucket so that you know which bucket is eating the most of your pay check. this record keeping will pave the way for cutting down on un-wanted expenses and pump up your savings rate. 2. pay yourself first generally, savings come after all the expenses have been taken care of. this is a classical mistake which almost everyone of us do. we pay ourselves last! ideally, this should be planned upside down. we should be paying ourselves first and then to the world i.e. we should be taking out the planned saving amount first and then manage all the expenses from the rest. the best way to actually implement is to put the savings on automatic mode i.e. money flowing automatically into different financial instruments (for example – mutual funds, retirement corpus etc) every month. taking the automatic route will make us lose control of our money and hence will compel us to manage in what’s left with us thereby increasing the savings rate. 3. make a plan and vow to stick with it budgeting is the best to get around the uncertainty that financial plans always pose. decide in advance how spending has to be made. advertising nowadays, several money management apps and wallets can help you do this automatically. it’s easy and who knows, you may just end up doing what people fail to do. at first, you may not be able to stick to your plans completely but don’t let that become a reason why you stop budgeting entirely. make use of technology solutions you like. explore options and alternatives that let you make use of the available wallet options and choose the one that suits you the most. in time, you will get accustomed to making use of these solutions. you will find that they make it simpler for you to follow your plan, which would have been difficult otherwise. 4. rise again even if you fall let’s be realistic. it’s not like the world will come to an end if you made one mistake. this isn’t called leniency but discipline. if you fail to meet your budget for a month, don’t give up the entire effort just like that. instead, start again. remember that flexible plans are the most realistic plans. so go forward and try to follow your financial goals as planned but if for some reason, the plan gets out of hand for you, do not give up on it just yet. this has a lot to do with your psychology rather than any material commitment. all you have to do is to stay on the road and vow to stay on it, no matter how much you fall down. 5. make savings a habit and not a goal in the book nudge, authors richard thaler and cass sunstein advocate that in order to achieve any goal, it should be broken down into habits since habits are more intuitive for people to adapt to. make savings a habit rather than a goal. while it might seem to be counter intuitive to many but there are some deft ways of doing it. for example: always eat out (if at all) during weekdays rather than weekends. usually weekends are expensive. make it a habit and you would in turn be saving a great deal. if you are travelling buff, try to travel during off season. your outlay will be much less. if you go out for shopping, always look out for coupons and see where can you get the best deal. so the key point is to imbibe the action that results in savings rather than on the savings itself, which is the outcome. focusing on the outcome will bring out the feeling of sacrifice which will be harder to sustain over a period of time. advertising 6. talk about it sticking to the saving schedule (to achieve financial goals) is not an easy journey. there will be many distractions from those who are not aligned with your mission. and it would be rather easy to lose the grip over your discipline. therefore in order to stay the course, it is advisable that you keep yourself surrounded with people who are also on the same bandwagon. daily discussions with them will keep you motivated to move forward. 7. maintain a journal for some people, writing helps a great deal in making sure that they achieve what they plan. so if you are one of them, maintain a proper journal, where you write down your goals and also jot down the extent to which you managed to meet them. this will help you in reviewing how far you have come and which goals you have met. use this journal to write down all essential points such as your short term, mid term and long term goals, your current sources of income, your regular expenses which you are aware of and any committed expenses which are of recurring nature. when you have a written commitment on paper, you are going to feel more energised to follow the plan and stick to it. moreover, it is going to be a lot more easier for you to follow you and track your progress. at this point, you should be ready with your financial goals and would be doing brilliantly with savings; now it’s time to talk about the big daddy – investments. making smart investments savings by themselves don’t take anyone too far. however savings when invested wisely can do wonders and we are at that stage where we will talk about making smart investments. 8. consult a financial advisor investments doesn’t come naturally to most of us therefore rather than dabbling with it ourselves, it is wise to consult a financial advisor. talk to him/her about your financial goals and savings and then seek advice for the best investment instruments to achieve your goals. 9. choose your investment instrument wisely though your financial advisor will suggest the best investment instruments, it doesn’t hurt to know a bit about them. just like “no one is born a criminal”, no investment instrument is bad or good. it is the application of that instrument that makes all the difference. do you remember we talked about bifurcating financial goals in short term and long term? it is here where that classification will help. advertising so as a general rule, for all your short term financial goals, choose an investment instrument that has debt nature for example fixed deposits, debt mutual funds etc. the reason for going for debt instruments is that chances of capital loss is less as compared to equity instruments. 10. compounding is the eighth wonder einstein once remarked about compounding, compound interest is the eighth wonder of the world. he who understands it, earns it… he who doesn’t… pays it. so make friends with this wonder kid. and sooner you become friends with it, quicker you will reach closer to your financial goals. start investing early so that time is on your side to help you bear the fruits of compounding. 11. measure, measure, measure all of us do good when it comes to earning more per month but fail miserably when it comes to measuring the investments; taking stock of how our investments are doing. if there is one single step where everything (so far) can go wrong, it is at this step – measuring the progress. if we don’t measure the progress timely, then we would be shooting in the dark. we wouldn’t know if our saving rate is appropriate or not; whether financial advisor is doing a decent job; whether we are moving closer to our target or not. do measure everything. if you can’t measure it all yourself, ask your financial advisor to do it for you. but do it! the bottom line this completes the list of tips for you to set financial goals and actually achieve them with not so great difficulty. as you can see, all it requires is discipline. but guess that’s the most difficult part! more tips about personal finance management 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind top 10 recommendations on money management apps featured photo credit: rawpixel via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work advertising advertising more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next top 10 recommendations on money management apps how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.