start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising productivity smartcut advertising how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement read full profile share pin it tweet share email are you one of those people who is always rushing behind time to meet their deadlines and get their work done? well, if such is the case with you then this article is meant exactly for you. if you are always running late with your deadlines and out of time to get a job done, have you ever stopped to consider that perhaps something is wrong with your efficiency? or maybe, it could be your time management skills which are putting you behind the clock and always making you late for your deadlines. this article will get you some practical tips on how to work more efficiently. table of contents why is it important to become more efficient and meet deadlines on time? 9 useful tactics to tackle deadlines and work efficiently before starting a project during the project after the project is done the lazy guy’s guide to stop missing deadlines final thoughts why is it important to become more efficient and meet deadlines on time? being unproductive can counter satisfaction and life goals in the long run. before you even realise it, you will find yourself struggling to attain basic happiness in life and you will find yourself engaged in a never ending web of pending jobs. hence, in order to remain competitive at your work place and be regarded as a valued human resource of your organization, it might be a good idea to pull up your socks and stop rushing to meet deadlines each time. here are some tips that will help you improve your game and become a more enthusiastic person in life, who manages to meet his deadlines and remain a productive person: 1. identify and eliminate all unproductive jobs from your schedule this could mean that you need to shut down your phone while you are working or that you need to give up your netflix subscription or anything else. only you can define what is it that takes away your attention and time while you are working. it is in your good to identify them at the earliest and get rid of them. social media is one of the major areas which distracts many people. if that is the case with you, find ways to keep yourself off the sites and devote your time to work instead. 2. start by setting up small deadlines for yourself meeting a bigger deadline with a huge work load might be tricky when you are trying to bring yourself on track. instead, give yourself short term goals such as, ‘i am not going to use my phone for social media browsing for the next one hour’. stick to these goals and find yourself at a happier place when you meet them. slowly, this will put you in a habit to meet your goals and prepare you to meet the bigger goals as well. advertising 3. identify jobs that can be delegated delegate works to others and free up your time to attend important tasks that only you can perform: how to delegate work (the definitive guide for successful leaders) 4. upgrade your skill set upgrade your skill set to acquire knowledge and talent that will help you stand out from the rest of your fleet. this will help you perform your work with excellence and meet your targets on time. 5. start by doing jobs that need to be done first this will keep your work on track and avoid the last minute rush to get the important jobs done. 6. prioritzse your work attend those jobs first which require your attention immediately and save the remaining jobs for later in the day. this will help you stay updated with your task list and attend to priority jobs first. you will find that your schedule gradually eases up as you get your jobs done one by one. this will also free up your time for attending other jobs, which are not as important in nature. 9 useful tactics to tackle deadlines and work efficiently no matter what their profession might be, every person struggles to meet deadlines at one or more times in their work careers. deadlines tend to create an immense load of stress on those who are bound to meet them. moreover, missing a deadline is an adverse outcome that most productive people tend to avoid under all circumstances. fortunately enough for most of the hard working people out there, here are some common and useful tactics that can help you tackle even the scariest and tackiest deadlines ever. let us take a look at these life saving tips, which have been divided in three phases, for the convenience of your understanding. before starting a project your aim to become more efficient and manage your deadlines should ideally emanate right from the time when you plan to start a project. 1. set the scope of that project straight before you before beginning to work on a project, set the scope of that project straight before you. this will help you understand the context of work which you are required to undertake during the interim of the project. advertising this involves anticipating the volume of work that requires completing before the arrival of a deadline. while doing so, also keep provision for some extra time so that in the event that you encounter something unexpected, you are able to solve the matter, without disturbing the timeline of your deadline. 2. think twice before you commit to a new project at the same time, it makes sense to account for your existing project works before you commit to another one. all in all, at this stage, you are required to do everything that ensures that you have ample time to meet the time committed by you. during the project this is the stage when you are actually going to be doing everything to meet your deadlines and remain efficient at your job. 3. focus on starting the job at the earliest at this stage, your aim should be focus on starting the job at the earliest. procrastination is a bane that can put you in a state of desperation as your deadline approaches. waiting for the last minute to start a project can be largely counterproductive and put you behind on the clock. 4. stay focus on tasks which are top on your priority list the best strategy that you can adopt at this stage is to choose tasks which are top on your priority list. the most important and most difficult tasks must be done first. adopt time management strategies to stay in line with the clock. staying focused on your work area goes a long way in making you a more productive person. thus, it would be very helpful for you if you adopt a healthy lifestyle, eat right and take the perfect rest. also, keep your work area free of distractions, so that you are not pushed to divert your focus for something which is not a priority. 5. track your progress time and again, you must take steps to track your progress and check what portion of your goals have been met in the process of completing your jobs. give yourself short term goals, which are always easier to meet. alongside these short term goals, make it a habit to check your daily progress, which will give you an accurate idea about what you have accomplished and what remains to be accomplished. if you are lagging behind on your goals, this will also help you manage your time better, to meet your goals in time. 6. suspend activities that don’t contribute to your goals sometimes, it might be essential for you to suspend various activities which do not contribute to your goals and work. by this, you should directly understand the impact of activities such as social media, which tend to disturb your focus, attention and schedule. advertising hence, shunning out social media and like activities, would be a wise decision, until you get over a tight deadline. if needed, you can also take the assistance of helpers to meet an impending job. amidst this entire process, do not forget to keep a tab on your work and ensure that it is up to the mark. before turning it in, you should be sure about the correctness of the job. after all, there is no point in doing a job simply for the purpose of doing it, unless it does not bear the fruits that you expected. in fact, it makes more sense to ask for some more time to get a job done, instead of submitting a half done job or something that is not up to the mark. after the project is done simply submitting a project work does not mean that your work is done. there are still some more things that you can do to improve your efficiency and become a more productive person in the long run. 7. submit your project work before time to the client you can try and submit your project work before time to the client, in order to make more time for other projects, which can then be completed on time as well. moreover, it gives you the added advantage of making an impression on the client. this way, you will be entrusted with further jobs, which is good for your economics. 8. confirm receipt of the project the next most important thing that you must do is to confirm receipt of the project. even in these times of technological advancement, there are huge chances of the client blaming you for non-receipt of the project within the stipulated time. hence, the one thing which you must absolutely do after submitting your project, is to confirm if it has been received by the client. also, make it a point to bill your work promptly so that you can receive your dues within a reasonable time, keeping things flowing for you. 9. get client feedback amidst this entire scenario, it is absolutely important to get client feedback for the work submitted by you. this will help you analyse if the quality of work done by you is satisfactory. once you receive a positive response to your work, you will feel more motivated to meet your work deadlines in time. the lazy guy’s guide to stop missing deadlines this being said, here is a quick guide for the lazy procrastinator in you, who is tired of missing deadlines, so that you can manage to meet some of them in time. advertising 1. your focus should be on when it needs to be done, instead of focusing on what needs to be done. the deadline of the project sometimes becomes the deciding factor in determining the quality of your output and your ability to complete it on time. deadlines are dreaded because people feel restricted because of them. hence, one way to get over the dread is to negotiate and set them with your client at your own comfort. 2. sometimes, some people miss deadlines because of you. sometimes, some people tend to miss deadlines, not because they are lazy or because they are unable to complete the job on time. at times, the reason for missed deadlines is a lack of satisfaction with the quality of work performed by you. in this situation, you need to understand that aiming for perfection is a good quality but only as long as it does not hamper your deadlines. the moment that begins to happen, it would be in your interest to shift your focus on meeting your deadlines instead of trying to be perfect. 3. always try to work together with both, short term and long term deadlines. the short term deadlines aim to keep you motivated and interested in your job whereas long term deadlines aim to build your overall target for achieving long term objectives. 4. never try to overstep beyond the space of your room. engage yourself in work that equals only as much in quantity as you have the time to tackle with. fill your plate with only as much work that you can handle. 5. aim to settle down for fixed hours when working on your projects. if you bring major variation in your working hours, then you are bound to give yourself excuses to work late or postpone a particular task for another time of the day. final thoughts being late takes no time to turn into a psychological disorder and before you know it, it becomes a habit that you keep cultivating within you for an infinite time. if this is the case with you, perhaps it is time to stop blaming time and start introspecting what is wrong with your schedule, so that you can become a more efficient person and begin meeting your deadlines. with my practical tips above, you’ll quit the habit of rushing deadlines and start working efficiently. featured photo credit: a l l e f . v i n i c i u s δ via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to set short term goals for a successful life how to delegate tasks effectively (step-by-step guide) how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) advertising advertising more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.