skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search how i plan on living to become 120 years old i don’t know about you, but i desire to live to become 120 years old, hopefully in hyper-epic health. 1.avoid traumatic death. what can i prevent? a ‘traumatic’ death, meaning, a death that isn’t cancer/heart-disease/heart-attack related. this means don’t die via the following: don’t die in a car accident (texting while driving, speed-racing in a car, don’t die while crossing the street while checking my phone or listening to music, or die getting hit by a car while riding a motorcycle or bicycle, etc). don’t die bungee jumping, slipping and cracking open my noggin, don’t die falling into a hole, don’t die skydiving, deep water diving, etc. 2. focusing on my physiology what is your practical likelihood of death? most cases it is cancer or heart-disease. everything else (to an extent) is “preventable”. the basic notion of strengthening your physiology is this: make your body stronger. how do we do this? intermittent fasting. weight-lifting. walking a lot. cold exposure. pushing your body a little further every time. 3. how i workout my rule of thumb: when you’re working out, always try to push your body 25% more than you think you can. for example if you’re doing pushups or chin-ups and you feel you cannot do any more, take a big breath and try to churn out 25% more repetitions. also it seems useful to consume “hormetins” (bitter foods, slightly poisonous foods to us which stimulates us). for example, black coffee (no cream, no sugar), black tea, green tea, caffeine, 100% cocoa powder (no sugar), or cocoa nibs. also turmeric powder. an example of my home workout: a. dumbbell workouts at home in this video i got two 60 pound dumbbells [you can buy 70 pound dumbbells on amazon], and i do the following: pushup dumbell row squat military dumbbell press repeat b. bodyweight workouts at home for bodyweight: dive bomber pushup one-handed dive bomber pushup one hand balancing pseudo-planche animated gif’s photos and of course, you gotta flex: why flex? for yourself– to enjoy the fruits of your labor and your own personal progress. of course you don’t gotta be vain like me. you can just flex in private. 4. how i eat example home meal. stewed meat in crockpot. what i eat: spicy foods (cayenne peppers) fermented foods (kimchi, pickled jalapeño, sauerkraut) fatty cuts of meat (beef, pork, chicken) eggs (including yolk) bitter greens [kale, collard greens] i typically cook with cindy using the oven or with a crockpot. often we will put the meat inside the ceramic crockpot, then bake it, then put it in the crockpot [more flavor]. and no, cholesterol, saturated fat, meat, sodium isn’t bad for you. 5. i love life. hyper happiness is physiological i love life. i want to live as long as humanly possible. of course i won’t live forever, but i will settle with 120 years. henri neck strap (mark iii) shoot fearless > haptic industries creative tools to empower you. haptic industries on amazon > eric kim newsletter free motivation: email address eric kim workshops conquer your fears and meet new peers: april 25-26: chicago conquer composition workshop september 19-20: boston discover your unique voice in photography workshop (new date) november 4-8: havana, cuba travel street photography workshop experience – register intent join ars: the anti-social social media for photographers what do people really think about your photos? arsbeta.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta