wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials » how to easily accept credit card payments on your wordpress site how to easily accept credit card payments on your wordpress site last updated on february 22nd, 2019 by editorial staff 181 shares share tweet share pin do you want to learn how to accept credit card payments on your wordpress site? by default, wordpress does not come with credit card payment options, but there are plenty of plugins and tools that can help solve that. in this article, we will show you how to easily accept credit card payments on your wordpress site. note: you will need to enable https / ssl on your website to accept credit card payments. accepting credit card payments in wordpress without shopping cart often users don’t want to setup a full-fledged shopping cart to accept credit card payments. this makes a lot of sense specially if you’re only selling a single product or accepting payments for consulting / services. in this case, all you need is an online order form with a credit card payment option. here is how you can easily accept credit card payments without adding a shopping cart to your website. first thing you need to do is install and activate the wpforms plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. wpforms is the most beginner friendly wordpress form builder plugin. while they have a lite version that’s free, you will need their pro plan to access the payment add-ons. upon activation, you need to visit wpforms » settings page to enter your license key. you can find this information in your wpforms account area. next, you need to head over to wpforms » addons page and locate the stripe addon. go ahead and click on the ‘install addon’ button and then click on the ‘activate’ button. stripe is a credit-card processing platform that makes it easy for businesses to accept credit card payments on their website. wpforms makes it easy to connect your wordpress website to stripe. once the stripe addon is activated, we need to connect wpforms to your stripe account. to do that, head over to wpforms » settings page and click on the ‘payments’ tab. you will need to enter your stripe api keys. you can find this information in your account settings on stripe’s website. don’t forget to click on the ‘save settings’ button to store your changes after entering the api keys. wpforms is now ready to accept credit card payments. let’s create an online billing or order form that you can add to your website for accepting credit card payments. head over to wpforms » add new page. from here you need to provide a title for your form and then select ‘billing / order form’ template. wpforms will pre-load the form builder with a billing/order form template with commonly used fields. you can point and click to edit any form field. you can also add new fields from the left column. next, you need to scroll down to the payment fields section in the left column. from here you can add payment related form fields. wpforms allows you to add multiple items as well as single items that users can order. you can click on the item field to change item details and pricing. after editing item details, go ahead and click to add the credit card field to your form. now that your form is setup, let’s enable payments for this form. to do that, you need to click on the payments tab on the left and then select stripe. you will need to click on the checkbox next to ‘enable stripe payments’ option and provide a description of the payment. optionally, you can send an email receipt to your users by selecting the email field from the drop-down menu. next, you may want to receive an email notification for new orders and purchases. you can also send a confirmation email to notify the user that you have received their order. let’s setup notifications for your billing form. you need to start with clicking the ‘settings’ tab on the left and then select ‘notifications’. you will notice that wpforms has already created a notification that sends an email to your wordpress admin email address when a new order is placed. you can edit this notification message. for example, you can provide additional email addresses, change email copy, subject, and more. if you want to send a separate notification to your users, then click on the ‘add new notification’ button. you will be asked to provide a name for the new notification. let’s call it ‘customer notification’. after that you will see the notification fields that you can edit. you need to click on the ‘show smart tags’ link next to ‘send to email address’ option and select the ‘email’ field. this allows wpforms to use the email address that your customer provided when submitting the form. you can edit rest of the notification email by providing a subject line and message. you can also use smart tags to use the form fields submitted by the user to add item details, user’s name, and other personalized information. once you are done, you can click on the save button at the top and exit the form builder. your online credit card payment form is now ready, and you can add it to any wordpress page on your site. simply edit a page or create a new one, and then click on the ‘add form’ button above the page editor. this will bring up a popup where you can select the order form and click on the add form button to continue. wpforms will now enter the required shortcode to your post edit area. you can now save or publish your page and click on the preview button to see your form in action. note: don’t forget to test your form to make sure everything is working fine. if you are unable to send or receive email notifications, then follow the instructions in our guide on how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. wpforms is the simplest way to accept credit card payments in wordpress, and it is the easiest way to create just about any type of form in wordpress. this is why it ranks #1 in our list of the best wordpress contact form plugin. wpforms has over 1 million active installs and a 4.9 out of 5 star rating average. if you don’t want to use stripe, then you can also use paypal to accept credit card payments using the wpforms paypal addon. however a simple payment form isn’t a perfect solution for everyone. based on use-case, you may need a different solution for accepting credit card payments on your website. here are some other ways to accept credit card payments in wordpress. accepting credit card payments in an online store if you want to add a shopping cart and sell multiple items, then you will need an ecommerce plugin like: woocommerce. it is the best wordpress ecommerce plugin on the market. woocommerce makes it easy to sell things online and accept credit card payments. for complete step by step instructions, see our guide on how to start an online store for beginners. accept credit card payments on a membership website if you want to build a membership website to sell membership subscriptions and paid content, then we recommend using memberpress. it is the most powerful wordpress membership plugin that easily integrates with stripe, paypal, or authorize.net to accept credit card payments on your website. here is a complete guide on how to create a membership website with step by step instructions. accept payments by selling online courses if you want to sell online courses, then we recommend using learndash. it is the best lms plugin for wordpress and allows you to process credit card payments on your website. for details, see our guide on how to how to sell online courses with wordpress with step by step instructions. we hope this article helped you learn how to accept and process credit card payments in wordpress. you may also want to see our list of the must have wordpress plugins for business websites. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 181 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to start your own podcast (step by step) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 17 commentsleave a reply brenda davis says: aug 12, 2019 at 10:52 pm hello my name is brenda i’m very new to building my website .i’m having a hard time connecting woocommerce and pay pal to my site which doubles as a store and blog .. my domain is through blue host and wordpress . i have reset my site at 6 times. once i began to put what i was told several pluggins in and it crashed my website. luckily blue host reset it back . and i hadn’t lost my design. but now woo commerce will not link or pay pal . please help . thanking you in advance for your time . brenda reply wpbeginner support says: aug 13, 2019 at 10:12 am it would depend on the specific error you are running into for linking paypal but you would likely want to check with woocommerce to ensure there isn’t any issue with the plugin itself. reply moolah says: aug 7, 2019 at 3:28 am i want to start new business solutions! can you please give some advice. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 7, 2019 at 10:10 am it would depend on what you’re looking for. if you’re looking for ways to monetize your site you could take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/make-money-online/ reply mason canyon says: apr 23, 2019 at 8:20 pm i’m trying to find out if a can put a paypal widget on any version of wordpress or if i need a certain level. i understand i can’t add it on a free version, but what about the blogger, personal or premium plans. does it have to be the business plan? thanks for any help you can give me in this matter. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 24, 2019 at 11:59 am to clarify, it sounds like you’re on wordpress.com and our tutorials are for wordpress.org sites: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/self-hosted-wordpress-org-vs-free-wordpress-com-infograph/ you would likely need the business plan on wordpress.com to add custom html reply rob says: mar 26, 2019 at 8:15 am what about international wordpress site owners who can not register at paypal or stripe because their countries is not listed !! is there another method to add a payment gateway so that customers can pay for their purchases. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: mar 26, 2019 at 12:58 pm unless i hear otherwise, we do not have a recommended alternative at the moment but we will keep an eye out reply s sah says: mar 14, 2019 at 4:10 am how can i accept debit card payment? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 14, 2019 at 10:07 am stripe is one method you could use to accept debit cards. reply patrick says: jan 17, 2019 at 4:44 am you forgot to mention that you need to buy the plugin first! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 17, 2019 at 11:23 am apologies if we did not make this clear enough, we’ll certainly take a look at improving that, we do state in the article: “while they have a lite version that’s free, you will need their pro plan to access the payment add-ons.” reply o moses says: sep 18, 2018 at 5:46 pm thanks for this wonderful article i would like to know how to integrate this payment method to my local bank account. i mean when a customer makes a purchase on my website using the above described payment method, how will the money drop into my local bank account reply wpbeginner support says: sep 18, 2018 at 9:04 pm hi, when you sign up for an stripe account, you can add your bank account details into your stripe account. once the money arrives in your stripe account, you can transfer it to your bank. reply dave wilde says: aug 29, 2018 at 10:51 am hello. so stripe, paypal and payeezy plugin work with wordpress. any other gateways or vt’s that work inside wordpress or with wp? thanks, dave reply richard rottman says: may 8, 2018 at 12:06 pm if you have a first data payeezy account and want to take credit card payments in wordpress, i created a free plugin and it’s in the wordpress plugin repository. https://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-payeezy-pay/ reply jonathan says: may 8, 2018 at 10:30 am it’s not mentioned here but with stripe you get two sets of api keys one for a live site and one for a testing environment. i would use the test keys first make a few “payments” to see if everything works as expected. when happy then change to the live keys. (obviously make sure pages are not accessible to customers with test keys) if you use the live keys first and things don’t work as expected then you end up with problems with customers reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.