wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how to get a free ssl certificate for your wordpress website (beginner’s guide) how to get a free ssl certificate for your wordpress website (beginner’s guide) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 1.4k shares share tweet share pin did you know that google shows all non-ssl websites as “not secure”. this means that if you are not using a ssl certificate on your website, then you’ll lose customers trust. because ssl certificate helps protect your website data, it’s actually a requirement for accepting payments online. normally, paid ssl certificates are quite expensive. if you are just starting a blog or making a diy business website, then you likely want to keep costs low. luckily, there are multiple ways to get a free ssl certificate to reduce your website cost. in this article, we will show you how to easily get a free ssl certificate for your wordpress website and set it up all by yourself. we will also cover the following topics: what is an ssl certificate? why you need an ssl certificate for your wordpress site how does ssl certificate work to keep information secure how much ssl certificates cost how you can get a free ssl certificate how to install a free ssl certificate in wordpress ready? let’s get started. what is ssl? ssl stands for secure sockets layer. it is an internet protocol for securing data transfer between a user’s browser and the website they are visiting. every internet user transfers information when they visit websites. this information can often be sensitive like payment details, credit card information, or login credentials. using the normal http protocol means this information can be hijacked by hackers. this is where ssl or https comes in. websites need an ssl certificate issued by one of the recognized certificate issuing authority. this certificate is verified and highlighted in the user’s browser address bar with a padlock sign and https instead of http. do i need an ssl certificate for my wordpress website? ssl / https is recommended for all websites on the internet. however, it is absolutely required for all websites that collect user information like login details, payment information, credit cards, and more. if you are running an e-commerce store, a membership website, or require users to login, then you need to get an ssl certificate right away. most online payment services require your website to use ssl/https before you can receive payments. apart from security, ssl certificate also creates a positive impression of your brand among your users. google also recommends using ssl, and research shows that ssl-enabled websites rank slightly higher in search results. last but not least, if your website is not using an ssl certificate, then google chrome will show your users that your website is not secure. this icon affects your brand image and user’s trust on your website. how does ssl certificate work? now that we have explained what is ssl and why is it important, you might be wondering how does an ssl certificate actually works? ssl protects information by encrypting the data transfer between a user’s browser and the website. when a user visits an ssl/https website, their browser first verifies if the website’s ssl certificate is valid. if everything checks out, then the browser uses the website’s public key to encrypt the data. this data is then sent back to the intended server (website) where it is decrypted using the public key and a secret private key. how much do ssl certificates cost? cost of ssl certificates differs from one certificate authority to another. their pricing could be anywhere between $50-200 / year. some providers offer add-on services with their certificates which may also affect the cost of your ssl certificate. if you are going to purchase an ssl certificate, then we recommend using domain.com. they are one of the largest domain name registration service in the world, and they offer the best deal on ssl certificates. they offer simple ssl certificate plans starting from $35.99 / year, and it comes with a $10,000 security warranty along with trustlogo site seal. after you have purchased an ssl certificate, you can ask your hosting provider to install it for you. but before you do that, you should check to see if you can get the ssl certificate for free. how can i get an ssl certificate for free? a lot of website owners are reluctant to use ssl due to the additional cost. this left many small websites vulnerable to data and information theft. a non-profit project called let’s encrypt decided to fix this by establishing a free certificate authority. the purpose of this certificate authority is to make it easier for website owners to get a free ssl certificate. internet becomes a safer place if more and more websites start using ssl. due to the significance of the project, it quickly earned the support of major companies like google, facebook, shopify, wordpress.com and many others. the challenge is that installing the free ssl certificate by let’s encrypt for a beginner user is quite difficult because it requires coding knowledge and server systems knowledge. thankfully, all of the best wordpress hosting companies are now offering free ssl certificate with all their hosting plans (some are using let’s encrypt). choosing one of these providers will save you from the hassle of installing the free ssl certificate on your own. here are the top wordpress hosting companies that offer free ssl certificate with their hosting plans. bluehost siteground hostgator wpengine dreamhost inmotion hosting greengeeks ipage liquid web if you are already using one of these companies, then you can turn on your free ssl certificate from your hosting dashboard. simply login to your hosting account’s cpanel dashboard and scroll down to the ‘security’ section. bluehost users will find the free ssl option by visiting my sites » manage site page. from here, you can switch to the security tab and turn on free ssl certificate for your website. depending on your hosting company, your web hosting control panel may look different than the screenshot above. if you are having trouble locating the free ssl option, then you can ask your hosting provider to enable it for you. if your web hosting company does not offer free ssl, then you can easily follow our guide to switch your hosting and move your sites to one of the companies above. installing free ssl certificate and setting up wordpress once you have enabled your free ssl certificate, you will need to set up wordpress to start using https instead of http in all your urls. the easiest way to do this is by installing and activating the really simple ssl plugin on your website. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, the plugin will check to see if your ssl certificate is enabled. after that, it will turn on http to https redirect and change your website settings to start using ssl/https. to make your website completely secure, you need to make sure that urls of your website are loading using the https protocol. really simple ssl plugin does that automatically by fixing the urls when the page loads. even if a single url still loads using the insecure http protocol, then browsers will treat your entire website as not fully secure. to fix these urls, you will need to use your browser’s inspect tool to find them and then replace them with the correct https urls. for more on this, see our tutorial on how to fix mixed content error in wordpress. really simple ssl plugin makes it super easy to set up free ssl certificate in wordpress. that’s why we recommend it for all beginners. however, it catches insecure urls when the page loads, which increases your page load time a little bit. this is why advanced users who are concerned about wordpress speed uses the manual method to setup their free ssl certificate. we have created detailed step by step instructions to help you properly switch wordpress from http to https (which shows both the manual method and the plugin method). we hope this article helped you learn how to get a free ssl certificate for your wordpress site. you may also want to see our step by step guide on how to create free business email address for your wordpress site. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.4k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to start your own podcast (step by step) revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 53 commentsleave a reply dr.ismail khan says: jan 1, 2020 at 5:33 am really informative reply wpbeginner support says: jan 2, 2020 at 10:16 am thank you reply amy says: sep 8, 2019 at 11:39 pm because of this article i was able to do the encryption on my own! thanks sooo much. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 9, 2019 at 10:06 am you’re welcome, glad our guide could be helpful reply rahul rai says: aug 30, 2019 at 1:05 am thank you for helping peoples all around the world through this website and this article is really informative specially for beginner entrepreneurs. so keep sharing your knowledge with us . reply wpbeginner support says: aug 30, 2019 at 9:41 am you’re welcome, glad you’ve found our tutorials helpful reply julie says: may 19, 2019 at 7:49 am that not secure notification has been bugging me since i launched my blog. followed this step by step and i got it fixed. thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: may 20, 2019 at 1:21 pm glad our guide could help reply sabine says: mar 15, 2019 at 7:10 am hmm, i am on bluehost, and it tells me “free ssl certificate – unavailable” i will figure it out but seems like i must do it some other way, not like you`ve shown here. anyway, thanks for the article. i had no idea that i could get ssl for free. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 18, 2019 at 2:42 pm you may want to reach out to bluehost, it could also be an issue on their end if there is trouble with their ssl certificate procedure. glad our article could help reply paula caplan says: mar 13, 2019 at 3:21 pm which hosting platform do you think is better–hostgator or bluehost ? what do you find to be the pros and cons of each, especially with regard to features, pricing, and support. thanks for your feedback! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 14, 2019 at 10:21 am you would want to take a look at our comparison page here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wordpress-hosting/ reply francis says: mar 7, 2019 at 12:19 pm in case you have not hosted with above hosting firms what do you do? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 8, 2019 at 10:52 am that would depend on your specific hosting, if you reach out to your hosting provider they should let you know what they accept reply sayem ibn kashem says: feb 17, 2019 at 3:10 am very useful article. thanks for sharing reply wpbeginner support says: feb 18, 2019 at 1:47 pm glad it was helpful reply iulian says: jan 21, 2019 at 2:30 pm hey, do you guys know why when i added my website to cloudflare to get that ssl, my mp3 from the website are acting like live stream? doesn’t work anymore to “browser” on them anymore.. any help would be appreciate it. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jan 23, 2019 at 1:07 pm it would depend on how your embedded the mp3s but changing your ssl normally shouldn’t affect files like that. reply iulian says: jan 26, 2019 at 11:56 am i know it shouldn’t but it is.. i closed roket loader and also played with auto minify, still doesnt work. all the mp3’s from the website doesn’t work to hover on other minutes to play. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 28, 2019 at 1:48 pm the links to the files may not have updated properly, you may want to try updating the urls with: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-update-urls-when-moving-your-wordpress-site/ chris says: jan 14, 2019 at 9:59 pm the hosting service i’m using claims free ssl certificate but requires the purchase of a dedicated ip, whatever that is. sounds like false advertising. reply editorial staff says: jan 15, 2019 at 7:33 am hi chris, which hosting company is that? reply chris says: jan 15, 2019 at 11:48 am bluehost reply wpbeginner support says: jan 15, 2019 at 1:15 pm that’s quite odd, you would likely want to reach out to them if you continue to run into that issue. the steps for their free ssl are found here: https://my.bluehost.com/hosting/help/free-ssl jim says: jan 14, 2019 at 5:57 pm i have hostgator and they want $39.99. i need help. i can not keep spending money. can you show me in the customer portal what to do. maybe i need to change hosting. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 15, 2019 at 2:15 pm you would want to reach out to their support about their free ssl to ensure they don’t think you are requesting something else. reply akash says: jan 16, 2019 at 12:17 pm dear jim, i was reading your comment, i also faced the same issue, i have recently switched my hosting to hostgator of my website and my free ssl was not installing, i contacted their tech support through hostgator account accound and asked to person to install it, the tech person installed it on the website, so you can also try the same. i hope it will work for you. reply himanshu says: jan 14, 2019 at 5:55 pm wow! you are terrific! just last week i went through the installation of a free ssl and manual conversion of some 4 http’s to https’. godaddy does not allow let’s encrypt so all my work of free ssl install was a total waste and since i did not know anything about wordpress and web hosting, lets encrypt ssl install took me four full 8-hour-days for nothing. then i installed cloudflare ssl which was easy. really simple ssl is fantastic but i am not sure if i need to keep it on my site after my all of my hhpt’s are converted into https’ and i see a padlock on address bar for every page of my website. do i need to keep really simple ssl plugin on my site or can i remove it? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 15, 2019 at 2:06 pm you can remove the plugin, however you would want to follow the steps in their guide: https://really-simple-ssl.com/knowledge-base/can-deactivate-really-simple-ssl-activating-ssl/ reply vasudo says: jan 14, 2019 at 11:03 am hello, thanks for this, how to add this feature to an existing website? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 15, 2019 at 1:45 pm you would want to take a look at the article: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-add-ssl-and-https-in-wordpress/ reply mohammad says: jan 13, 2019 at 10:53 pm thanks for giving such an interesting information of wordpress. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 14, 2019 at 2:48 pm glad you enjoy our content reply angela patrie says: jan 13, 2019 at 11:39 am my domain is registered with blue host, but i’m using an independent company for hosting who started offering ssl a year ago for $100 as an add-on, which i declined. do i need to migrate my blog over to bluehost for hosting to get the free ssl? i’d rather not pay an extra $100 with my current host but am really annoyed and concerned about losing traffic with the “site not secure” message visitors see. please advise. thanks. reply editorial staff says: jan 14, 2019 at 2:17 pm hi angela, to get the free ssl, you can either migrate back to bluehost or use any of the other companies we mentioned in the list that offer free ssl. most good wordpress hosting companies are now offering free ssl, and if your provider is not, then it’s time to switch reply wpbeginner support says: jan 14, 2019 at 2:28 pm if your current host does not allow free ssl, you would likely want to look into transferring to a host such as bluehost for the free ssl. reply sunil says: jan 12, 2019 at 4:55 pm i love the simple language words and detailing in your articles… can i use your page link in my wordpress blogs. so that user can refer to your site for details for some difficult glossary words reply wpbeginner support says: jan 14, 2019 at 1:54 pm you can certainly link to our articles and pages if you like reply karen says: jan 9, 2019 at 9:53 pm thank you so much for this tutorial. i’m just getting back to blogging after a year’s break and was very unhappy to see the not secure prefix to my web address. as my site is already hosted by bluehost, i was able to get my certificate free. i installed the really simple ssl plugin in just a couple of minutes and now have the https prefix. and it was incredibly easy!!! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 10, 2019 at 11:28 am glad we could bring the plugin to your attention reply lauren k says: dec 1, 2018 at 1:30 am this was so incredibly helpful, thank you!! i spent so much time designing a beautiful website i definitely didn’t want that pesky not secure msg appearing before my url. i thought fixing that issue would be a whole ordeal but you made it so seamless. thank you again! reply wpbeginner support says: dec 4, 2018 at 5:52 pm hi lauren, glad you found it helpful. you may also want to subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. reply seun says: nov 28, 2018 at 3:36 am my hosting company is charging me for ssl, pls how do i get it free, thanks reply wpbeginner support says: nov 29, 2018 at 4:29 pm hi, please see the article above. reply jan says: nov 20, 2018 at 10:21 pm i have no input tags, just a bunch of static pages. near as i can tell, it is thinking my own login to my site is what’s causing the not secure error message – i don’t know… i have a managed word press site through godaddy and i already called them and they wanted to sell me a cert for $200. not interested. i am not selling anything, i have no input tags, nothing… any advice would be appreciated. reply paul says: nov 16, 2018 at 7:53 am i have an old wordpress site 3.4.2 and want to put an ssl on it, any ideas how to go about this please? reply viola raw woolcott says: aug 18, 2018 at 7:16 am i am totally lost with this. i have only just noticed that it says that my site is not secure and have no idea what to do about it, so i am reading….and i do not have any ssl on my wordpress site or in the panel…..??? what shall i do?? any help would be much appreciated. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 19, 2018 at 6:04 pm hi viola, please contact your wordpress hosting provider and they may be able to setup free ssl certificate on your website. after that you can install the really simple ssl plugin to make your site secure. reply sharon everest says: jul 12, 2018 at 1:37 pm my wordpress site is hosted by bluehost. i have just tried to enable my “free” ssl certificate on bluehost’s site, but when i follow the instructions as per your advice above i am prompted to “choose a certificate” – and it seems that the only options on offer have a monthly fee attached, ranging from $4.17 to $24.92 per month: see plus there is also a notice that “a dedicated ip is required to add a ssl certificate. if you do not have one, click “add” on any of the ssl certificates, and a dedicated ip will be added automatically for $5.99/mo.” i thought bluehost were meant to be offering ssl certificates for free for sites hosting with them? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 13, 2018 at 3:37 pm hi sharon, please login to your bluehost hosting panel. take your mouse to your wordpress site and click on manage site button. on the next page, click on the security tab. from here, you can tun on free ssl certificate by just clicking on a button. reply karol says: jul 4, 2018 at 4:09 pm congratulations and a big thank you. wpbeginner is my first go to for wordpress help. reply jeffrey says: jul 2, 2018 at 8:33 pm great info! budding web designer with siteground account. cool that’s there’s no extra cost for ssl. does that mean that the certificates never expire? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 5, 2018 at 2:06 am hi jeffrey, it does, but siteground will automatically renew it for you and you wouldn’t need to do anything. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.