video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map franchises how this franchise ceo learned to lead by making mistakes speedpro president and ceo larry oberly is haunted by some of his earliest missteps as a manager. but today, that's made him a better boss. next article --shares add to queue grow your business, not your inbox stay informed and join our daily newsletter now! email will be used in accordance with our privacy policy image credit: courtesy of speedpro stephanie schomer magazine contributor deputy editor march 19, 2020 4 min read this story appears in the march 2020 issue of entrepreneur. subscribe » when larry oberly entered the franchise world 29 years ago, he wasn’t a great leader — and he’s the first to admit it. but with nearly three decades of experience across such brands as baskin-robbins, re/max and the sign and graphics printing company speedpro, which he joined as ceo in 2017, he’s learned that leadership is more about accessibility than strict processes. now he listens — to his staff, to his 135 franchisees and to his customers — in order to build sustainable growth and spot fresh opportunities for the $74 million business. when you joined speedpro, what were some of the first changes you made as ceo? i saw a chance to build a better onboarding program for our franchisees. we created an intensive program starting with one week of business training at our denver hq, which covers everything from maximizing our pos system to financial management to sales and marketing. from there, we pair new owners with a “buddy studio,” a nearby location where they can go and sell the products and services. then we bring them back to hq for another week of production training. and then when they open their doors, we’re there to provide on-site support. related: the most important career lessons are the ones you learn from your mistakes what did training look like before? just a week’s training and some online courses. what we have now is something i wish i’d had when i was a franchisee at baskin-robbins — especially the financial part. having someone really help you understand how this business can and should make money is invaluable. how much has your time as a franchisee influenced the way you work as a franchisor? my entire leadership style changed at baskin-robbins. i owned two stores in the ’90s and started it as a sideline business — i was working full-time under a union shop in the airline industry, and i was not a kind guy. but when you own your own business, you realize how easily you can lose your team members if you do the wrong thing. at my first store, i had an exceptional manager who one day left her clean coffee mug on the counter instead of putting it in the back. i’m embarrassed by this, but i left a note on it that said, “the next time this is left here, i’m throwing it out.” almost immediately, i realized it was a mistake, one i never forgot. i was making myself vulnerable. it taught me to never be trivial or give people reasons to question what kind of person you are. so how would you describe your leadership style today? i really feel like i’m a servant leader. i have what i call a “no door” policy — i don’t want to be the bottleneck in the company, and i want my team to feel comfortable interrupting me if they need a fast decision in order to take action. don’t be the guy who keeps progress from happening. related: 5 ways a franchise can grow fast in addition to being a baskin-robbins franchisee, you spent nearly two decades in the corporate office of re/max. speedpro’s services and customer base are very different from both of those businesses’. how did you get up to speed on this kind of client? reading. and listening. i read about eight trade magazines regularly, and that makes it easy to understand developing trends and where business shifts are headed. you can build strategies around that. and last year, we did our first set of town hall meetings with franchisees. listening to our owners — the folks talking to our customers each and every day — gave us a lot of ideas for initiatives that launched last year and more this year. from new marketing and sales initiatives such as targeting commercial interior designers as customers, we’re finding better ways to own our space and deliver the best service. more from entrepreneur get heaping discounts to books you love delivered straight to your inbox. we’ll feature a different book each week and share exclusive deals you won’t find anywhere else. sign up now jumpstart your business. entrepreneur insider is your all-access pass to the skills, experts, and network you need to get your business off the ground—or take it to the next level. join now entrepreneur store scours the web for the newest software, gadgets & web services. explore our giveaways, bundles, "pay what you want" deals & more. shop now related books the franchisee handbook buy from the franchisee handbook buy from amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read franchise bible buy from franchise bible buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read the naming book buy from the naming book buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read the unstoppable journal buy from the unstoppable journal buy from amazon entrepreneur books ultimate guide to link building buy from ultimate guide to link building buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read career rehab buy from career rehab buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read latest on entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account franchises franchising provides owners with a proven model and opportunities to evolve the system franchises 8 of the best house-maintenance franchises you can buy now franchises what franchises should know before hiring a pr firm franchises why this entrepreneur left tesla to open a tech repair franchise franchise 500 24 top-ranked, affordable franchises you can buy for $25,000 or less