home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to fast-track your journey as a budding writer if you’re like most budding writers, you know all too well about the fears and doubts that creep into your mind during the process of writing. not only is it frustrating, but even worse – fear and doubt can wreak havoc on your confidence and… • keep you from writing something new. • intimidate you into scrapping a perfectly valid piece of writing. • stop you from releasing your words out into the world. mary jaksch, editor-in-chief the fact that you experience doubt and fear during the writing process may actually be a sign that you’re on the right track because you’re taking risks and pushing outside your comfort zone. on the other hand, it’s difficult to grow if you have so many doubts that it undermines your confidence. without the confidence to push on, you risk stagnation. imagine for a moment what it would be like to have confidence as a writer. you would say with pride, "i am a writer." you would be happy to share with others what you have written. you would be able to follow your dreams of becoming writer whose words change lives. you know in your own heart that you have something to offer; something special that can make a difference. if only your lack of confidence wouldn't hold you back... what is the solution? as you know, there are many wonderful articles on writetodone that can help you get the skills you need, as well as build your confidence. but sometimes it can feel as if you're drowning in information and you feel overwhelmed, right? you just don't know where to start and how to grow as a writer. you wish someone would take you by the hand and lead you to success. if you want to fast-track your development as a writer, there is a special way forward. it's not for everyone, though. i work personally with a small number of budding writers to mentor them so that they can spread their wings. this individual mentoring program is called the budding writer's lab. mandy hansenau i just wanted to thank you for your mentoring, mary. now i can say, 'i'm a writer!' before i worked with you, i was too embarrassed to talk about my writing. but now i feel proud. i loved the way you helped me develop the skills i needed with a lot of patience and encouragement. you've given my self-esteem a much-needed boost! as you can imagine, many aspiring writers want to work with me. as the editor-in-chief of writetodone.com, as well as being an author whose work is translated into 7 languages, i know exactly what it takes to become a confident writer. unfortunately, i can only accept 5 budding writers at any given time. below are details of the the budding writer's lab. remember, this program will lead to you becoming a confident and skillful writer who can say with pride, "i'm a writer!" the budding writer's lab time commitment this is a 3-months program to get your confidence up and build skills. mentoring sessions during the budding writer's lab, you'll have the opportunity to meet up with me, mary jaksch, online for 6 one-hour private training sessions. i'll lead you through an easy sequence of writing exercises, give feedback on your writing, and answer any of your questions. i'll also show you how to establish the habit of writing regularly. these sessions will inspire you and build your confidence. unlimited email access during the budding writer's lab, you'll have unlimited email access to your mentor. this means you can get answers to your questions straight away. personal motivational emails you can choose to receive a daily, short motivational email to keep you on track. feedback and practice you can choose to have a piece of writing up to 2,000 words reviewed by your mentor and will receive detailed feedback and suggestions for practice. scroll down to read more testimonials. tess marshall mary jaksch is a brilliant mentor who has a deep and personal commitment to her students. with precision and clarity she encouraged and supported me in making changes that saved me time, energy, and money. i highly recommend mary’s mentoring program. luke nanasoor wow! the budding writer's lab has had a tremendous impact on my writing. i'm so much more confident now and i'm proud to call myself a writer. mary is super encouraging and has a wealth of tricks up her sleeve! patti foy mary is the best mentor i could ask for; generous with her time, her knowledge, her hard-earned wisdom, and her encouraging support. i owe much of my perseverance and success to her. investment investing in yourself is the best thing you can do for your future and for the future of your loved ones. the fee for the budding writer's lab is $375 per months for 3 months or a one-time payment of $990. (you'll be able to step back from the program and get a refund during the first 7 days.) the budding writer's lab has only 5 slots available at any one time. if the slots are are already filled, you'll get an immediate refund and your subscription will be stopped. easy-pay option discount option 3 monthly payments of $375 one-time payment of $990 (save $135) if you are unsure whether this is right for you, you can request a 30-min consultation. just remember that there are only 5 slots for the budding writer's lab at any one time, and, if you delay, this opportunity may be gone. the fee for the consultation is $175. if the consultation shows that the budding writer's lab is not right for you, all further payments will immediately be cancelled. please click here to request a consultation. hurry to grab your place in the budding writer's lab to transform your writing. there are only 5 places at any one time! to avoid disappointment, click on one of the options above. tweet pin share copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >