home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library holidays travel prevnext how to rv in the winter leyla preston thu 5th oct 2017 6shares share tweet pin the weather is becoming colder and the days are getting cut short, but it doesn’t mean you should enjoy your holidays indoors or even abroad in the hot sun. bring out the rv (or rent one here if you don’t have one) because rv’ing in the winter is just as awesome in the winter as rv’ing in the summer. here are some tips on how to rv in the winter. table of contents prep your rv first keep the water out! holiday where there is natural sun cover your rv screen door with thin plastic keep yourself warm! prep your rv first most rvs are designed to handle the tough climes of the winter, but to make sure your rv is up to scratch, ensure that your mobile vehicle is well insulated, so you can stay cosy in your home away from home. check the window sills and access all areas to keep cold drafts out and empty your water tanks before your trip. add about a quart of antifreeze to each tank to protect the dump valves from freezing. also, test and clean out your furnace to remove all dirt and debris before you set off. keep the water out! i don’t mean go thirsty during your trip – a dry rv is a happy rv. consider investing in a dehumidifier to prevent mould on the walls. don’t forget that heat and confined spaces lead to humidity and condensation, so ensure you keep the wet out. also, apply antifreeze to the pipes, as mentioned above, too prevent burst water pipes too. holiday where there is natural sun try and seek out a destination with as much exposure to the sun as possible. the heat of the sun’s rays will warm up your rv during the day and so you can give your propane heater a bit of a break. cover your rv screen door with thin plastic a great way to ‘winterise’ your rv is by adding a thin layer of plastic, so you can keep your rv door open during the day to let the sun rays in, but keep the plastic screen door closed to keep the cold out. keep yourself warm! the best way to keep warm while you’re rv’ing in the winter is to get moving! layer up with jumpers and jackets, so you can use less of your heater as possible. however, if you’re still cold, then exercising is the best way to get the blood pumping. all the basic exercises work here, i.e. star jumps, sit-ups, push-ups and running on the spot. you’ll soon turn your heater off because you’ll be sweating! if against all odds you will still need a heater, then i’d recommend getting a lasko, which doesn’t get in the way of your exercising! the most important rule about how to rv in the winter is to just enjoy yourself any time of the year. if you follow the simple guidelines above, then you can spend your time during your holiday enjoying the sights with your loved ones. some of the most beautiful views will be on the way to your destination, so keep your eyes open and enjoy a nice cosy holiday with your family and your rv this winter. what are your top tips for rv’ing in the winter? please share with us in the comments below. click here for more articles about how to enjoy your rv click here for more holiday-related articles click here for more winter-related articles click here for more articles on travelling with the family. *collaborative feature post* *this post contains affiliate links. i receive a commission when you click on an affiliate link at no extra cost to you. thank you for your support.* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:holidaysrvrv in the wintertravelwinter related posts my top ten tips for travelling with tiri... keeping the kids entertained during trav... avoid holiday disasters – a guide ... the best holiday destinations for new pa... quick and simple fashion tips for busy m... tips for travelling with children how to avoid damaging your family car th... 10 reasons why you should rent an rv thi... top 3 great things i want to do with the... benefits of using public transport over ... does your personality affect the way you... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sard... sharm el-sheikh – a top class thomson ho... how to keep warm with the kids this wint... 10 winter art projects for your children top seasonal family friendly holidays wh... the best road trips in europe for the fa... 6 reasons why you should take your baby ... 7 reasons why you should take the family... how to prepare for a baby – the first-ye... a vitamin d supplement a day help keeps ... go camping with the family this summer w... ghostly cork fun things to do with the kids over wint... how to enjoy a proper sit-down family me... 21 travel hacks you need to know this su... have you visited the winter wonderland y... summer car trips with the kids about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 6shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok