wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to create a question and answers site in wordpress how to create a question and answers site in wordpress last updated on april 25th, 2019 by editorial staff 267 shares share tweet share pin do you want to build an online question and answer community like stackoverflow or quora? question and answer websites are fun, highly engaging, and very helpful. these websites make money from user-generated content which makes them an easy to start online business. in this article, we will show you how to easily create a question and answers site in wordpress without any programming skills. you can create a whole site dedicated to q & a, a single faq page, or add a question and answer section to your existing wordpress site. gettings started with question and answers website to start your own question and answers website, you will need the following items. a domain name (this is your website’s address on the internet. example, wpbeginner.com) a web hosting account (this is where your website’s files are stored. all websites need web hosting). question and answers add-on for wordpress a domain name costs around $14.99 / year and web hosting prices start from $7.99 per month (usually paid annually). now, this is not a small amount if you are just starting out. luckily, bluehost has agreed to offer wpbeginner users discount on web hosting and a free domain name. basically, you can get started for $2.75 per month. → click here to claim this exclusive bluehost offer ← bluehost is one of the largest hosting companies in the world and an officially recommended wordpress hosting provider. after you have purchased hosting, they will automatically install wordpress for you. you can also do it yourself, by following our complete wordpress installation tutorial. once you have wordpress installed, you can move on to installing a question and answers plugin. wordpress plugins are extensions that allow you to add new features to your website. that being said, let’s take a look at how to set up questions and answers website in wordpress. setting up your question and answers site the first thing you need to do is install and activate the dw question answers plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, the plugin creates two new pages in your wordpress site: dwqa questions – this page will display all questions. dwqa ask question – this page contains a form where users can ask new questions. the title and urls of these pages contain dwqa which looks bad. let’s change this. head over to pages » all pages and click quick edit link below each page. this will show page details for quick editing. you can remove the dwqa from page title and slug fields and then click on the ‘update’ button to save your changes. the next thing you need to do is to allow user registration on your website. this can be achieved by going to settings » general page. scroll down to the ‘membership’ section and check the box next to anyone can register. make sure that you choose subscriber as the new user default role. now that user registration is enabled, let’s configure the plugin settings. start by going to questions » settings page. under the general tab, you can configure the basic plugin settings. first, you need to choose the page that will display the ask question form and another page that will list all questions. you will notice that the default pages are already selected here. if you want to display some other pages, then you need to copy and paste the shortcodes shown on the settings page to those pages. under the question settings section, you can select the number of questions you want to be displayed on the questions page. you can also enable ‘moderation’ by requiring each question to be manually approved. the plugin also comes with built-in spam protection features. you can enable the akismet anti-spam feature and provide the akismet api key. you can also use recaptcha to protect your question and answer forum from automated spam bots. don’t forget to click on the ‘save changes’ button to store your settings. next, you need to switch to the ‘email’ tab. from here you can upload your logo and modify the email notifications sent by the plugin. after that, switch to the ‘permissions’ tab. from here you can set up user role permissions. by default, the plugin allows administrators and editors to read, post, write and edit all questions and answers. the plugin also allows anonymous users to ask questions. you can change that from permissions settings. once you are satisfied with plugin settings, don’t forget to click on the ‘save changes’ button to save your changes. managing your question answer site you can view all questions added to your site by visiting dw q&a » all questions page. as an administrator, you can edit or delete any questions submitted by any user on your site. you can also add question categories since users do not have permissions to create categories. however, users can add question tags when submitting a question on your site. to understand the difference check out our guide on categories vs tags. the front end features of your q&a site dw question answers is designed to work with most wordpress themes. this is how your questions page will look: questions can be searched or sorted by status, categories, views, and answers. your users post questions, submit answers, and add their own comments. users can also follow questions by clicking on the star icon next to each question. the user who has asked the question and the site administrator has the ability to mark a question as resolved. users can also vote for answers, choose the best answer, and add comments to the questions and answers as well. this provides a much deeper interaction platform for your users to engage in discussions around the question topic. this plugin is free and performs very well during our tests. there are several question and answer wordpress themes out there, but those lock you into using that theme forever. the advantage of using a plugin is that you can switch your theme without losing any data. we hope this article helped you build your own q&a community on your wordpress site. you may also want to see our guide on how to increase traffic on your new wordpress website. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 267 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to start your own podcast (step by step) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 70 commentsleave a reply muneeburrehman says: aug 22, 2019 at 2:24 am hi, which theme we use for this plugin…? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 22, 2019 at 9:30 am a specific theme is not required to use this plugin reply malay says: jul 16, 2019 at 5:34 am after activating the plugin i am only getting dw question answer page. the dwqa ask question page is not reflecting. what am i mising over here? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 16, 2019 at 11:04 am if i’m understanding your question correctly, you may need to clear your cache if it is a display issue. if you mean you’re not able to list the questions then you would need to reach out to the plugin’s support. reply sam says: jun 18, 2019 at 9:05 am how can i promote my questions and answers website. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 18, 2019 at 10:36 am for increasing your traffic you could take a look at our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/how-to-increase-your-blog-traffic/ reply brij bhushan says: may 25, 2019 at 7:17 am this article is very useful and informative …………..your way of writing is really easy and understandable i learn so much from your blog thanks for sharing such an informative article reply wpbeginner support says: may 28, 2019 at 1:44 pm glad you like our content reply bob says: apr 26, 2019 at 9:46 am why this form of q&a versus a traditional discussion forum such as bbpress? what are the pros and cons of each? bob reply wpbeginner support says: apr 26, 2019 at 11:14 am the main bonus of using the plugin from this article is the option to upvote specific answers while a forum is not required to answer questions. it is personal preference for what to use for what you’re trying to achieve. reply askedon says: apr 25, 2019 at 2:11 pm isn’t there any other way of creating such website? i mean without the use of a plugin? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 26, 2019 at 10:41 am while you could make something similar without using plugins, it would require a large number of customizations to make it a simple process for your users which the plugin allows. reply brij bhushan says: mar 22, 2019 at 1:14 am such a more valuable information. i also read your all blogs. this is awesome!! i’ve always enjoyed reading your blog. keep writing such kind of info on your page. i am really impressed with this type of writing. thanks for sharing with us. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 22, 2019 at 10:17 am glad you like our articles reply ian says: feb 11, 2019 at 5:54 am this is helpful but when i generate a new question the formatting goes all wrong. i have a transparent header and menu and because the questions is generated on a white background i lose this visibility. likewise as i edit a question page to make it look right as soon as i generate another question the format reverts back. how do i overcome this? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 12, 2019 at 11:31 am you would want to reach out to your specific theme to see if this is a conflict between your theme and the plugin. reply anna says: feb 1, 2019 at 7:01 am hello, i would like to enable the option of adding comments and answers without a need to be logged in and without the requirement for an email address. how can i do it? right now to add anything person needs to give the email. thanks in advance. anna reply wpbeginner support says: feb 1, 2019 at 10:55 am you would want to go into the plugin’s settings to allow anonymous posting or comments reply graham fb says: jan 29, 2019 at 6:13 pm i use a site that the questions asked come in the form of an email. i know postie plugin can convert the email to a post. can any of the q and a plugins accept” questions by email ? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 30, 2019 at 10:59 am we don’t have a specific one we would recommend at the moment but this method does give an option for your users to submit the questions through your site. reply arti sharma says: jan 11, 2019 at 3:27 am very nice collections of question answer sites, i have found here best question answer site over my search experience. and also its great use for my question’s answer,thanks for sharing such a wonderful sites. thank you very much. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 11, 2019 at 1:15 pm glad our content could help answer your questions reply atul says: sep 7, 2017 at 11:01 am sir i can create a one website that is number of user ask it question.and ans any user.please tell me about requirement to popular website. reply sandeep pujare says: aug 15, 2017 at 2:38 pm i did not find any option to post the answer as an admin. are they have any? reply adamu malte says: nov 22, 2017 at 8:50 am you can post your anser by visiting your answer questions page link reply vikash says: aug 13, 2017 at 2:19 am its not seo friendly plugin even youst seo is not helpful to index in google of questions. i have convert my bbpress tp dwqa but i think its big mistake. its five days gone and there is 112 new questions but no any indexed in google but with bbpress any questions was indexed within 24-48 hrs. now any one can help me the way to convert dwqa to bbpress again? i am not a coder and its very difficult for me please any one help me :(:( reply margie says: nov 29, 2017 at 6:23 am hi vikash did you receive any help in the end? i am trying to integrate buddypress with dw questions & answers but the recommended code include_once get_template_directory().’/buddypress/bp-custom.php’; is reporting errors. reply asif shaik says: dec 6, 2016 at 4:19 am does this plugin support media upload reply raju says: jul 5, 2016 at 11:59 am i had a website name. now i want to create a page for the students where all question regarding maths, especially for engineering and other numerical questions well be in solved form.. can i use this plugin for numerical question or can i put html codes using this plugins? pls explain me . thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 6, 2016 at 1:43 am please contact plugin author for support. reply zain javed says: apr 29, 2016 at 6:34 am hi sir , can you please tell me some good free themes with this plugin to work . thank you , zain reply wpbeginner support says: may 1, 2016 at 6:10 pm it should work great with default themes as well. also check out these 43 beautiful free wordpress blog themes. reply dh danny says: apr 15, 2016 at 12:52 pm how to design my own template for questions and answers…? reply ajay rathaur says: may 9, 2015 at 6:15 pm hi, as i have checked on this plugin that user can login with the wordpress account only. is it possible i can modify it. so that people can login with their gmail, yahoo and other mail account also. reply wpbeginner support says: may 10, 2015 at 7:45 am you can try login with facebook. reply syed ismail shah says: oct 19, 2014 at 6:43 am i want to create a website for the students where all question regarding maths, statistics and other numerical questions well be in solved form.. can i use this plugin for numercal question or can i put html codes using this plugins? reply wpbeginner staff says: jun 11, 2014 at 12:05 am @designwall thanks for dropping by reply designwall says: jun 10, 2014 at 4:07 am hi everyone, thanks wpbeginner for this awesome article about our dw q&a plugin. we really appreciate it. @everyone who is using our plugin and facing any issue or having questions, please feel free to raise it at our support page: http://www.designwall.com/question/ our support staff will answer all the questions and issues. thanks a lot cheers, reply harsha sampath says: jun 3, 2014 at 7:59 am toolbar not work. please help me reply raunek says: may 15, 2014 at 4:59 am does this plugin affect website loading time? reply hiren patel says: apr 16, 2014 at 9:41 am hello, is there any way to show particular page related question and answer using wp-answers plugin. pls advice thanks. reply younes says: apr 11, 2014 at 12:25 am hello…my friend tanx a lot for this post… vote option in local working perfectly but in really host dont appear i disabled all plugin but vote dont appear please help me reply hussain says: mar 31, 2014 at 4:35 am please give me link how to set notification setting… with image reply christian trejo says: mar 6, 2014 at 2:10 pm awesome! i was going to spend $124 in the wp-answers pro plugin but i installed this and it is awesome. any idea about how can i translate it? thanks reply ra ek says: feb 22, 2014 at 7:38 pm dwqa has dwqa in the “dwqa questions” literal. where can this be changed? i didn’t find it in the php code. reply micheal crols says: feb 19, 2014 at 10:57 pm i love this plugin very much. very awesome! reply nicola says: feb 8, 2014 at 11:53 am can i allow anonymous users to post a question without registering? reply marian says: feb 5, 2014 at 4:08 am a very good post! i just instaled dwqa plugin, and i came here from a google search ” what theme should i use with dwqa plugin” i read the all post, i read it how to instal from dw guide original page, but tour post is better then their post :)). good job. checking my site http:// just kiding, this isn’t a spam comment :). is my feedback reply sai says: feb 2, 2014 at 10:42 am does wordpress.com support downloading plugins and installing them? i saw that it doesn’t. does that mean all the plugins that are mentioned are for wordpress.org? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 2, 2014 at 5:43 pm yes all the plugins mentioned here are for wordpress.org, please check out our guide on self hosted wordpress.org vs. wordpress.com reply ahsan karim says: jan 28, 2014 at 2:09 am hello sir thanks well done reply kjetil says: jan 27, 2014 at 11:52 am thanks for this info what is the main benefits with this (or this kind of) plugin compared with a forum plugin (like simplepress) – apart that q&a obviously is simpler to setup? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 27, 2014 at 2:09 pm it depends on how you use a forum plugin. if you want to use it to create q&a site, then you would need to set it up in a way so that your users can quickly understand what you want them to do. using a q&a specific plugin takes the guess work out of the equation and provides a better user experience. reply charlie sasser says: jan 26, 2014 at 9:37 am i have also been looking for something like this. have not installed yet, but it wasn’t clear if q&a could be “viewed” without a login. i would want everyone to view the information but have a login to ask a question or answer. could this be integrated with a plugin that allows login via facebook, twitter, acccount, etc.? reply arup ghosh says: jan 24, 2014 at 12:31 am great share i was looking something for free. there is a theme by wp-answer.com which allows importing of question and answers from yahoo! answers. reply andy says: jan 23, 2014 at 10:33 pm how does this integrate with paid membership pro? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 25, 2014 at 6:18 pm we tested it on default wordpress install. check out plugin’s support forum to find out if it has any compatibility issue. reply anna coffin says: jan 23, 2014 at 8:17 pm this plug in is perfect for my site. i followed your directions but the pages are not appearing on my site? any suggestions on what might be wrong? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 25, 2014 at 6:19 pm you can also create your own pages. simply create two new pages and then go to plugin settings and use one page as ask question page and the other page for listing questions. reply shamsher says: jan 23, 2014 at 10:44 am very informative.. reply mark h says: jan 22, 2014 at 2:32 pm i had a q&a page on our site for a while (plugin from wpmu) but it was constantly hit with spam. how does this plugin deal with it? unchecking “anyone can register?” then what? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 22, 2014 at 3:57 pm according to plugin website they will soon release an update to the plugin which will enable captcha support. reply jin matsumoto says: feb 13, 2014 at 3:15 am hi mark, designwall team has updated the plugin and support recaptcha from google. reply erik says: jan 22, 2014 at 1:54 pm it also appears you need to use a redirect plugin.. after you submit a question you get a 404 page. reply erik says: jan 22, 2014 at 2:03 pm ok, my mess up you need to leave permalinks at default. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 23, 2014 at 3:56 pm no ,you don’t. just update your permalink settings. reply debra dalgleish says: jan 27, 2014 at 4:44 pm i was getting that 404 page too, and had to add forward slashes at the start of the permalinks. reply michael crols says: feb 13, 2014 at 4:24 am @debra dalgleish just go to dashboard >> q&a >> settings -> permalink -> save changes. you do not have to change anything just press “save changes”button at the bottom of the screen and the 404 issue will be resolved. reply erik says: jan 22, 2014 at 1:42 pm it would be nice if you could remove the questions category and tags option. just have the title and question. reply bob dunn says: jan 22, 2014 at 1:31 pm wow, perfect timing, as i have been debating between a forum and this kind of a plugin for a new site. this helped make my decision after installing and testing, i did find a couple minor bugs with the theme i am using, but this plugin is in it’s first version i believe, and that is bound to happen. overall it looks great. also, going through the support questions it sounds as if they are working on some more specific features as people ask questions or find issues. i see a great future for this plugin… cheers! reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) media temple coupon get 20% off on all media temple hosting plans. all in one seo pro coupon get 50% off all in one seo pack pro, the most popular wordpress seo plugin in the market. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.