home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to write copy promotion by matt press every business uses words in order to influence consumers. i’m a copywriter. i sell words for a living, but i’ve got a confession to make. throughout my schooling, i’ve always loved reading and writing. as time went on, i headed to university to study some more and the aim was always to write for a living. to become a copywriter. but guess what? my academic years didn’t prepare me for writing business copy. not in the slightest, in fact. i should be pleased that i’ve accomplished my goal, but something’s always nagged away at me. it rather feels that i learnt most of my copywriting skills ‘on the job’. when finally tasked with writing words that must motivate and move people in some commercial sense, i found things tricky at first. after graduating, i landed a copywriting job at sky, the huge media giant in the uk. naively, i didn’t realise this at the time, but there’s a world of difference between writing wordy dissertations and crafting compelling copy. it didn’t take me long to work out that you don’t need much of a writing background in order to be a good writer, something that i won’t be telling my parents anytime soon. whether we’re talking about writing business copy or penning a novel, there’s no qualification that will guarantee that you’ll be able to write effectively. so, what do you need? i believe there are 5 core attributes that you need to possess to become a worthy wordsmith. in no particular order, here they are… skill 1: being a detective every good content plan starts with a lot of research. every successful writer knows a lot about the audience that they’re writing for. the more information you have about your target audience, the better. are they male or female? young or old? do they speak formally or informally? before you write anything, you should create a reader persona. after all, as the copywriting cliché goes, it’s always much easier to write for one person than it is to write for many. skill 2: being true to yourself good writing isn’t about making people reach for a dictionary. instead, it’s about using a natural voice that represents your personality. as soon as a writer tries to be something they’re not, problems happen. they pick out words that jar any rhythm for the reader and disrupt the flow of a piece. by contrast, you can tell good writing a mile off. think what you like about the horror genre, but stephen king is a master at creating epic page-turners. he himself referred to writing as a “form of telepathy”. and basically, if you’re not true to yourself, you’re not going to be able to plant the right picture in your readers’ minds. skill 3: being able to fail more often than not, good writing is about adopting a certain mindset over an arsenal of writing skills. and for starters, that means being able to fail. no one writes perfectly at the first time of asking. absolutely no one. every writer should strive to create a base from which to work from. you’ve probably heard the phrase ‘crappy first draft’, but the sentiment rings true. when you’re stuck for ideas and suffering from writer’s block, don’t be too hard on yourself. just get writing. most of the time, you’ll write your way out of your stupor. and the worst case scenario is that you’ll be crafting the meat and bones of your work. with any form or writing, it’s vital that you give yourself the ability and the opportunity to make mistakes, because that’s the only way that you’ll be truly creative. skill 4: being able to edit your work well productivity can be an issue for many writers, so when you’ve finally finished a piece of work, the temptation is to walk away and think the job is done. that’s perfectly understandable… … but you still need to proofread your project. after all, it’s often the small details that make the biggest difference. what should you be looking for? well, obviously any spelling or grammatical mistakes. in addition, seek out any words or phrases that stand out. read what you’ve written out loud. if your copy doesn’t sound natural, then something needs to be tweaked. just remember that good editing is about removing words, not adding them. the trouble is, this is easier said than done. being ruthless with your copy is hard work, but this is where you’ll reap the rewards. set yourself a strict word count and remember that every sentence has one job: to get the next one read. delete any rogue words that aren’t pulling their weight. skill 5: being able to understand the human brain finally, good writers understand human psychology. they know how we think, how we feel and what motivates us to act. in business, big brands manipulate the way we engage with their content in ways that you might not even notice. a comma here, some white space there… … it all seems so random. but it’s not. as complex as they are, our brains are actually quite predictable. the more you study psychology, the better you’ll be at creating content that triggers emotions. and, no matter what you’re writing, that’s the whole point, right? practicing convincing sales copy: spend 15 minutes defining the typical persona of someone who would be interested in reading your work. think about what motivates them. consider how they speak in normal, day-to-day life. when you’re finished, post up your persona in the comments section. tweet64 pin share38 102 shares related posts how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? by laura tong about the author matt press matt press is an experienced copywriter who has written words for some of the uk’s top brands, such as sky, three and vodafone. he now helps copywriters find work and improve their skills. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >