home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library holidays travel prevnext how to make the most of your family holiday with the kids leyla preston fri 9th mar 2018 3shares share tweet pin i love a good holiday with the kids, but if we don’t plan our family holiday before we get to our destination, then we normally end up with a huge nightmare rather than a treasured memory. there is so much to think about before setting off on holiday, from ensuring the passports are valid and up-to-date, to ensuring the hotel is kid-friendly, so the children won’t get bored. so, i’ve compiled some tips on how to make the most of your family holiday with the kids without needing to break the bank or acquire any new grey hairs in the process. it’s all about planning and preparation, so here we go! table of contents plan for a family holiday with the kids check the passports travel in style in a camper van or look for all-inclusive packages pack suitcases smartly pack lots of snacks – i mean lots! ensure accommodation is family friendly too plan for a family holiday with the kids that’s a given, yes, but i mean, actually plan for a holiday with the kids. it’s all well and good dreaming about spas and lounging by the beach, whilst you’re sipping on a mojito, but if you want to have a relaxing and enjoyable holiday, you need to think of your children’s needs first. consider family-friendly hotels, with tonnes of things for the kids to do, i.e. kiddie-friendly activities, family restaurants and, more importantly, child-safe accommodation. you don’t need to plan every single activity to a ‘t’, but having a general idea of how and where you want the holiday to go, will aid you to plan for certain milestones, like all-inclusive flight and holiday packages (or separate flights and accommodation details), as well as where to eat, top places to visit in that destination and the flight back. check the passports this i cannot stress enough. take it from us when my husband and 4-year-old son had to travel to switzerland by car alone because my then 5-year old son’s passport had expired. i ended up travelling by plane with my eldest the next day. but, all this could have been avoided if we had just checked his passport before. so, please check your passports way in advance. travel in style in a camper van or look for all-inclusive packages think about your favoured method of travel. we recently drove all the way to switzerland, which was great fun because we saved quite a bit of money and we could bring whatever we wanted in our suitcases. plus, it was a summer car trip, so we weren’t freezing in the car or getting all too uncomfortable. however, it had taken us 13 hours to get there and 13 hours back, so we ended up stopping off a lot and stretching our legs. if you have a vw van, perhaps a better way to enjoy a road trip is to convert your van into a campervan. you can still enjoy the beauty of a scenic road trip, but with the comfort of beds, kitchen equipment and even toilet facilities. a much better way to enjoy a 26-hour round trip! to find the best van for conversion, sherwood campers can provide a number of services for a reasonable fee, so you can enjoy #vanlife in style! if you want to spend more time on holiday and less time on the travel, a flight trip to switzerland is only about 90 minutes. so, sometimes, an all-inclusive package that covers the flights and hotel, may just be easier to manage, especially with young kids in tow. i recommend shopping around and looking for great deals on flights and hotels, as well as all-in-one packages. if you’re looking for cheap places to stay there are tons of great booking hotel promotions on the net if you take the time to look for them. if you already have your accommodation sorted, skyscanner compares prices and finds you the cheapest flights for wherever you want to go. our next stop is malaysia, as the country hosts tons of great deals for the family to enjoy. we’re looking to book a hotel in jb on traveloka, which currently has tons of deals that we want to enjoy off-peak right now. pack suitcases smartly we recently had a scare and my suitcase went missing. i managed to get it back at the airport, thankfully, but it scared me into thinking about packing smart. now we divide all our clothes between 4 suitcases so that if one suitcase does go missing, one of us will not be completely left high and dry without anything for the holiday. pack lots of snacks – i mean lots! snacks keep kids busy, so make sure you have them in abundance. try not to offer snacks that are high in sugar, otherwise, you may see a huge energy outburst, followed by a sugar crash and irritable children. great travel-friendly snacks can include cheese strings, pretzels, peanut butter on celery or breadsticks, mini pancakes and wraps. you also save a lot of money, as buying food on the plane or at the airport can come with a premium fee. plus, you will know what goes into your food and, therefore, offer healthier and simpler snacks. don’t forget to bring lots of water too! ensure accommodation is family friendly too we booked 2 rooms at a nearby hotel in north cyprus once and failed to mention that the rooms needed to be child-friendly. instead, they had housed us right by a swimming pool and the rooms were covered with marble flooring and stairs parted by metal gates that a child could easily slip through and fall to the hard floor. it was not child-friendly at all! we managed to switch rooms, but the palaver that we had created because we had not considered mentioning that we had young children could easily have been avoided. make this very clear to the accommodation owners, so they know to look for child-friendly rooms. ensure that family-friendly hotels are also walking distance from nearby children’s activities or an outdoor playground which will keep the kids busy when you want to lounge about and relax. you can even try something different and look into ice hotels if you’re planning a winter holiday. igloo-style rooms are a growing trend now and can be an extra fun experience for the kids. whichever you choose, make sure the room has easy access to all the child-friendly amenities, so you’re not dragging your kids back and forth. these are just a mere few tips on how to make the most of your family holiday with the kids. for more travel related posts, please visit our travel section here. if you have any tips on how you maximise holiday fun, please do share with us in the comments below. *collaborative featured post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:family holidayhotelskids related posts tutakids’ black nebbati coat review plus... tips to prepare for emergency dental car... jamie’s italian restaurant review benefits of using public transport over ... 7 reasons why you should take the family... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sard... family dental services with a smile royal lancaster london hotel review top five family holiday destinations to ... 5 reasons why you should holiday in the ... our family fun package stay at the arch ... the right way to host a kids’ slee... fun things to do with the kids that don’... why disneyland paris should be the numbe... avoid holiday disasters – a guide ... ways you can save money on flight ticket... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 3shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok