wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials » how to create an online marketplace using wordpress how to create an online marketplace using wordpress last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 638 shares share tweet share pin do you want to create an online marketplace using wordpress? an online marketplace website allows users to buy and sell items by setting up their own mini-stores within your ecommerce platform. it allows you to make money by sharing your online marketplace platform. due to low overhead costs, it has become a popular online business idea. in this article, we will show you how to easily create an online marketplace using wordpress without spending thousands of dollars. what do you need to start an online marketplace using wordpress? first, you need to make sure that you are using the right website platform, and since you’re reading this article, you’re in the right place. there are two types of wordpress available: wordpress.com vs wordpress.org. one is a limited blog hosting service while the other is known as the self-hosted wordpress which you’ve likely heard tons about. see the full comparison between wordpress.com vs wordpress.org. we recommend using wordpress.org because it gives you the freedom and access to all wordpress features out of the box. you will need the following items to build an online marketplace website using self-hosted wordpress. a domain name (for example, wpbeginner.com) web hosting account (this is where your website’s files are stored) ssl certificate (to securely accept online payments) woocommerce (best wordpress ecommerce addon) online marketplace addon the entire setup can take up to 40 minutes, and we will walk you through every step one by one. ready? let’s get started. step 1. setting up your ecommerce platform the first step is to buy a domain name and a web hosting account. you don’t just need a web hosting, but you will need a service that specializes in woocommerce hosting because this is the software that we will be using as our ecommerce platform. typically a domain name costs $14.99/year, web hosting 7.99/month, and ssl certificate 69.99/year. now, this seems like a lot of money if you are just starting out. fortunately, bluehost an officially recommended wordpress and woocommerce hosting provider has agreed to offer our users free domain + ssl and discount on their cloud wordpress hosting. basically, you can get started for $6.95 / month. → click here to claim this exclusive bluehost offer ← once you have purchased hosting, then follow our step by step tutorial on how to start an online store for complete setup instructions. you would now have a wordpress website with woocommerce installed on it. however, by default woocommerce assumes that your website is a single vendor website, so it is not possible for other users to add their own products and services to your website. let’s change this. step 2. turn your woocommerce site into an online marketplace first, you need to install and activate the wc vendors plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. wc vendors is a marketplace solution for woocommerce. it simplifies building a marketplace website by turning woocommerce into a multi-vendor platform. each vendor can sell their products while you keep full control of the website as the marketplace owner. you can choose your own business model, payment methods, product types, and more. upon activation, head over to wc vendors » settings page to configure marketplace settings. first, you will see the general items. you need to make sure that the ‘vendor registration’ box is checked to allow users to sign up as vendor on your website. you can review other items on the page and then click on the ‘save changes’ button to store your settings. next, you need to click on the ‘commission’ tab to set a commission rate for vendors across your website. this is the amount you’ll pay to the vendor for each sale. note: the global commission rate can be overridden for individual vendors and products. next, you need to click on the ‘capabilities’ tab to set sitewide rules for vendors. this part of settings comes with three sections. the general capabilities include allowing vendors to view and edit products and orders. the default options would work for most sites. next, switch to the ‘products’ section and from here you can select which type of products vendors can add. for example, you can limit vendors to only add digital downloads or a physical product. you can also select which data vendors can see and use on the ‘add products’ page. lastly, switch to the ‘orders’ section under ‘capabilities’ to select what information vendors can see about the orders. after setting up the capabilities, it is time to set up marketplace related pages on your website. switch to the ‘display’ tab under plugin settings to set up pages. you can simply go to pages » add new to create a new page for each item and add the shortcode displayed in the settings to the page’s content area. after creating all the pages and adding shortcodes to them, you can select them here. below the pages, you will also find ‘store settings’ option on the same page. this where you can select a prefix to use in vendor shop urls, allow them to set custom headers for their shop pages, and use html in shop description. next step is to set up payments for your vendors. most marketplace websites set a minimum threshold for their vendors and pay them on a monthly or weekly basis. we recommend using manual payments to vendors as this gives customers enough time to request refunds or give feedback about the products. however, if you want to payment withdrawal system for vendors, then you can buy premium add-ons. wc vendors has add-ons available for stripe, mangopay, escrow, and manual payouts. depending on the payment gateway you choose, you will need to set up a payment gateway by entering your api keys. don’t forget to click on the ‘save changes’ button to store your settings. now that wc vendors is ready, let’s set up woocommerce for a multi-vendor environment. step 3. enable account management in woocommerce first you need to visit woocommerce » settings page and click on the ‘accounts’ tab. from here you need to check the boxes next to customer registration option. don’t forget to save your changes. step 4. setting up navigation menus now that your multi-vendor marketplace setup is finished. it is time to make it easy for your users to find their way around your website. to do that, go to appearance » menus page. from here you need to add your user account and checkout pages to the navigation menu. don’t forget to click on the ‘save menu’ button to store your changes. for more detailed instructions, see our guide on how to add navigation menus in wordpress. if you don’t have a my account page, then simply create a new page in wordpress and add the following shortcode in the post editor . [woocommerce_my_account] step 5. testing your marketplace website your online marketplace website is now ready for testing. you can visit your website in a new browser window and create a new account by clicking on the my account link at the top. from here, both customers and vendors can log in to their accounts as well as create a new account. once users create a new account, you will receive an email notification. if you are unable to receive email notifications, then take a look at our guide on how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. you can also view new vendor applications by visiting users » all users page. you will see all new vendor requests as ‘pending vendor’, and you can approve or deny applications by clicking the link under their username. once approved, these vendors can log in to their accounts and add their products by visiting their vendor dashboard. they can also view their orders and sales reports. the first thing your vendors need to do is to set up their shop settings by clicking on the ‘store settings’ link. depending on the payment methods you set up, they will need to provide their paypal or stripe email address to receive payments. they will also be able to provide bank account information for direct manual payments. once a vendor adds a new product, you will get a notification email and see an icon next to the products menu. you can then edit a product, approve it, or delete it. your shop page will clearly show the products sold by vendor’s shop name. step 6. growing your online marketplace website first, you may want to choose a design for your marketplace website. wordpress comes with thousands of free and paid themes but not all of them are ecommerce ready. see our pick of the best woocommerce themes to find a suitable theme for your marketplace platform. after that, you would want to add new features to your website. for example, making it a multi-vendor auction site or a membership community. you would want to track which products are getting more traffic and which vendors are bringing more users. for that you will need to enable customer tracking in woocommerce on your website. the biggest hurdle in growing any ecommerce website is abandoned cart sales. learn how to recover abandoned cart sales like a pro to increase your profits. we hope this article helped you learn how to create an online marketplace using wordpress. you may also want to see our ultimate woocommerce seo guide to get search traffic to your website. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 638 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 63 commentsleave a reply marius vetrici says: feb 19, 2020 at 2:01 pm what about split payments? in some countries, like the us, you have to use split payments for legal compliance. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 20, 2020 at 9:43 am the plugin does have tools for split payments. if you reach out to their support they should let you know the current options available. reply daniel forrest says: oct 1, 2019 at 9:21 pm hello! i’m looking to build a marketplace where i only receive money from a vendor when they make a sale. will wc vendors and/or wc allow me to do that? i understood from your article that wc vendors is not set up in this way. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 2, 2019 at 10:03 am from what it sounds like you’re wanting wc vendors should be what you are looking for reply obarayese dhikrullah says: sep 27, 2019 at 4:05 pm this is great. we need a review on all the multi-vendor plugins to known which is better. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: sep 30, 2019 at 9:55 am thank you for your recommendation, we will certainly look into the options available. reply an says: aug 14, 2019 at 11:37 am how many vendors could be allowed when creating website using wordpress? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 15, 2019 at 9:48 am unless we hear otherwise, an unlimited number reply s hassan says: aug 6, 2019 at 2:27 pm hi many thanks for this amazing article. it is very heloful and inspiring. i would like to crate a multi-vendor marketplace but without the payment option. on the buy / add to basket button in the product page in my site, the vendors add the link to the product page on their own websiite and then buying and payment happens in the vendor’s site. is it the right wordpress template for my site or would you recommend a different one? many thanks hassan reply wpbeginner support says: aug 7, 2019 at 9:58 am for what it sounds like you’re wanting, you may want to take a look at: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-build-an-amazon-affiliate-store-using-wordpress/ reply ruby knowles says: aug 4, 2019 at 10:40 am hi, is it possible for users to be both buyers and sellers all under one account? reply wpbeginner support says: aug 5, 2019 at 11:31 am unless i hear otherwise you should be able to do that reply solange says: jul 29, 2019 at 3:03 pm hello, thank you so much for this amazing article. i feel that i am ready to start creating my marketplace website. however, i would like to create it to serve people that do not speak english. do i have to create it and have a plugin to translate it? i would have to translate it by myself once the language i want to translate is my first language? or, is this info only possible for english users/speakers? thank you in advance, solange reply wpbeginner support says: jul 30, 2019 at 9:35 am you can change the language to the language you want your site to be and shouldn’t have any issues reply carole says: jul 25, 2019 at 4:41 am hello. i am wanting to set up an online marketplace. i read this article which is really helpful but as far as payments go, i don’t want to take or charge a commission. is there any wordpress plugin or theme i could use that would allow me to take an annual fee from the sellers and add give them the ability to link paypal to their own pages so customers can pay them directly? a bit like amazon etc. thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 25, 2019 at 11:21 am you may want to reach out to wc vendors to see about options available for that reply tafida says: jul 11, 2019 at 2:57 pm please i will like to know how much in dollars currency it will approximately cost me to build a good market place from scratch to finish. i want to do it myself without hiring and developer. thank you very much reply wpbeginner support says: jul 12, 2019 at 11:28 am for understanding the costs, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/how-much-does-it-cost-to-build-a-wordpress-website/ reply fatima says: jul 8, 2019 at 11:42 pm hi, great article, thank you ! i want to create a market place without payment ( put service users and providers in contact with each other for free) and i want to know if this platform is suitable for my needs. please help me, i am beginner ! thanfs reply wpbeginner support says: jul 9, 2019 at 1:26 pm for what it sounds like you’re wanting, you would want to take a look at a business directory plugin: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/best-directory-plugins-for-wordpress/ reply jamie says: jul 4, 2019 at 12:18 pm hi there, thanks for the great writeup of our plugin. we are continually adding new features and pride ourselves on timely support for all our users free and pro. we are in the planning stages of some major changes to our product to make it even better! if you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact us through our website or on the wordpress.org forums. cheers, jamie founder, lead developer wc vendors marketplace reply ann says: jun 7, 2019 at 1:24 pm hi, thank you for this post. i am having issues with setting up my marketplace. the vendor registration seems to be missing on the account page. is there a way to fix this? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jun 10, 2019 at 11:19 am if you’ve enabled it in the options then you may want to reach out to the wc vendors support to ensure there isn’t an error with the plugin and they should be able to assist. reply steve b says: may 18, 2019 at 12:15 am is there a way for a visitor/customer to post a request on my marketplace? example: looking for a used gibson les paul. and then the vendors could get notified when there’s a request posted in their chosen category? reply wpbeginner support says: may 20, 2019 at 12:02 pm for that, you would need another plugin or tool for it to be available reply bruno says: may 9, 2019 at 1:09 am is it possible to apply a fee when the item is buyed thru this plugin? reply wpbeginner support says: may 9, 2019 at 11:40 am it would depend on the type of fee you’re attempting to add. if you reach out to woocommerce’s support with the specific setup you’re wanting they should be able to let you know reply shahzaib majeed says: may 2, 2019 at 1:13 am thank you for the beautiful info i have created my site by using your post. reply wpbeginner support says: may 2, 2019 at 10:46 am glad our guide could help reply mahmoud mirzaei says: apr 24, 2019 at 10:06 pm hi, i am after a professionally designed marketplace and want to invest big money on it. i want a marketplace just like branded ecommerce marketplaces. will the outcome be like them or i will need to hire someone to code it down? thanks, reply wpbeginner support says: apr 25, 2019 at 10:28 am it would depend on how much customization you’re wanting for your site for if you’d need help from a developer. reply patrick says: apr 17, 2019 at 8:27 am thanks a lot for this helpful post! i followed these steps. one question, in the “my account” page on the right side under “register” i can tick two checkboxes both of which say “undefined”. where do i define these? thank you in advance! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 17, 2019 at 11:25 am that should be defined by the plugin, if you reach out to the plugin’s support they should be able to help fix the issue. reply wasim akram says: mar 14, 2019 at 9:59 pm great advice, thanks reply wpbeginner support says: mar 18, 2019 at 2:50 pm you’re welcome reply dennis says: mar 8, 2019 at 4:08 am hi wpbeginner, how do the vendors get all the product and shipping information of the products bought? afterall, it isup to them to do the fullfilment including shipping. is that via the paypal checkout where this information is being sent? kind regards dennis reply wpbeginner support says: mar 8, 2019 at 11:17 am the plugin has a few shipping options that you can allow for the vendors, if you reach out to the plugin’s support they will let you know what options are available. reply antonio ramos says: nov 10, 2018 at 8:59 pm i installed wc vendors, i followed the steps for its configuration, but it is not shown as a submenu item in the woocommerce menu. how can i fix this? reply gregory says: nov 1, 2018 at 7:34 am i tried to plug in wc vendors but then i get a page that says “the plugin does not have a valid header.” reply wpbeginner support says: nov 1, 2018 at 6:26 pm hi gregory, try deleting and then reinstalling the plugin. reply gregory says: nov 1, 2018 at 7:31 am also theres nothing that says just wc vendors, the plugins say wc vendors marketplace and woocommerce multi vendor marketplace reply wpbeginner support says: nov 1, 2018 at 6:27 pm hey gregory, wc vendors marketplace is the plugin. reply charles oma says: sep 23, 2018 at 9:53 am great post. i would like to build a marketplace using this set up. but due to my location and for business reasons, i have a particular payment gateway i intend to use. they already have a plugin for woocommerce. is it possible to build a marketplace using this set up with my preferred payment gateway? i’m asking because i don’t understand your response to fatima where you said “woocommerce supports many payment gateways. however, wc vendors uses paypal adaptive payments and stripe”. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 24, 2018 at 7:14 pm hi charles, woocommerce can be used with dozens of payment providers. however, wc vendors only supports these two payment options to payout vendors. reply daniellah kachau says: sep 10, 2018 at 7:52 am after reading am very interested with online marketplace. i want to set up a online marketplace for pharmacy retailers and medical supplies wholesalers in my country papua new guinea. i want you help me set this up. how will i pay you for that service if you willing to help me in detail set up my online marketplace. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 10, 2018 at 4:07 pm hi daniellah, we do not offer consultancy services. if you want to hire someone to help you out, then you can look for a freelance developer on one of the popular freelancing websites like upwork or freelancer. reply sam says: sep 3, 2018 at 6:25 am hi, thanks for the article, is it posible to charge the vendor per product listing and a percentage of the sale value? i.e. like ebay many thanks sam reply kyeremeh says: aug 21, 2018 at 12:51 pm please do we have a free domain and hosting at blue host reply anh binh says: aug 19, 2018 at 7:37 am hello, i would like to build marketplace in loan industry to connect lender and borrower ( some kind of peer to peer lending but i don’t call money from lender, just want to connect both of them) and i will collect the fee from lender for each borrower successfully connected (fee will be collected via local bank account not paypal). what is the theme or plugin i should use for this case? of course i will use bluehost registered through your link for domain and hosting as their price is reasonable reply palash says: aug 4, 2018 at 9:43 am i have an question . i have a marketplace if i use this plugin and vendor start to upload products then those product will be go product page or i should make some others page for it ? reply fatima says: jul 31, 2018 at 3:12 pm please guide me. can we use other payment methods other than paypal, coz we don’t have paypal services here in pakistan. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 2, 2018 at 7:48 pm hi fatima, woocommerce supports many payment gateways. however, wc vendors uses paypal adaptive payments and stripe. reply muhammad ahtisham ali says: jul 13, 2018 at 5:56 pm is it reliable to use wordpress for building multi vendor website? i have heard that wordpress is very heavy specially when it comes to building multi vendor marketplace, it takes very much time to load. is that the case ? what should we do if that’s the case reply wpbeginner support says: jul 15, 2018 at 7:59 pm hello, as your website grows you will be able to generate enough revenue to upgrade your hosting plan. reply sravya says: jul 11, 2018 at 4:33 am hello , thanks a ton for the info. i have a question . i want to start a online market , and i don’t want to sell my products i want to sell others like amazon in my page . so while setting up do i need to put my products list or is their any way that the page can redirect to amazon. because i saw in setting up their is a page which showed to uplaload a photo of the product which i don’t have . reply punit bhandari says: jun 23, 2018 at 11:56 am this post was quite helpful. i was wondering which indian payment gateway supports multi-vendor payments. do you recommend any? none of their website’s mention this feature. reply david says: jun 18, 2018 at 3:09 pm can vendors add products via the frontend? reply nhung says: may 17, 2018 at 9:28 am which marketplace theme did you use? reply wpbeginner support says: may 18, 2018 at 7:30 pm hi nhung, for this tutorial we created a demo site and used a free wordpress theme called hestia. reply mikael andersen says: mar 15, 2018 at 8:18 am i have a question about the hosting provider. you recommend blue host, but in the last couple of weeks i have several times read that siteground should be at better hosting company, and that wordpress.org recommend using siteground. could you explain if there are any different features for those two hosting providers. reply dmsumon says: mar 20, 2018 at 8:33 am they are recommending “blue host” only because wpbeginner is a partner of blue host and in the article they are using a referral link. siteground is one of the best shared wp hosting out in the web and on the other hand they are a little expensive too comparing to other shared wp hosting. blue host is also a good choice if you are tight on budget as well as need performance. reply mikael andersen says: mar 20, 2018 at 9:28 am ok – thank you for your answer reply wpbeginner support says: mar 20, 2018 at 3:39 pm hey mikael and dmsumon, we recommend bluehost because we have used them and we believe they are the best hosting company for wordpress beginners. we do get a small cut when users sign up at no extra cost to the user. please see our disclosure page for more details. we also recommend siteground for growing websites. see our list of wordpress hosting providers that we trust and recommend. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.