home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us uncategorized how to hide or disable ‘blue ticks’ on whatsapp uncategorized how to hide or disable ‘blue ticks’ on whatsapp by shashank jain - november 29, 2014 619 2 - advertisment - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp how to hide or disable ‘blue ticks’ on whatsapp the most trusted and rated instant messaging app “whatsapp”, always brings something exuberant for its user. every update brings out something new which is not even expected and this time whatsapp brings for you the blue ticks. many of people are searching ” whatsapp messages showing gray clock ” quite different from others searches blue ticks in whatsapp??? how to hide or disable ‘blue ticks’ on whatsapp amazed to see this new blue ticks on your whatsapp . but what actually this blue ticks mean??? here is the answer. this is actually a new whatsaap feature called “read receipts”. this blue ticks indicate that their chatting partner read the text send to them. in short your message was seen at other side. different tick marks in whatsapp mean?? previously, a clock indicate that message has not been sent, the single grey color tick shows that the message was sent successfully from your device and double grey color ticks shows that message has been successfully received at the recipient side. but still it does not guarantee whether the message was read by the recipient or not. but now you cant escape any more with this blue ticks. this blue ticks actually shows that the message send has seen by the recipient. this blue tick was surely a great feature but it could also be dreading for some. this step could also be unfavorable for its user and can make its user to search for another option. how to hide blue ticks in whatsapp?? so a big question amongst all, how to escape from this blue ticks??? as expected from whatsapp, blue ticks are now made optional (no more compulsory). as earlier also , to encourage its customer, whatsapp brings an option of hiding last seen. similarly now also , the new version of whatsapp comes in built with the option of disabling or hiding this blue ticks. the beta version of whatsapp is all you want to hide your blue ticks. you have to just disable the read receipts t option available on your whatsapp. go to your settings option available in your whatsapp. their you will find privacy, tap on privacy and disable read receipts. once you disabled your read receipts , no more blue ticks will be shown when you read a message, but just as you hide your last seen from others , you cant see others last seen; similarly with this blue ticks also. once you disabled yours, you cant see others blue tick also. i think it’s a fair enough. note:- only the latest version of whatsapp 2.11.44 comes with an option of disabling read receipts. but this version is not available on google play, so you have to go to the official website of whatsapp to download this latest version. since the whatsapp version 2.11.44 is not available in google play, we have tried to find some other alternatives to hide this blue ticks. you can simply put your smart phones on airplane mode and then can check the messages . after this you can again move to general mode. this way the whatsapp will not send back the read receipt i.e blue ticks. but this does not works with all devices and specially not for iphone because when again you switched on your 3g or 4g network whatsapp get synchronized and send the blue ticks to the sender. we have still more better options for you. you can use a “whatsapp widget”. add it on your home screen from widget manager . now whenever you receive a new message you can easily check it and that too even without worrying about blue ticks. but be careful that you should not click a message, else whatsapp will be opened. to avoid this you can use lock so even if you accidentally tap on a message then it will direct you to the lock and not to the whatsapp. the best amongst the all is snowball beta. snow ball beta is the best option to hide or disable blue ticks. this app will collect all your messages from all other apps including whatsapp and even does not consider the message as read.!! now you can feel relax and take a sigh of relief about being answerable to everyone . - advertisement - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp previous articlemx player for pc free download next articlelist of best free recharge apps to get free talk time/recharges on your mobile shashank jain shashank jain, founder of iphone-s, a young and energetic entrepreneur has always been fond of technology. his liking for technology made him go for engineering in computers. during his studies, he learned & worked on different computer languages & os including hbcd, linux, etc. he also has a keen interest in ethical hacking. 2 comments hemant kumar arya april 2, 2016 at 12:37 pm awesome post. this is really helpfull. thank you ? reply leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. must read chatroulette apps for android & ios anshi - modified date: march 19, 2020 0 full guide on satisfactory save game location anshi - modified date: march 18, 2020 0 how to use cxbx emulator – way to play on cxbx ashish lavania - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 how cryptocurrency works: a complete guide by hedgespots anshi - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? shashank jain - modified date: march 7, 2020 0 - advertisement - sponsored postshashank jain - march 7, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? it’s perfectly normal to think that apple doesn’t make mistakes when it comes to technology. however, they do. when first... read more uncategorizedshashank jain - march 5, 2020 0 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use marketing strategy if you are not using email marketing to promote your brand, products or services, you are missing out on... read more must read tricks n tipsshashank jain - september 4, 2017 0 get to know background app refresh on iphone and ipad saving is new caring we all have heard this... read more fitness appsshashank jain - december 7, 2015 0 best 8 workout apps for iphone whеthеr уоu аrе lооking fоr thе best iphоnе аррѕ... read more trending tech 8 amazing yoga and meditation apps for iphone users shashank jain - december 13, 2017 0 top 4 pocket wod free app for ipad/ iphone – crossfit app shashank jain - january 7, 2017 0 top 6 nature & wildlife mobile apps shashank jain - november 20, 2016 0 - advertisement - you might also likerelated recommended to you uncategorized 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use marketing strategy if you are not using email marketing to promote... shashank jain - march 5, 2020 0 read more uncategorized the advancement of technology through the years: smartphones think about the launch of a product, any product.... shashank jain - february 17, 2020 0 read more uncategorized top 5 best scheduling apps for for better time management on iphone today, in this fast-moving world, more and more people... shashank jain - february 4, 2020 0 read more uncategorized best iphone storage cleaning apps for 2020 there is nothing in the world more frustrating than... shashank jain - january 30, 2020 0 read more © copyright 2018 - iphone-s.com factspress