start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising brain advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how systems thinking makes you a smarter person leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email there are several perspectives on the term systems thinking. the discipline goes beyond a collection of tools and techniques. a lot of individuals are fascinated by tools like brainstorming tools, structural thinking tools, dynamic thinking tools, as well as computer-based tools. they believe the system thinking tools can make them smarter and productive. however, it goes beyond that as systems thinking is more strategic and sensitive to the environment we find ourselves. so what is systems thinking and why is it good for you? table of contents what is systems thinking? characteristics of systems thinking how to use systems thinking how to foster learning with systems thinking final thoughts more to help you think smarter what is systems thinking? systems thinking is a diagnostic tool that can help you to assess problems before taking action. it helps you to ask questions before arriving at conclusions. it prevents you from making an assumption, which is the lowest level of knowledge. a systems thinker is curious, compassionate, and courageous. the systems thinking approach incorporates the act of seeing the big picture instead of seeing in parts. it recognizes that we are connected, and there are diverse ways to solve a problem. characteristics of systems thinking systems thinking can help you in analyzing the connections between subsystems and understanding their potentials to make smarter decisions. in a soccer team, the elements are the coach, players, the field, and a ball. the interrelationships are strategies, communications among players, and game rules. the goal is to win, have fun and exercise. we all belong to several systems and subsystems. some characteristics of systems thinking include: issue is important the issue is familiar with well-known patterns attempts have been made to resolve the issue. given these characteristics, systems thinking goes beyond an operational tool; it is a strategic approach and a philosophy. how to use systems thinking here’re 3 ways you can use systems thinking: 1. understand how the system works and use feedback points the first task is to know what system is all about and identify the leverage points or feedbacks that influence its functioning. this is what will help in adjusting the system. advertising if you want the system to be productive, enhance the feedback points. if you want it to be less productive, exhaust the same points. a good example is that of a bathtub. the leverage points are the faucet and the drain. if you forget to close the drain, having turned on the water, the water will never stop flowing, and the tub will never overflow. if you want more water, close the drain while you turn the water. if otherwise, turn the faucet off and open the drain. you can apply this to your personal development. once you discover the feedback points in your life, find your leverage or feedback points, then enhance those points. if you want to be fit, get a trainer, find a mentor, or eat healthy foods. 2. discover the patterns, structure, and events trends and patterns could be compared to clues for a crossword puzzle. as you aspire to enhance the system, trends and patterns offer you hints and cause to shift your paradigm. usually, they can direct you to unusual and unexpected aspects, to ideas, people, or places you have never thought about. smart people watch out for trends and patterns so they can be conversant with changes. you can view the world from 3 different perspectives: i. the event perspective if you consider the world from an event perspective, the best you can do is to be smarter is ‘react’. you tend to be smarter by reacting quickly, becoming more lighter on your feet, and flexible as you advance through life. so how do you view the world from an event perspective? you ask a question like, ‘what happened?’. there is the possibility of becoming more aware and seeing more at this level. an excellent technique to achieve this is by telling a story to a group. if you can see beyond each event, see beyond patterns and trends, you will be empowered to anticipate, predict, and plan. advertising ii. pattern perspective to view the world from a pattern perspective, you need to ask, ‘what has been happening?’ it is most times difficult to see the actual size of an iceberg (underlying structures that are the causes of events). the waterline dissects what’s visible from what’s not visible. a systems thinker does not assume from what’s visible only; he or she seeks to know what has been happening. take a look at this video to understand more about the iceberg theory: iii. the structure perspective to view the world from a structure perspective, you need to ask, ‘what is causing issues?’ the answers will be the factors and forces responsible. if you find yourself in a traffic jam, you don’t blame the next driver as a smart person; you could ask, ‘what’s been causing the traffic jam? the usual answers could be a decaying road surface, careless driver, or high speed, but that would be the same things identified as trends. what makes the structure perspective different from others. the structure is what propels your energy. it is what affects happenings. a systems thinkers make deductions based on internal structures to arrive at a conclusion 3. people problems vs system problems several issues ranging from security breaches, product flaws, poverty, to transportation inefficiencies are systemic. advertising even when you misbehave, there is usually an internal system to blame. if you are not productive in your business, it may not be caused by you. there may be a system that you need to enhance. do you remember our feedback points? as soon as you assess the system, you can focus on people. is a new hire causing lag in the packaging process? is poor communication affecting the team’s performance? reallocating job roles may be a perfect leverage point. in the traffic jam example, there could be a system-based solution such as installing traffic lights and subsequently enforcing traffic laws in the area to penalize reckless drivers. how to foster learning with systems thinking systems thinking helps you to appreciate the interrelationships of people, organizations, policies, decisions, ideas, and relationships. peter m senge propounded five disciplines that foster learning in your dna- whether you are leading an organization, starting a venture, or working as a freelancer.[1] 1. gain mastery you can take online courses, attend conferences, read blog articles and books, listen to podcasts, converse with leaders within and beyond your industry, watch documentaries, learn from your team, and stretch yourself by improving your skills. 2. discover your assumptions and biases there was this parable of four blind men who made different assumptions about an elephant. their assumptions and biases hinder them from understanding how the animal looks like. biases can rob you of innovation and prevent you from experiencing personal growth. to become aware of your biases, you have to take an internal trip and engage breakthrough thinking. 3. establish your vision systems grind to a halt when the goal or mission is not defined. you will not have the motivation to complete the online course if you don’t know why you subscribe in the first place. advertising is it for career advancement? to up your game or to gain general knowledge? vision inspires you. 4. learn in groups there is power in shared learning. there is a solidification of understanding when you learn in a group. you can have the lessons etched in your long term memory. for instance, you can join learning groups where information is shared weekly. 5. think in systems systems thinking is about lifelong learning and improvement. it has also been linked to the iceberg principle, which affirms that visible events are insignificant compared to what’s visible. there’s more ice below the waterline than what you can see with your physical eyes. anytime you are battling with a challenge, think in systems. understand the details of the issue. discover your leverage points. assess, adapt, and keep improving your models. after all. if you meet a lion in the wild, you need to understand what you are facing. final thoughts you can foster systems thinking by modeling your own environment. participate in training, watch ted talks, and create time to connect with others. also, practice critical thinking instead of making assumptions before you make a decision. the more you think systems, the more you will become smarter and productive in every aspect of your life. more to help you think smarter how to train your brain to think fast and think smart 11 ways to think outside the box how to develop critical thinking skills and think clearer featured photo credit: olav ahrens røtne via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ peter senge: “systems thinking for a better world” – aalto systems forum 2014 share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to develop critical thinking skills and think clearer how to train your brain to think fast and think smart 5 cognitive biases that have kept you from achieving full potential advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in brain 1 how systems thinking makes you a smarter person 2 15 brain foods that will super boost your brain power 3 what is creativity? we all have it, and need it 4 how to think critically: 5 powerful techniques 5 characteristics of critical thinking (and how to think critically) more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it trending in brain 1 how systems thinking makes you a smarter person 2 15 brain foods that will super boost your brain power 3 what is creativity? we all have it, and need it 4 how to think critically: 5 powerful techniques 5 characteristics of critical thinking (and how to think critically) read next how to think smart (if you think you’re not smart enough) conscious mind vs subconscious mind: how to improve them? how to use your subconscious mind for true success what are the levels of the mind and how to improve them advertising advertising brain health advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 15 brain foods that will super boost your brain power marnix buijs marnix is a health and fitness blogger. while he walks his own journey, he shares his experiences and knowledge to help others. read full profile share pin it tweet share email these days, there are so many food choices. every marketing trick is used to make you buy brain foods, all-natural, fat-free or gluten-free products. could you blame them? they need to make a profit to keep existing and delivering their goods to the consumers. but does this mean that foods with these labels are just regular products or do brain foods really exist? that’s when research came in and proved that brain foods (meaning: foods that have a positive effect on the brain) really do exist. in this article, you will find 15 brain foods you should be eating to keep your mind sharp. 1. blueberries one of the greatest gifts of mother nature — blueberries. blueberries are known as the king of antioxidants[1] and are used to detox the body. there are not a lot of studies that tried to prove the relationship between blueberries and the improvement of brain function. but there’s one study that consisted of 9 elderly people. they found that consuming blueberry juice on a daily basis for 12 weeks improved memory function.[2] if this is not reasonable enough to include blueberries into your diet, you should read the following article on other benefits of blueberries: 10 benefits of blueberries that will impress you as with every single one of the brain foods listed here: consuming more than necessary can also lead to side effects, this is the same with blueberries.[3] when including blueberries in your diet along with other brain foods; make sure to eat no more than 0.5 cups (4 oz./113 grams) a day. 2. broccoli the first vegetable on the list, broccoli. whatever you do with it; roast, steam, blanch or saute.[4] it will still improve the sharpness of your brain. there are two main nutrients in broccoli that makes it one of the brain foods on this list. vitamin k, which is also found in lower amounts in blueberries, helps strengthen cognitive abilities.[5] the nutrient choline improves your memory.[6] there’s six times more vitamin k in broccoli than in blueberries. the downside is that blueberries are a bit tastier. include some broccoli with every warm plate you eat in a day, and your brain will turn into a super brain. advertising 3. walnuts walnuts are the best choice of all the nuts when it comes to improving cognitive function. they have the same benefits as every other nut, but walnuts also contain omega-3 fatty acids.[7] beside the improvement of heart health,[8] walnuts also provide a sharper memory (at least to women).[9] consuming walnuts also help slow mental decline[10] because of the vitamin e that is found in walnuts.[11] next time you crave a snack, buy a bag of unroasted and unsalted walnuts. in the future, this will be the replacement of all unhealthy snacks like twix. brain foods are not brain foods because they contain a lot of sugar. brain foods usually consist of a high amount of vitamins and antioxidants. that’s how you can recognize them. 4. green tea some of us are coffee drinkers while others prefer tea. you don’t have to choose one or the other because both of them made it to the list (you’ll read later about coffee in number 11 of brain foods). green tea contains more than just caffeine; it contains l-theanine which essentially lowers the anxiety levels.[12] it also increases the levels of dopamine and alpha wave production (relaxation). the lower levels of caffeine in green tea compared to coffee makes this a perfect brain function drink. caffeine and l-theanine show synergistic effects that work best with the amount of caffeine found in green tea.[13] people who drink green tea have proven that they have a more stable energy level and increased productivity compared to when they drink coffee. so, if you’re looking for brain foods that will enhance your productivity; green tea is the way to go. 5. oranges orange has a high amount of vitamin c in it. one large orange is enough to fulfill 100% of your daily vitamin c intake. vitamin c has a lot of benefits: vitamin c reduces the risk of chronic diseases like heart disease[14] it may help fight against high blood pressure[15] vitamin c boosts immunity by increasing the production of white blood cells[16] the most important of all: high levels of vitamin c are found to be related to the improvement of memory and thinking. people suffering from dementia has been shown to have low levels of vitamin c.[17] this may mean that by consuming enough vitamin c, you will be able to prevent dementia.[18] to learn more about everything related to vitamin c, read the following article: all you need to know about vitamin c benefits (and recipes to boost your daily intake) 6. avocados avocados fit very nicely in your salad, or you may even like it on toast. avocado is a source of healthy fats; monounsaturated fat. monounsaturated fat is believed to contribute to healthy blood flow which in turn means a healthy brain.[19] besides that, avocados also lower blood pressure which will prevent a decrease in cognitive abilities.[20] advertising adding 1/4 or 1/2 avocado daily should do the trick and help your brain function as a superhero. if you need practical ways to include avocado in your daily diet, check this out: 50+ super easy avocado recipes at home now 7. coconut oil coconut oil is a multi-functional oil; some bathe in it, some put it all over their skin, and it’s also used for cooking. to get the following benefits out of it; you should consume it orally (but that’s up to you of course). when it comes down to improved brain function; coconut oil has proven to boost brain function in alzheimer’s patients.[21] although it isn’t shown to work on people without alzheimer’s; it can never hurt. besides that, there are many more benefits to coconut oil. 8. spinach one research found that when elderly consumed one (or two) daily serving of spinach (or other leafy greens for that matter) for an average of 5 years had the same cognitive abilities as someone 11 years younger who never consumed leafy greens.[22] this all is thanks to vitamin k that is found in leafy greens like spinach, kale, collards and mustard greens. popeye looks impressive from the outside, and you will look impressive from the inside once you consume your daily spinach: 6 mouth-watering spinach recipes you should not miss 9. oatmeal known for its use as breakfast, oatmeal is one of many kinds of cereal that contains more than just sugar. there’s a reason why oatmeal is often used as breakfast. it is because of the many carbohydrates that are in it which act like a shot of glucose that spikes your blood sugar levels. glucose is sent immediately to the brain to help it function. in essence, this means that the higher the concentration of glucose in your blood, the better you can focus and remember things.[23] if you suffer from low blood sugar levels in the morning and can’t function without having a big breakfast immediately upon waking, oatmeal is going to be your best friend. 10. raisins children often consume them as healthy snacks because it’s sweet. but did you know raisins promote brain function? raisins are the number one source of boron of all brain foods. the research found that the level of boron is related to hand-eye coordination and short-term memory.[24] increased levels of boron improves both. advertising besides that, raisins also heal wounds faster and prevent deficiency in vitamin d. 11. coffee we touched on the benefits of green tea earlier, but that doesn’t mean coffee can’t serve its purpose to brain function as well. if you prefer coffee over tea; listen (actually read) closely. there’s something about coffee that most people don’t even know. the point is that most of us consume more antioxidants through coffee than any other of the mentioned brain foods. this is not because there are more antioxidants in coffee; it’s because coffee is consumed the most of all brain foods. these antioxidants protect your brain from cell death which in turn protects you from dementia and related diseases.[25] not to mention that caffeine may also prevent dementia and alzheimer’s.[26][27] you don’t have to give up your coffee; except for all the sugar and milk you put in it. drink your coffee black and keep it to a maximum of 3 per day and you should be okay. 12. almonds earlier we touched upon walnuts, but most nuts are generally good for your health (as long as you don’t overdo it). almonds are most known for their potential of enhancing memory and delaying alzheimer’s progression.[28][29] of course, they share the same benefits with the walnuts, but almonds are lower in omega 3 fats. if you forget things on a daily basis, maybe a handful of almonds per day can help you. five to six almonds a day should do the trick. if you’re not watching your weight, you can just grab a handful. but don’t overdo it because there’s a lot of fats in nuts. here’re more benefits of almonds you should know: 10 benefits of almonds that will surprise you (+healthy recipes) 13. lentils lentils for the vegans among you is one of the best sources of protein among legumes. besides that, it is a rich source of various essential nutrients like iron, vitamin b6, and folate (vitamin b9). besides the fact that they make a terrific combination with rice; lentils also serves its purpose in the brain. all the essential nutrients improve brain function in their own way: advertising folate (vitamin b9) keeps your mind sharp while you get older.[30] iron plays an essential role in cognitive functioning with pregnant women.[31] zinc is well known for boosting memory.[32] vitamin b6 and thiamine give you more energy and focus.[33][34] as you can see; lentils make up one of the best brain foods on this list. but this also depends on your preference as some of you might’ve never even eaten lentils. 14. strawberries most berries and other related fruits like strawberries (which are technically seen not berries) are all known to have beneficial effects on the brain.[35] they help prevent age-related memory loss and may even slow the progress of alzheimer’s.[36] another thing that is more strawberry related is the amount of potassium in it. potassium is related to increased blood flow thus improved cognitive function.[37] eight strawberries per day should do the trick and give you many benefits besides these brain-enhancing benefits: 10 amazing benefits of strawberries that you probably never knew 15. red wine last but not least, red wine. although alcohol itself is not related to any improvement in brain functioning; some studies show that there are benefits to drinking lightly or moderately. out of all the alcoholic beverages, red wine is the one with the most favorable results. research shows that red wine may even slow aging[38] and it can also decrease the risk of dementia.[39] although these results are based on research, the researchers don’t recommend that any non-drinkers start drinking. especially younger people shouldn’t aim to drink red wine as the most benefits (or no increased risks) are found in the elderly. if you think about drinking red wine, you should drink maximum 1 glass of red wine per day as a woman and maximum of 2 glasses of red wine per day for men. one glass of red wine should contain 175ml, don’t overdo it. keep in mind that there are also potential risks to drinking alcohol. such risks include addition, depression and weight gain when you’re not drinking carefully. conclusion “you are what you eat.” one of the oldest sayings ever expresses all you need to know. every food on this brain foods list is put on this list because it enhances brain functioning in some way. so, whichever food on this list you choose to eat after reading this article doesn’t matter. what matters most is that you read everything closely and choose one of the brain foods that fit your goal the most. enjoy eating your next brain food! more tips about boosting brain power how to increase brain power, boost memory and become 10x smarter 8 ways to train your brain to learn faster and remember more do memory supplements work? 10 supplements to boost brain power featured photo credit: melissa belanger via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ wild blueberries: wild blueberries antioxidants [2] ^ ncbi: blueberry supplementation improves memory in older adults [3] ^ good health all: 8 major side effects of eating too many blueberries [4] ^ skinny ms: how to make broccoli taste good, each and every time [5] ^ wellness resources: vitamin k enhances cognitive function during aging [6] ^ the american journal of clinical nutrition: the relation of dietary choline to cognitive performance and white-matter hyperintensity in the framingham offspring cohort [7] ^ the journal of nutrition: role of walnuts in maintaining brain health with age [8] ^ ncbi: cardiovascular risk factors and cognitive function. [9] ^ ncbi: long-term intake of nuts in relation to cognitive function in older women [10] ^ ncbi: vitamin e and cognitive decline in older persons. [11] ^ ncbi: vitamin e-gene interactions in aging and inflammatory age-related diseases: implications for treatment. a systematic review. [12] ^ ncbi: the neuropharmacology of l-theanine(n-ethyl-l-glutamine): a possible neuroprotective and cognitive enhancing agent. [13] ^ ncbi: l-theanine and caffeine in combination affect human cognition as evidenced by oscillatory alpha-band activity and attention task performance. [14] ^ ncbi: effect of five-year supplementation of vitamin c on serum vitamin c concentration and consumption of vegetables and fruits in middle-aged japanese: a randomized controlled trial. [15] ^ ncbi: effects of vitamin c supplementation on blood pressure: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. [16] ^ ncbi: association between nutritional status and cognitive functioning in a healthy elderly population. [17] ^ ncbi: dietary antioxidants and dementia in a population-based case-control study among older people in south germany. [18] ^ national institute of health: vitamin c [19] ^ journal of neurochemistry: dietary intake of unsaturated fatty acids modulates physiological properties of entorhinal cortex neurons in mice [20] ^ national institute on aging: high blood pressure is linked to cognitive decline [21] ^ ncbi: effects of beta-hydroxybutyrate on cognition in memory-impaired adults. [22] ^ news wise: eating green leafy vegetables keeps mental abilities sharp [23] ^ pnas: stoichiometric coupling of brain glucose metabolism and glutamatergic neuronal activity [24] ^ ncbi: nothing boring about boron [25] ^ ncbi: neuroprotection and antioxidants [26] ^ ncbi: high blood caffeine levels in mci linked to lack of progression to dementia. [27] ^ ncbi: hypoxia/reoxygenation impairs memory formation via adenosine-dependent activation of caspase 1. [28] ^ science direct: repeated administration of almonds increases brain acetylcholine levels and enhances memory function in healthy rats while attenuates memory deficits in animal model of amnesia [29] ^ science direct: almond, hazelnut and walnut, three nuts for neuroprotection in alzheimer’s disease: a neuropharmacological review of their bioactive constituents [30] ^ ncbi: folic acid, ageing, depression, and dementia [31] ^ the american journal of clinical nutrition: iron treatment normalizes cognitive functioning in young women [32] ^ researchgate: a potential medicinal importance of zinc in human health and chronic disease [33] ^ ora: vitamin b6 for cognition [34] ^ springer link: thiamine supplementation mood and cognitive functioning [35] ^ j. agric. food chem: berry fruit enhances beneficial signaling in the brain [36] ^ ncbi: dietary intake of berries and flavonoids in relation to cognitive decline [37] ^ science direct: potassium 2-(1-hydroxypentyl)-benzoate improves learning and memory deficits in chronic cerebral hypoperfused rats [38] ^ ny times: new hints seen that red wine may slow aging [39] ^ ncbi: moderate alcohol consumption and cognitive risk. share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to increase brain power, boost memory and become 10x smarter do memory supplements work? 10 supplements to boost brain power it’s the era of avocado! try these 50+ super easy avocado recipes at home now! advertising advertising more by this author marnix buijs marnix is a health and fitness blogger. while he walks his own journey, he shares his experiences and knowledge to help others. 15 brain foods that will super boost your brain power 10 recommended meditation for sleep apps to drastically improve sleep how guided meditation for kids can boost learning and social skills 22 tips to help you lead the healthy lifestyle your body deserves advertising trending in brain 1 how systems thinking makes you a smarter person 2 15 brain foods that will super boost your brain power 3 what is creativity? we all have it, and need it 4 how to think critically: 5 powerful techniques 5 characteristics of critical thinking (and how to think critically) read next all you need to know about vitamin c benefits and recipes to boost your daily intake 10 benefits of almonds that will surprise you (+healthy recipes) 6 mouth-watering spinach recipes you should not miss how to think smart (if you think you’re not smart enough) about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.