home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership how to have two successful careers in one happy home michael and megan 00:37:06 download transcript as a leader, you’re probably used to being in charge. so when two executives occupy the same household, it can lead to tension. spouses don’t take delegation well, especially when they’re also leaders! miscommunication and unmet expectations quickly turn to resentment. why does it feel like home is often the most stressful place to be? it doesn’t have to be that way. you can have the double win™, which is to win at work and succeed at life. and that certainly includes your home life. as successful executives who happen to be married to one another, we’ve learned the lessons that come from negotiating busy schedules, parenting responsibilities, and domestic roles. we’ll show you how to solve the puzzle of the multi-career household by cooperating on four key actions. here’s a peek inside this episode. the key conflict that helped us realize the need for greater collaboration at home. [4:35] why the management of household tasks must be made clear and explicit. [8:05] why men can sometimes be unaware of the conflict over home responsibilities. [9:20] what happens when you avoid discussing household management. [10:51] how the division of household chores is like a “couples contract.” [11:54] how the virtue of generosity helps develop equality in a relationship. [13:05] tips for starting a conversation that might be contentious. [14:23] the key difference between fairness and equity, and how that can help solve household conflicts. [20:20] how understanding each other’s strengths and weaknesses helps you create a great partnership. [23:00] how to shape your household responsibilities around your life season. [23:58] where your ideas about division of labor in the home may be coming from. [26:00] why getting home management right is so critical to your life. [28:39] the secret hack that highly successful two-career couples are using. [31:26] why you should outsource functions around the house as you do at work. [32:47] once you’ve listened to this episode, here’s your next step. schedule a time to sit down with your partner and do a household audit. list the things you are both currently doing to manage your home, and compare notes. start the conversation! have you reviewed the podcast yet? shout out this week goes to clint sanders, who left this 5-start review on itunes. he said simply, “i can’t get enough of the leadership lessons from this podcast.” thanks, clint. we’re glad to hear it. and we’d love to hear from you too. if you haven’t reviewed lead to win, why not do that now. it just takes a minute, and it helps so much to keep the program visible for other leaders. not sure how to leave a review? check here. resources from this episode “25 things you can delegate to an assistant,” free download from belay. text “leadtowin” (all one word) to 31996. couples that work: how dual-career couples can thrive in love and work by jennifer petriglieri “how to create more margin in your personal life” episode of lead to win resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe “25 things you can delegate to an assistant,” free download from belay. text “leadtowin” (all one word) to 31996. couples that work "how to create more margin in your personal life" posted on tuesday, december 17, 2019 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed