barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up life how do you know if you’re ready for a second dog? share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest deanna debara writer shares share tweet pin being a dog parent is amazing. it’s fun, it’s rewarding, it’s exciting. there’s never a dull moment when you have a pup running around your house! but after having your four-legged friend around for some time, you might start to think “having one dog is great…but would two dogs be even better?” there’s no one-size-fits-all answer to whether you should get another dog; it’s a great idea for some people and a not-so-great idea for others. adding a second dog to your family is a big decision—and you want to make sure you (and your pup!) are ready before you add another pup into the equation. but how, exactly, do you know whether getting another dog is the right move for your family? how do you know when you’re ready for a second dog? table of contents understand the pros and cons of getting a second dog how to determine if you’re ready for a second dog 1. everyone in your household—human and canine—is on board. 2. you have the financial means to support a second dog. 3. you have plenty of time and energy to dedicate to your pups. 4. you have space for two dogs. 5. you’re willing to train your new dog. 6. you have the green light to add a second dog to the household. ready for a second dog? adopt, don’t shop! understand the pros and cons of getting a second dog before we jump into how to determine if you’re ready for a second dog, let’s quickly cover some of the potential pros and cons of expanding your canine family. some of the major benefits of getting a second dog include: your dog will always have company. as much as you love your dog, there are times you’re going to have to leave them at home—and that can get lonely for your pup. adding a second dog to your family ensures your pup always has another four-legged pal to keep them company—and to keep loneliness at bay. two dogs will tire each other out (giving you a much needed break). dogs are full of fun-loving energy. and while you love that energy most of the time, there are going to be times (for example, when you’re sick or exhausted) that you need a break from all the running, playing, and general dog-related hijinks. when you have two dogs, they can play together, keep each other entertained, chase each other around the house…basically, they can tire each other out—perfect for when you need a break from all the puppy energy. twice the dogs, twice the love. loving a dog—and having a dog love you—is one of the most amazing feelings in the world. and when you have two dogs, you get double the love—and it’s doubly amazing! but adding a second dog into the mix isn’t all sunshine and rainbows; there can also be some drawbacks. some potential cons of getting a second dog include: twice the dogs, twice the work. when you have two dogs, that means you have to feed two dogs, walk two dogs, clean up after two dogs. or, in other words, when you double the number of dogs in your home, you also double the amount of work. twice the dogs, twice the bills. same thing goes for bills! when you have two dogs, you have to buy twice as much food, pay twice the amount in vet bills, pay for double the number of training sessions…basically, everything costs twice as much. and all those dog-related costs can put a serious dent in your budget. vacation planning gets a lot more complicated. finding someone to take care of your dog when you have to go out of town is hard enough. but finding someone to watch two dogs while you’re on vacation? that’s even tougher. just like any other decision, there are pros and cons to getting a second dog—and it’s important to understand them before you decide whether you’re ready to add another pup to your family. how to determine if you’re ready for a second dog understanding the pros and cons of getting a second dog is important. but if you’re seriously considering adding another dog to your family? there are a few other things you’ll want to consider before making a decision. here are six ways to tell if you’re ready for a second dog: 1. everyone in your household—human and canine—is on board. it’s great that you want a second dog. but if anyone else in your household objects—human or canine—it’s probably not a good idea. before you decide whether a second dog is right for you, talk to the other people in your household and make sure everyone’s on board. having two dogs is a lot of responsibility—and if not everyone agrees, it can feel like a burden (which isn’t fair to you or the dog). it’s also important to consider how your dog will feel about throwing another canine into the mix. if your pup doesn’t like sharing the spotlight or has a history of being less-than-enthusiastic about other dogs, adding another pup into the mix is probably not the right move. 2. you have the financial means to support a second dog. like we mentioned earlier, twice the dogs means twice the cost. before you add a second dog to your family, it’s important to look at your budget. do you have enough money to cover food, medical bills, and training for two dogs? are you willing to cut back in other areas (like eating out or going out to the movies) to free up budget to care for your new pup? if the answer to those questions is no, don’t get another dog. 3. you have plenty of time and energy to dedicate to your pups. being a dog parent takes a lot of time and energy. but being a dog parent to two pups? that’s an even bigger commitment. adding a new dog to the family is an adjustment. and both your current dog and your new dog will need plenty of love, time, and attention to make that transition a smooth one. if you’re pressed for time, have a hectic schedule, or just don’t want to devote most of your free time and energy to the new dog transition? it’s best to stay a one dog household. 4. you have space for two dogs. two dogs take up more space than one. before you add another dog into the mix, you need to make sure you have the space to accommodate them. is your home big enough for two dogs to share space without being on top of each other? is your car large enough to transport both pups safely and comfortably? if your dog likes to cuddle in your bed, do you have space by your pillow for another pup? two dogs require a lot of space—so much sure you have it before you get another dog. 5. you’re willing to train your new dog. if you want your new dog to fit in seamlessly into your family and your life, you’ll need to train them. if you’re not willing to put the time and energy into proper training, you’re not ready for a second dog. 6. you have the green light to add a second dog to the household. if you’re a renter, there might be a limit to how many pets you can have in the household. before you bring home another dog, it’s important to check with your landlord and make sure you have the green light to add a second dog to your family. ready for a second dog? adopt, don’t shop! if you do decide you’re ready for a second dog, consider adopting a pup from a local shelter or rescue. there are so many dogs out there that need a loving home. and if you’re willing and ready to add another dog to your family, you can be the person to provide it! looking for more stories about being a new dog parent? how to introduce your new dog to your first dog? how to introduce your new dog to your children? what are the best apps for dog parents? what supplies should you buy for your new dog? where should you get your new dog? comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up deanna debara writer australian stumpy tail cattle dog breed info guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts briquet griffon vendéen breed info guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts australian kelpie breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go