home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog family health get outdoors! prevnext how to give yourself a little boost with boots in 2018 leyla preston fri 9th feb 2018 3shares share tweet pin the year 2017 was the year of unhealthy overindulgence, especially during christmas, when i went all out over the food. my brother had smoked a lamb for eight hours, my mum had cooked a turkey and my dad roasted some beef. furthermore, my sister-in-law made two large cream cakes and my sister, who moved to singapore with her fiancé last year, was missing cheese so much that she brought an entire platter of different indulgent cheeses to the main christmas dinner. christmas was excessive, overwhelming and very unhealthy. my seven-year-old is literally a born vegan (apart from eating cheese, which is not often) and, even though i had tampered with veganism in the months leading up to christmas, i had somehow lost my way and ate everything that was on the table. during boxing day, i vowed to myself to never touch an animal product again because i just felt rubbish, inside and out. so, i began the road to veganism, with the help of veganuary (vegan january). i was so glad i did it – and properly this time too! it felt like a detox for the mind and soul and soon i was back to my pre-christmas weight with my insides finally stable and happy. i upped my workout game to four to five times a week and i shed all the nasty weight that had crept up on me in 2017, not to mention, losing my sugar cravings, (which had spiralled out of control after a loss in the family) thanks to a plant based only diet. who would have thought that eating clean stops your sugar cravings – there is something to this vegan lark you know! so, now that i’ve got my diet in check, it’s all about detoxing and boosting the body for a super healthy 2018. boots, the uk’s leading pharmacy-led health and beauty retailer, is my favourite store for looking after the mind, body and soul, and i love racking up my boots points by indulging in some great products for me and the kids, like body scrubs, massage oils and other comforting items that help me stay cosy during the winter freeze. what’s more, i’m encouraging my kids to stay fit too, although, they’re prime examples of how you just keep on going every day. after school, they have drama on mondays, musical theatre and beavers on tuesdays, and gymnastics and swimming on sundays. plus, we regularly go out for hikes and bike rides at the weekend and that keeps their fitness levels up. they’re keeping me fit too! boots gifted motherhood diaries an awesome little boost box, filled with great products that will help me stay on the road to health and fitness. i am now a fully-fledged vegan, so some of the products, i can’t use myself, but my willing husband, who is also motivated to stay on track with his health and fitness, are putting the products to good use for me. table of contents so, what did we get in our boots little boost box? women’s best all-in-one whey protein recommended daily intake: bach rescue night nature’s bounty turmeric 500g boots pharmaceuticals sleepeaze pillow mist – lavender sanctuary spa protect 5 minute moisture boost mask comvita umf 15+ manuka honey biona raw virgin coconut oil sanctuary pa covent garden signature sanctuary boots pharmaceuticals re-energise vitamin tablets so, what did we get in our boots little boost box? well, boots stock a huge range of vitamins, health drinks, body scrubs, rubs, massage oils, rejuvenating teas, candles – whatever you need to give yourself a little boost, no doubt, boots has got it. it’s my favourite ever store and i can literally spend hours wafting through the aisles and going crazy trying all sorts of products. here are some of boots’ wellness products, which you can find in any one of its 2,500 stores in the uk – and each one of them, in turn, will help to give your body the extra boost that it needs: women’s best all-in-one whey protein boots has an entire section on women’s best products, which contain high-quality sports nutrition that is specifically designed for women. the whey protein that i received in my little boosts pack is vanilla flavoured, which means it’ll taste super delicious in a post-workout smoothie. unfortunately, as i am on a plant-based diet and whey is made from animal protein, i am not able to use this myself, but it would make a great addition to shakes, especially when it contains a full range of vitamins and minerals to give you that extra immunity boost after your stores have been depleted during a workout. recommended daily intake: mix around 33g (2 measuring spoons) of powder with 200 – 300ml (11.8oz) of ice-cold water. shake well for about 10 seconds and then enjoy post-workout! bach rescue night i work from home and, sometimes, when i work in the evenings, i find it difficult to wind down and go to sleep. i especially find it difficult to sleep when i’ve gotten up early and had a long-wired day of work, kids, cooking and cleaning (which is mostly every day) and so i try to do some breathing exercises and will myself to sleep quickly. it’s important that i get at least seven hours of sleep at night, which means i need to be in bed by 10 pm and asleep by 11 pm, so i can get up at 6 am. boots has provided rescue sleep in the little boosts pack, which helps to calm a restless mind and provide natural relief from occasional sleeplessness caused by stress and repetitive thoughts. there are five active ingredients in all the rescue sleep products, which are: * white chestnut – to help ease a restless mind * star of bethlehem – for trauma and shock * clematis – for the tendency to “pass out”, and unconsciousness, being ‘far away’ and not present mentally * cherry plum – fear of mind giving away, verge of breakdown, anger * impatiens – for irritability, tension and fidgety * rock rose – for frozen terror and panic. i’m looking forward to drifting off into the land of nod within minutes of going to sleep, rather than hours. this will at least provide me with more energy to tackle the millions of tasks that i have got in store for me every day. boots has a great article on how to get more energy on their website, so it’s worth checking that out. did you know that getting enough b vitamins into your diet will help you get a good night’s sleep? good job i have my healthy dose of marmite on wholemeal toast every morning! nature’s bounty turmeric 500g you’ve probably heard about the health trend around adding turmeric to your tea and smoothies. well, there is a reason for this because turmeric is actually a superfood spice that contains powerful medicinal properties. turmeric contains compounds called curcuminoids, the most important being curcumin, which is the main active ingredient in turmeric. it contains anti-inflammatory properties and is also a very strong anti-oxidant. this means that all that rubbish food you ate in 2017, which caused possible inflammation to the stomach, may be counteracted by taking one turmeric supplement per day. unfortunately, as curcumin is poorly absorbed in the bloodstream, you would need to take some black pepper with it, as black pepper contains piperine, which is a natural substance that enhances the absorption of curcumin by 2000% if you can add turmeric to your diet in its whole food form, then great. otherwise, you can find the ground spice in any supermarket or just take a supplement every day to ensure you get the recommended daily amount of curcumin levels into your system. also, the food supplement version is fat soluble, so make sure to take it with a fatty meal. boots pharmaceuticals sleepeaze pillow mist – lavender as mentioned above, sleep is one of the things i find the most difficult to get into quickly – although, once i’m asleep, i’m asleep. i noticed the same long wind-down pattern in my seven-year-old who, no matter when he wakes in the morning, cannot get to sleep without at least an hour of winding down – this involves yoga music, some stretching, chatting and venting, massaging – you name it. i am loathed to use additional support products because i want him to learn how to settle to sleep himself. but, last night, it was nearing 9.30pm and i knew this was because i had missed the very short ten-minute window between 6 pm and 6.10pm to get him down and ready for sleep. the problem is, if he goes to bed after 6.15pm, he will tend to get drowsy around 8.30pm and then fall asleep around 9 pm, depending on the day he has had. if he is in his bed with lights off at 6 pm, he’ll be down by 7 pm. on some days his after-school activities don’t even finish until 7 pm, which means he is home at 7.30pm. then it is virtually impossible to get him to sleep before 9.30pm. so, on one of those days, i brought out the sleepeaze and sprayed it on his bed and lightly onto his pillow. fifteen minutes later, he was asleep. now, was this because it was already 9.30pm or did lavender have something to do with it? well, lavender has been known to relax the mind and body to sleep because of its calming aroma. studies on the essential oil show that lavender can relieve stress, stabilise your mood and improve sleep. how much you have to use to feel the effects is still unknown, but i shall be trying again on both mine and my son’s pillow to see if the other night wasn’t just an anomaly. sanctuary spa protect 5 minute moisture boost mask the harsh weather plays havoc on my skin, making it dry and, on some occasions, chapped and bleeding. my hands get it the worst, but it is also quite noticeable on my face – i seem to have more fine lines during the winter than in the summer, which may be down to the cold weather zapping moisture from my skin. so, boots kindly included an indulgent mask which you smooth over your dry skin and leave for five minutes before you rinse off, with either warm water or a warm towel. i will be trying this mask tonight because it has been a particularly cold day (the temperature gauge hit -3 degrees celsius this morning), so a nourishing mask that replenishes the moisture back into the skin may be just what the doctor ordered tonight! comvita umf 15+ manuka honey manuka honey has a rich and well-known history of medicinal properties – in fact, before going vegan, i used honey in medicinal teas for my boys’ sore throats, rashes and even chicken pox (the spots scabbed over in less than three days!), but what is it in honey that helps to treat wound infections and other health conditions? manuka honey is produced in new zealand and comes from the native manuka bush that the bees pollinate and make into honey. the liquid gold, as some call it, contains three chemicals; hydrogen peroxide, methylglyoxal (mgo) and dihydroxyacetone, two of which contain bioactive compounds that provide its medicinal properties. manuka honey is graded according to its non-peroxide antibacterial potency, which is more commonly known as the unique manuka factor (umf). the higher the umf, the stronger the potency and, therefore, the more medicinal benefits the honey has – that’s why the higher the grade, the more expensive it is to buy. the comvita umf 15+ manuka honey 250g is £49.99, which may seem dear, but my son had a persistent cough and i added the 15+ manuka honey to his peppermint tea (with lemon) two nights in a row and the cough has gone! i do believe manuka honey works, especially when i saw the miraculous effects of its properties on my sons’ chicken pox. biona raw virgin coconut oil i am a coconut oil fiend! i use it on my hair, my face, my food – everything! although, one of the fattier oils and, therefore, the more indulgent in foods, i found coconut oil to be the most versatile of all the oils. coconut oil works because of its healthy fats, i.e. caprylic acid, lauric acid and capric acid. if you are suffering from lack of energy, coconut oil can provide a great source of energy because there is only a three-step process for the body to turn the oil into fuel. coconut oil is a medium-chain fatty acid, which means that it is easier to digest, not readily stored as fat, processed better by the liver (hence why it is immediately converted to energy rather than being stored as fat) and, more importantly, it is antimicrobial and antifungal. coconut oil has even been known to prevent heart disease and high blood pressure, as well as treat dandruff (you massage it into the hair and leave it on overnight before washing off). coconut oil can also be known to treat urinary tract infections – it’s a true superfood! my thick curly hair is often radiant and bouncy after a slather of coconut oil when i step out of the shower. my skin soaks up the oil and retains the moisture and, during the extra cold days, i use the coconut oil on my sons’ chapped lips and dry hands. i’ve recently added coconut oil in some rather indulgent desserts and i just love the taste of the oil with the sweetness of the dessert. as it has been so cold lately, the coconut oil’s texture is like cement when trying to scrape it out of the jar. but, pop it in the microwave for a few seconds and you’ll see it transform into a transparent liquid. sanctuary pa covent garden signature sanctuary no relaxation is complete without a scented candle. along with the flame that sets the meditative lighting and soothes the soul, the scent of the candle can trigger positive memories or inner peace and it has also been known to help people rest into a deep sleep. i love to keep a lit scented candle in the toilet for a few minutes to counteract any nasty odours or alight while i’m having a soothing bath. the above pink grapefruit candle from sanctuary spa fits perfectly in the kitchen and emits a lovely fruit aroma while i’m cooking, which also helps to balance against the cooking smells. so, definitely, one to add to your little boosts pack. boots pharmaceuticals re-energise vitamin tablets i take a multivitamin supplement every day but prefer to have mine dissolvable form because it forces me to drink a good helping of water before i’ve eaten or had my coffee in the morning. these boots re-energise tablets remind me of berocca and i’ve noticed that they do provide a good boost in the morning before i tackle the day ahead. also, my skin is clearer, but that may be down to a good diet and a good helping of multivitamins. so, how about you? how do you reboot your routine and shake off the christmas excess? what are you doing to embrace the new year and stay on track to a healthy and prosperous 2018? if you are interested in joining other like-minded people who are into their health and fitness this year, check out my supportive facebook group, the 6 am club, where you’ll find great exercise tips and awesome recipes from experts in the group. otherwise, i’d definitely check out the above little boosts products at your nearest boots or online because they’re the perfect companions to help you stay strong and motivated. it’s time to create a new you this 2018! *this post is in conjunction with boots but all thoughts are my own* never miss a new post! don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:bootscoconut oilexercisehealthlavenderlittle boostsmanuka honeymoisture maskmultivitaminsnew yearrescue nightscented candlessleepeazeturmericwhey protein related posts how serenz can help combat common allerg... pregnancy & stis: what to do how to strengthen your pelvic floor afte... perfect your pelvic floor this 2017 with... nursery rhymes finger food creations wit... choosing the best antivirus software for... how to get fit with beats headphones five survival skills for kids that you s... competition time! win a polar loop 2 and... was that it? feeling a kick… maybe... ozeri 4x3motion digital pocket 3d pedome... get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... how much does it cost eat like an olympi... walkers baked hoops and crosses crisp re... help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... top five restful activities for parents ... 34 weeks pregnant – antenatal clas... get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... music and the womb: myths and benefits o... healthy weight loss after pregnancy the benefits of moisturising with face o... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... what does a baby see during their first ... the truth about pregnancy and childbirth get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... how to be an active mum 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... the process of egg donation for in vitro... keeping your skin autumn fresh and how g... 3 ways a healthy heart improves fertilit... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 3shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok