start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways diana reid ceo - moxie house ltd read full profile share pin it tweet share email do you ever wonder why on earth you are here? you know, like how to find meaning in life, or your purpose in life? why you actually exist on this planet? these are probably the most subtle, yet profound, questions people ask themselves every day and i can bet you there’s probably as many different answers to these questions as there are people asking them, too. this is why instead of asking yourself why you are here and what exactly it is you should be doing, let us begin to make your experiences the answer to your questions and put some meaning and oomph back in your life, where they belong. 1. learn the lesson on happiness yes, i know, you’ve heard it before: happiness is a choice. yes, it is, and luckily it can be practiced by anyone because the truth is you can actually override what you were originally taught, which is to play along with the rest of the world and become upset or unhappy because things are not perfect. alright, i’m not saying always have a deluded smile on your face (people will think you’re crazy) but instead stay calm and stay happy, whilst dealing with situations that need your attention. advertising 2. follow your gifts and talents discovering your gifts and talents will give meaning to your life and can lead to finding your purpose. here are a few questions that will help you discover what underlying gifts and talents you have: what comes naturally to you? when do you feel the best? what are you doing or experiencing then? in what way do you love to help other people? 3. make great connections spend time with the people that add to your life and lift you up. this could be anyone from friends to work colleagues. spend less time with people that drain your energy or constantly give negative vibes. jim rohn puts it this way, “you are the average of the five people you spend the most time with.” begin to notice how you feel around others. (hint: you should feel good.) advertising 4. goal setting if you want meaning in life, this means having a plan. you don’t have to sit down for five hours every monday setting goals for the rest of the week that you probably won’t complete anyway—please, don’t do this to yourself! but do have goals and a plan for achieving them. it shouldn’t be one of those things you hate to do, but instead have an idea of accomplishments you would like to see happen in you life and make a plan for working towards them by writing them down. then, most importantly, take action. get some inspirations about goals setting: 14 personal goals for a better you next year 5. help others helping other people helps you feel good, definitely makes you feel worthy, and gives you some sense of purpose. giving to others in time, money or helping them out in any way you can is a sure way to give yourself meaning in life. so, the question is this: do you know anyone you can help this week? advertising 6. do something different how about going to a museum, having lunch at an exclusive hotel in you hometown, or pampering yourself at home for the day? you are probably so stuck in a routine you think you don’t have the time for it. doing something different breaks the cycle of ‘doing’ life, and gives you an opportunity to experience a break from the norm and realize you’re missing out on some of life’s experiences that really matter. trust me, you will thank me for this! 7. quit watching tv seriously. i challenge you to no tv for a week, especially if you find it painstakingly impossible do without the news. you will see how this makes a difference in your life, and you may realize how addictive the box and all the negativity it portrays really is. want to put meaning back in your life? then turn off the tv and spend some time doing something meaningful. simple! 8. do something you’ve always wanted to do what’s that thing you always think about doing someday? well, guess what? your time has come, my friend, because you’re going to do it. advertising step 1. identify your ‘thing’. step 2. go do it. if this is an impossible two-step process for you right now, then start working towards, saving, learning or doing whatever it will take to make it happen. but make your first step! 9. find your purpose one of the most liberating things you can do in life, in my opinion, is find your purpose. this will give you all the meaning you require for your life. it’s what life is about: finding your purpose and following through by living it. your purpose is what drives you, what wakes you up in the morning, what gives you energy. if you do nothing else with your life, seek your purpose with all your heart so you can reap the benefits of a meaningful life! this article will help you figure out your purpose: how to find purpose in life and make yourself a better person more about meaning of life how to live a meaningful life: 10 inspiring ideas to find meaning what’s the purpose of life? a guide to live with meaning what is the purpose of life and what should you live for? featured photo credit: elijah hail via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what’s the purpose of life? a guide to live with meaning what is the purpose of life and what should you live for? 14 personal goals for a better you next year advertising advertising more by this author diana reid ceo - moxie house ltd how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 10 things people do differently to make their life happier 15 things happy people don’t do what to do as you get more stressful when chasing your dreams top 8 reasons why you should get angry advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness more by this author diana reid ceo - moxie house ltd how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 10 things people do differently to make their life happier 15 things happy people don’t do what to do as you get more stressful when chasing your dreams top 8 reasons why you should get angry trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next what is resilience and why is it important? think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.