millionaire trader preferred broker blog penny stocks 101 (guide) how to find good penny stocks 6 crazy day trading myths versus reality earnings per share guide after hours trading tips pre-market trading: prep techniques for traders operating income guide 37 stock market terms you should know how to short a stock (guide) more blog posts … press about tim sykes how the coronavirus sports ban can help you learn to trade smarter home » blog » trading psychology » how the coronavirus sports ban can help you learn to trade smarter by timothy sykes last updated on march 26, 2020 i may be disappointed by the sports ban … but also i think you can use this opportunity to learn to trade smarter. i love sports. growing up, they were a huge part of my life. i played tennis throughout my childhood. then i suffered a career-ending injury to my elbow. my career was cut short, but the lessons i learned through sports shaped me. the intense competition and drive i gained on the court helped me. i took those lessons and applied them to trading. how? after surgery, with time on my hands, i channeled my focus into learning the stock market. i was already experienced at putting in the grind to achieve success. i knew how to get good at something from the dedication and determination i developed through tennis. and i found success in the stock market — where the odds of success are only 10%.* (*my results are not typical. i’ve spent years developing exceptional skills and knowledge. always remember trading is risky. never risk more than you can afford.) table of contents 0.1 the sports ban silver lining 1 the global destruction of covid-19 1.1 covid-19 stock market effects 1.2 don’t assume the market will bounce back 2 america’s love for sports 2.1 sports allow us to forget 3 what’s next for america? 4 once-in-a-lifetime opportunity 4.1 learn to make money from home (or almost anywhere) 4.2 choose your level of commitment 4.3 trading challenge 5 bottom line: learn to trade smarter now the sports ban silver lining © 2020 millionaire media, llc sports are a rite of passage for many young children. but today … as our world faces an unprecedented coronavirus pandemic … sports are nowhere to be found. the nhl, nba, and pga have all suspended their seasons. america’s pastime is officially postponed. even march madness is canceled. it’s disappointing for fans and tough for the entire industry. but it can also be a chance for you to up your trading game. if you want to learn to trade smarter, dedication and determination are key. now, with the coronavirus sports ban, you have time on your hands. and it’s not only sports. president trump’s national emergency declaration is shutting everything down… the global destruction of covid-19 we’ve never seen anything like this. a lot of people are buying up blue-chip stocks, thinking we’ve hit the bottom. i know some rich people who bought boeing (nyse: ba) when it was around $150–$170 per share… then it tanked again to around $100. we don’t know where the bottom is. industries that have never closed are being forced to shut their doors. sunday morning, i felt like rick grimes waking up to the zombie apocalypse in “the walking dead.” everything was shutting down. stores were running out of food (except for beyond meat)… and there was no toilet paper. absolutely none. when it comes to life and death … i guess people are more worried about toilet paper than making the world a better place. as for the athletes, i sympathize with them. they’ve worked their entire lives to make it to the highest level. and now an unprecedented virus is destroying chances of winning championships. but at the same time, i admire the drastic steps organizations and institutions are taking to protect athletes, students, and the general population. when i first wrote about the coronavirus (or the covid-19 virus) about a month ago, i didn’t know how devastating it would be in the u.s. most of us have seen movies like “contagion” and the “pandemic” netflix documentary … but until now, those seemed fantastic and far-fetched. covid-19 stock market effects could we have seen this coming? absolutely. we could have prepared more. but hindsight’s always 20/20. on march 8, there were 500 confirmed cases in the u.s. on march 15, that number jumped to 3,000. on march 20, mayor bill de blasio declared new york city the epicenter of the crisis in the u.s. people who have it but don’t have symptoms are walking around thinking everything’s fine and spreading the virus even more. that puts us at more risk. the virus could mutate and become more deadly. there’s so much we don’t know about this pandemic. and too many people seem to think the virus is a joke. government officials attempted to calm the public … which only resulted in more misinformation spreading. then as more countries around the globe went on lockdown and the world saw a surge in cases… the stock market crashed … it’s down nearly 30% off its all-time highs from less than a month ago. we’re seeing crazy volatility. covid-19 isn’t the only cause of the drastic pullback and bear market … but it’s a major player. don’t assume the market will bounce back i often say i’m a glorified history teacher. and this is when history really matters. look at what’s happened with past pandemics. during the 1957 pandemic, stocks didn’t come back that quickly. same with the 1918 pandemic. look at the great depression. study! we don’t know what’s going to happen. we’re in great depression territory in terms of this crash — the price action is similar to 1929. again, we don’t know where the bottom is. it all depends on this virus, which is unpredictable. i’ve been doing this for over 20 years. i don’t know everything. but i find my experience helps me give good, sane, and conservative commentary and perspective. be careful who you follow. some of these ‘gurus’ aren’t bad people … but their lack of experience and knowledge can hurt you. there’s so much opportunity if you get away from the mainstream strategy bs out there. focus on being a meticulous trader. for example, biomerica, inc. (nyse: bmra) announced its rapid-results coronavirus test on march 17. on march 18, it opened at around $6. it went up to the $14s in after-hours trading. then there’s blue apron (nyse: aprn), which quadrupled this week. you don’t have to invest in etfs and guessing-game blue-chip stocks. you just have to be a little meticulous. the best investment you can make is in yourself. i’ll get to several ways you can do that in a bit. america’s love for sports © 2020 millionaire media, llc with all this panic and uncertainty, it feels like professional sports may not return this year. no one can say for sure. we’re only in the first inning of this pandemic. we’re living in desperate times with no sports to ease the burden. why are sports so important to us anyway? i think showtime’s hit show “billions” explains our relationship with sports perfectly… “… sports franchises are how we knight people in this country…” (check out this recent episode of the steadytrade podcast where hosts tim bohen and kim ann curtin explore the myths behind “billions.”) we worship our favorite players and teams. fans paint their bodies, party all night to celebrate wins, and live vicariously through athletes. and it’s not just in the u.s. people all over the world love sports with a fanatic adoration. sports allow us to forget in 2017, americans spent an estimated $56 billion on sporting events. that’s a massive industry to shut down. tv networks and pro sports organizations will face difficult times if the leagues remain suspended for an extended period of time. money aside — sporting events bring people together. in the current political climate and intense polarization, i feel we need sports more than ever. and we’re in such unprecedented territory, people are scared. no one knows what to expect. how long will this virus last? how much danger are we truly in? will we survive this? if america is one thing, it’s resilient. and a lot of us like to rally behind sports. it gives us a point of focus and pride. for example, after the events of september 11, 2001 americans were scared. the largest attack on domestic soil had the entire country on edge. when president george w. bush threw the opening pitch at the next yankees game, it was a powerful symbol of american resilience. new york city and the u.s. were able to start the long healing process and rally behind our favorite pastime. the few hours of live sports united a lot of the country and drove the yankees to the world series championship. what’s next for america? statista estimates that over half the population watches more than three to five hours of nfl every week during the regular season. that’s just the nfl. once you factor in the mlb, nhl, mls, and nba, it’s likely most americans spend close to 10 hours a week watching sports. and now, poof … sports are gone. so what should you do with your extra 10 hours every week? study! study! study! learn to trade. if you already know how to trade, learn to trade smarter. this is a perfect opportunity to focus on your education and improve your life. a lot of people will probably sit around, play video games, or watch netflix. but you’re different … right? you’re dedicated to actively improving your life. (looking for more materials to help you trade smarter? start with my book “an american hedge fund.” then move on to “the complete penny stock course” by my student jamil.) in 2018, netflix viewers spent over 52 billion (billion!) minutes watching “the office.” they spent nearly 33 billion minutes watching “friends.” don’t add to this statistic. don’t be lazy right now. this is your… once-in-a-lifetime opportunity © 2020 millionaire media, llc look … i know the phrase is cliché. but this quarantine is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. how often does the world force you to self-quarantine for 14 days? are the conditions ideal? no. i’m not gonna sugar coat it … it’s scary out there. but as warren buffet says: “be fearful when others are greedy and greedy when others are fearful.” the entire world is scared right now. so get greedy — for knowledge. learn to trade smarter and be self-sufficient in the market. don’t just shut down and weather the storm. we will get through this. i want to see each and every one of you better off than the lazy competition. this is a unique moment in time. and you can learn so much from the markets right now. and given how a huge part of the world is shutting down, it’s a smart time to… learn to make money from home (or almost anywhere) here’s some inspiration for you … more millionaires made their fortunes in the great depression than any other time in history. it sounds counterintuitive, but it’s true… times of economic or social uncertainty can offer unparalleled opportunities to those willing to take risks. stocks are cheap, money is tight, and risks are high. during these times, most people freeze. they don’t act … instead, they let opportunities slip away. don’t let this be you. will covid-19 plunge the u.s. into a recession? i honestly don’t know. but i’m glad we’ve entered a bear market. i’ve been praying for one for years. i think it’s healthy. it’s part of the natural economic cycle. the u.s. just experienced its longest bull run in history. the economy is simply taking a break. things will cycle through and we’ll eventually go higher. take this time to study. many of you have time off to work your butts off. not sure where to begin? choose your level of commitment i’m all about education and opportunity. so i have a lot of ways to help you learn to trade smarter. you can choose what works for you, starting with… … my completely free penny stock guide here. bookmark it and refer to it as often as you need. want to know which stocks i’m watching? subscribe to my no-cost weekly watchlist here. this is a great way to learn how to choose stocks to watch and the process. i upload videos about trading to youtube regularly. subscribe to my channel — it’s yet another no-cost way to continue your market education. if you’re a bookworm, get “the complete penny stock course” by my student jamil. it combines all my lessons into one book. it’s a great way to learn the rules i follow when i trade. (for the record, i trade with these rules and use these brokers.) for access to my 6,300+ video lessons, subscribe to pennystocking silver. that’s one more way you can learn from my 20+ years of experience trading penny stocks. too many of my students complain they don’t have time to watch all the video lessons. stop making excuses. and for the ultimate level of commitment, apply for my… trading challenge my most comprehensive course is my trading challenge. fair warning … you gotta apply, and not all applicants are accepted. you must be willing to commit. that means watching all the videos, doing your research, and building your knowledge account. my top students and i give students live q&a webinars every week. all of my top students are trading challenge members. that includes six- and seven-figure students. and now, tim grittani’s passed the $10 million profit milestone … you can have the chance to learn to trade smarter from an eight-figure true master trader. dedicate yourself to my lessons now and you can emerge from this crisis more prepared than the competition. apply for my trading challenge today. i wanna give props to my student popcheez. he reports making over $35k this month using my strategy.* that’s awesome. solid work. 3:37 pm popcheez → timothysykes: “best trading month of my life […] using our guru’s techniques! thanks everyone!!” this is why i love penny stocks. everyone hates on them, which makes the patterns more predictable. it’s crazy. i don’t like guessing games. i don’t want to invest in something, then worry about whether i’m gonna make or lose money. i like my patterns and they’ve worked for me for over 20 years of trading. [*student results aren’t typical. most traders lose — around 90%. trading is risky. never risk more than you can afford.] bottom line: learn to trade smarter now © 2020 millionaire media, llc i have no idea how long it will take to recover from this coronavirus crisis. the economic impact of this will be huge. remember, it’s not just sports … tourism, small businesses, entertainers around the world will take a huge hit. we could be out of the woods in a few months … or it could take several years. don’t let this scare you… uncertainty breeds opportunity. my question to you: how will you answer the call? hit those books. it’s time to study. have more questions? get in my chat room. what do you think about the coronavirus pandemic, the stock market crash, and the mass cancellations? comment below — let’s keep the conversation going. share how much has this post helped you? (2 votes, average: 5.00 out of 5) loading... about tim sykes is a penny stock trader and teacher who became a self-made millionaire by the age of 22 by trading $12,415 of bar mitzvah money. after becoming disenchanted with the hedge fund world, he established the tim sykes trading challenge to teach aspiring traders how to follow his trading strategies. he’s been featured in a variety of media outlets including cnn, larry king, steve harvey, forbes, men’s journal, and more. he’s also an active philanthropist and environmental activist, a co-founder of karmagawa, and has donated millions of dollars to charity. read more have what it takes to become successful? let me walk you step-by-step through how i earn profits. take action now. work with tim get my weekly watchlist, free signup to jump start your trading education! 100% privacy. i will never spam you! tim's best content current all time case studies why your trading chat room is key coronavirus risk: what’s really at stake how the coronavirus sports ban can help you learn to trade smarter millionaire mentor update: urgent coronavirus update the pandemic effect: coronavirus stocks and sectors the bear market edge: coronavirus stock sympathy plays penny stocks 101 the best video lessons every penny stock trader and short seller should watch 10 key stock market lessons from my first millionaire student** 5 lessons from my steve harvey show interview how i helped a student turn $1,500 into $1 million in 3 years my review of ‘trading tickers’ the best stock trading guide ever created case study: how i taught tim grittani to make 1075% return in 16 months case study: how i helped a mother of two become a full time trader day trading testimonials "i'm a 29 year old single mother of two. i do not have a regular 9 to 5. i am currently day trading as a living. prior to discovering timothy sykes i played around with a couple other mentors and penny pick sites. sadly not being taught the basic fundamentals i lost $5500-terrible! i found tim's website in may and now i'm up 50k learning from tim sykes. i am extremely grateful for tim, he is the truth hands down!" - asheya burton learn how i turned $12,415 into $5,119,603 trading stocks - timothy sykes of profit.ly click here to learn more comments (1) march 26, 2020 at 11:53 am timothy sykes hey everyone, as many of you already know i grew up in a middle class family and didn't have many luxuries. but through trading i was able to change my circumstances --not just for me -- but for my parents as well. i now want to help you and thousands of other people from all around the world achieve similar results! which is why i've launched my trading challenge. i’m extremely determined to create a millionaire trader out of one my students and hopefully it will be you. so when you get a chance make sure you check it out. ps: don't forget to check out my free penny stock guide, it will teach you everything you need to know about trading. :) leave a reply cancel reply about timothy sykes i became a self-made millionaire by the age of 21, trading thousands of penny stocks - yep you read that right, penny stocks. you may have heard ... read more tim's important resources penny stocking 101: how to get started with penny stocks which penny stocks to buy how to invest in penny stocks home about affiliates chatroom contact tim ** results may not be typical and may vary from person to person. making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. there are inherent risks involved with investing in the stock market, including the loss of your investment. past performance in the market is not indicative of future results. any investment is at your own risk. see terms of service here.. millionaire media 80 s.w. 8th street suite 2000 miami, florida 33130 united states (203) 980-1361 this is for information purposes only as millionaire media llc nor timothy sykes is registered as a securities broker-dealer or an investment adviser. no information herein is intended as securities brokerage, investment, tax, accounting or legal advice, as an offer or solicitation of an offer to sell or buy, or as an endorsement, recommendation or sponsorship of any company, security or fund. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes cannot and does not assess, verify or guarantee the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information, the suitability or profitability of any particular investment, or the potential value of any investment or informational source. the reader bears responsibility for his/her own investment research and decisions, should seek the advice of a qualified securities professional before making any investment, and investigate and fully understand any and all risks before investing. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes in no way warrants the solvency, financial condition, or investment advisability of any of the securities mentioned in communications or websites. in addition, millionaire media llc and timothy sykes accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this information. this information is not intended to be used as the sole basis of any investment decision, nor should it be construed as advice designed to meet the investment needs of any particular investor. past performance is not necessarily indicative of future returns. ©2007-2020 timothysykes™ all rights reserved. millionaire publishing llc terms of service and user agreement privacy policy (statement) earnings disclosure member agreement code of conduct what people are saying we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.✖