home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write stories by mary jaksch you want to write. but you don’t know what to write about. if this sounds familiar, why not write short stories? it is easier, shorter, and less complicated than writing a novel. we’ve compiled some quotes from the greats to get you started on your short story. the same quotes will also help you finish! 1. “a short story must have a single mood and every sentence must build towards it.” ~ edgar allan poe 2. “short stories are tiny windows into other worlds and other minds and other dreams. they are journeys you can make to the far side of the universe and still be back in time for dinner.” 3. “when well told, a story captured the subtle movement of change. if a novel was a map of a country, a story was the bright silver pin that marked the crossroads.” ~ ann patchett 4.“short story collections are the literary equivalent of canapés, tapas and mezze in the world of gastronomy: delightful assortments of tasty morsels to whet the reader’s appetite.” ~ alex morritt 5. “so many people can now write competent stories that the short story is in danger of dying of competence.” ~ flannery o’connor 6. “finally i do like best of all stories whose necessity is in the implied recognition that someplace out there there exists an urgency—a chaos—, an insanity, a misrule of some dire sort which can end life as we know it but for the fact that this very story is written, this order found, this style determined, the worst averted, and we are beneficiaries of that order by being readers.” ~ richard ford 7. “long fiction is wonderful and you can lose yourself in it as a reader and as a writer, but short stories don’t allow the same kind of immersion. often the best stories hold you back and make you witness them. this may be one of the reasons some people reject the form. that and the fact that they are harder work to read. a story will not let you get comfortable and settle in. it is like a stool that is so small that you must always be aware of sitting.” ~ isobelle carmody 8. “write what you like; there is no other rule.” ~ o. henry 9. “a short story is not a portrayal of life. when life becomes disconsolate and the fear for the unknown seeps through the holes on the walls that we thought could protect us, telling a story could greatly help. the tradition of storytelling was oral, once. it’s history. the wisdom in this history was the possibility to abide. stories were medicines to drive away the ghosts of loneliness, boredom and ignorance.” ~ anu lal 10. “a short story is a précis: it is an essential essence, a sharp quality distilled from quantitative narrative.” ~ richard bunning 11. “if we’re lucky, writer and reader alike, we’ll finish the last line or two of a short story and then just sit for a minute, quietly. ideally, we’ll ponder what we’ve just written or read; maybe our hearts or intellects will have been moved off the peg just a little from where they were before. our body temperature will have gone up, or down, by a degree. then, breathing evenly and steadily once more, we’ll collect ourselves, writers and readers alike, get up, “created of warm blood and nerves” as a chekhov character puts it, and go on to the next thing: life. always life.” ~ raymond carver 12. “for me, the short story is not a character sketch, a mouse trap, an epiphany, a slice of suburban life. it is the flowering of a symbol center. it is a poem grafted onto sturdier stock.” ~ william h. gass 13. “i am a dash man and not a miler, and it is probable that i will never write a novel. so far the novels of this war have had too much of the strength, maturity and craftsmanship critics are looking for, and too little of the glorious imperfections which teeter and fall off the best minds. the men who have been in this war deserve some sort of trembling melody rendered without embarrassment or regret. i’ll watch for that book.” ~ j.d. salinger 14. “how are we to live is a collection of short stories, not a novel. this in itself is a disappointment. it seems to diminish the book’s authority, making the author seem like somebody who is just hanging on to the gates of literature, rather than safely settled inside.” ~ alice munro 15. “you become a different writer when you approach a short story. when things are not always having to represent other things, you find real human beings begin to cautiously appear on your pages.” ~ zadie smith 16.“write a short story every week. it’s not possible to write 52 bad short stories in a row.” ~ ray bradbury 17. “short stories consume you faster. they’re connected to brevity. with the short story, you are up against mortality. i know how tough they are as a form, but they’re also a total joy.” ~ ali smith 18. “the short story is a very natural mode of storytelling; most stories can be told quickly. i always think of them as like a tightrope walk – every sentence is a step along the rope, and you can so easily misplace your step and break your neck.” ~ kevin barry 19. “i find it satisfying and intellectually stimulating to work with the intensity, brevity, balance and word play of the short story.” ~ annie proulx 20. “a short story is a shard, a sliver, a vignette. it’s a biopsy on the human condition but it doesn’t have this capacity to think autonomously for itself.” ~ will self with all this inspiration, you should be raring to get started on writing your own short story. but before you do, add the tips that excite you in the comments, to inspire others. and if you liked this post, share it on social media! tweet pin55 share79 134 shares related posts kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story by laura tong 34 first lines of famous books you wished you’d written [infographic] by laura tong why hemingway’s advice is outdated (and what to do instead) by shreya vikram about the author mary jaksch mary jaksch is best known for her exceptional training for writers at writetodone.com and for her cutting-edge book, youthful aging secrets. in her “spare” time, mary is also the brains behind goodlifezen.com, a zen master, a mother, and a 5th degree black belt. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >