start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising smartcut productivity advertising how to have a successful career and a fulfilling personal life dr. kerry petsinger entrepreneur, mindset & performance coach, & doctor of physical therapy read full profile share pin it tweet share email several years ago, after years of trying, my husband and i became parents to 3 kids within 19 months. i became fiercely determined to have a totally fulfilling life as a mom, and be very present for my kids, and also reach really big career goals. that was my definition of having it all – and i was on fire to figure out how to make it happen. i quickly discovered i wasn’t alone. in fact, many people are seeking a sense of balance in their lives. as stephen covey says, “the challenge of work-life balance is without question, one of the most significant struggles faced by modern man.” it can be incredibly difficult to feel a sense of balance when we are juggling careers, personal responsibilities, family time, self-care, recreational activities, social time, community service, and more. i knew in order to achieve huge career goals and also be a very hands-on, present mom, i would need to streamline my life. i would need to eliminate the non-essential activities i was doing. i would need to cut out the time-sucking, empty activities like mindlessly scrolling through social media or checking email a million times per day, and be very intentional with my time every day. each and every day, it would be important to tell my time where to go. it required significant focus on my priorities, and a ruthless elimination of many time-sucking activities, but i stuck with my determination to achieve career success and also a fulfilling personal life, and i made it happen. by being very focused and purposeful about where i spent my time and energy, i achieved the elusive sense of balance, and now i help other entrepreneurs and driven professionals achieve it too. people who have achieved fulfilling, successful lives have specific habits. while most people find it very difficult to be amazing and satisfied both at work and in their personal lives, the successful, fulfilled people know it’s not impossible. learn from the habits of successful and fulfilled people to reach higher levels of fulfilling success: advertising 1. have clarity about what you want successful, fulfilled people know exactly what they want to achieve. they know what’s important to them and set crystal clear targets to aim for in their careers and lives. these people don’t have vague aspirations. instead, they set very specific goals that align with their priorities, and they direct their time and efforts toward achieving these goals. find out more about how to identify the thing you want most in why i can be the only 8% of people who reach the goal every single time. 2. define success on your terms successful, fulfilled people define success their own way. they understand they can only be satisfied if they achieve success that truly matters to them. while they appreciate the value of hard work, their definition of a successful life is often more holistic than just achieving financial results. 3. stand your ground successful, fulfilled people understand the importance of saying “no.” they set boundaries so they can focus their lives and work on what matters most. they avoid falling prey to enticing goals that don’t align with their true purpose, priorities, and passions. 4. be highly productive successful, fulfilled people know how to get things done. they know in order to have “it all” and balance their careers and personal lives, they need to avoid wasting time. when they aspire to do something, they get it done. take a look at how successful people stay productive in 10 habits successful people give up to increase their productivity. advertising 5. be strategic with time successful, fulfilled people are intentional with their time. they strategically fit their work into their ideal lifestyle. as a result, their hard-earned success doesn’t feel overwhelming. try to perceive time differently and you will start to make every second count. read more about how to gain more time like making money. 6. make decisions confidently successful, fulfilled people powerfully make decisions. they make choices that align with who they are and what they truly want. they courageously turn down opportunities that don’t line up with their values. the best way is to start to build confidence from within, check out this article about how to build confidence from scratch. 7. know your priorities successful, fulfilled people have clarity about their priorities. they work hard, but avoid a “succeed at all costs” mentality. while they achieve great results in their careers, they also are high performers in the other areas of life that matter to them. learn to organize your life by setting the right priorities for yourself in how to organize your life by priority and not urgency. advertising 8. don’t get jealous of others successful, fulfilled people congratulate and praise the achievements of others. they don’t feel threatened by the success of others. instead, they are happy to create their own version of success and they greatly enjoy their lifestyle. read more about the impact of endless comparison with others in the cost of envy. 9. be disciplined successful, fulfilled people know they are in charge of creating their best lives. they realize that ultimately, they are in control of what they do with their lives, and they accept this power. they see the vision of who they want to be and they stick to their plan. learn more about the importance of self-discipline in why the conscientious mind is a successful mind. 10. know how to delegate successful, fulfilled people declutter their lives. they delegate tasks at work and in their personal lives. as a result, they can enjoy more time freedom and do more of what they love. going is alone doesn’t work. if you want to know more about the benefits of delegating tasks to others, read the delights of delegation. 11. be grateful but not complacent successful, fulfilled people appreciate what they have. however, they also strive to achieve more of what truly matters. they do this because they know they will use their success to make a positive impact on the world. advertising a fulfilling life is not an aspiration, but an everyday habit building habits takes time but you can start with these small things: get clear about your priorities. who do you most want to be? what do you want your life to be like? these questions can be tough and can be an evolving process, but when you are clear about what matters most to you, you can start eliminating the activities that don’t align with what matters most. write out a schedule for your day. when you tell your time where to go, you can decrease the time spent on time-sucking, empty activities. being intentional with your time can help you achieve your career and personal goals. decrease the noise. we are bombarded every day by thousands of distractions that threaten to take our time away from what matters most. very simple (yet not always easy) strategies such as shutting off our phones, or only checking email at set times, can help us be more present, productive, and fulfilled. achieving high levels of career success while having a satisfying personal life is definitely possible. i’ve done it, and so can you. featured photo credit: stocksnap via stocksnap.io share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to build confidence from scratch the cost of envy how to gain more time like making money advertising advertising more by this author dr. kerry petsinger entrepreneur, mindset & performance coach, & doctor of physical therapy 5 signs you’re ready for a career change feeling stuck in life? how to never get stuck again how to find the purpose of life and start living a fulfilling life don’t like your job? here are some solutions. how people make decisions that are bad for them advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author dr. kerry petsinger entrepreneur, mindset & performance coach, & doctor of physical therapy 5 signs you’re ready for a career change feeling stuck in life? how to never get stuck again how to find the purpose of life and start living a fulfilling life don’t like your job? here are some solutions. how people make decisions that are bad for them trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next why the conscientious mind is a successful mind why i can be the only 8% of people who reach the goal every single time how to organize your life by priority and not urgency how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.