start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising relationships advertising published on march 25, 2020 how being vulnerable leads to a healthy and fulfilling relationship sylvia smith sylvia is a big believer in living consciously and encourages couples to adopt its principles in their relationships. read full profile share pin it tweet share email what does it mean to be vulnerable in a relationship? if you look up the word vulnerability in the dictionary, the results don’t look all that promising. you’ll end up seeing expressions like, “capable of being wounded or hurt” or “susceptible to attacks.” we can all agree that nobody in their right mind wants to be hurt or feel weak, especially not in front of someone they love. the good news is, being vulnerable in front of your partner isn’t a weakness at all — it’s actually something that will strengthen your romantic relationship. to be vulnerable with a partner means showing them your true self, including your fears, dreams, and emotions. however, not everyone is comfortable showing vulnerability in relationships — that’s why we’re here to help! keep reading to find out how being vulnerable will help your relationship and 6 ways to make it happen. table of contents why is it important to show vulnerability in relationships? how to show vulnerability in relationships the bottom line more tips on vulnerability why is it important to show vulnerability in relationships? being completely open and honest with your spouse or partner can be a little scary at first. advertising after all, you want your partners to see the best in you. you don’t want them to know what keeps you up at night or point out your insecurities. however, there are many benefits to being vulnerable with your significant other. here are some of the ways that vulnerability in relationships can help strengthen them. humanize yourself when we are in a relationship with someone, we want them to see the best in us. we want to seem absolutely perfect. perfection is great when you’re filling out a job application, but not when you’re trying to connect with a romantic partner. perfection is boring, unattainable, and may just leave your partner feeling bad about themselves. on the other hand, the more vulnerable you are, the more relatable and “human” you become to your partner. boost partner intimacy intimacy is both a sexual and emotional bond you share with your partner, and you cannot have satisfying intimacy without vulnerability in the mix. showing your vulnerable side to your spouse means giving yourself to them wholeheartedly. strengthen empathy it’s easy to have empathy for someone’s thoughts, feelings, and problems when you know who they are deep down. the more willing partners are to share vulnerable moments, the stronger their empathy will be for one another. embrace your true self as you open up and connect with your spouse or partner, you start to build trust in one another. your significant other knows you’ll always be honest with them, and you know that your partner will never judge your thoughts or feelings, which can help you begin to let go of some of your self-judgment. advertising open up to true love as cheesy as it might sound, it’s true! the walls you’ve built up in your heart were put there to protect you from getting hurt, but they are also preventing you from fully loving and committing to someone new. how to show vulnerability in relationships for some, showing vulnerability in relationships is awkward, emotional, and sometimes downright uncomfortable. so, how do you do it?[1] here are some simple tips to help you learn how to open up and share your inner self. 1. take baby steps you can’t learn to run until you learn to walk. being vulnerable with your spouse doesn’t mean you have to share your every insecurity right off the bat. start small by opening up about little things. the longer you practice opening up about the little things, the easier it will be to start sharing bigger parts of your life with your partner. 2. be open about your struggles if you’re someone who doesn’t naturally share their feelings, be honest about it! let your partner know that you struggle with vulnerability and reassure them that your feelings on the matter have nothing to do with who they are as a person. tell them this is something that you’re working on and ask for their patience as you go through this journey together. advertising 3. get to the root of your discomfort if you’re not crazy about opening up with your spouse or partner, it can be helpful to ask yourself why. if you love and trust your partner, why wouldn’t you want to take your relationship to the next level? it could be that you’ve been burned in the past by a friend, romantic partner, or family member, and now you’re reluctant to trust someone new with your heart. whatever the case, getting to the bottom of your refusal to share can help you work through past problems. 4. be honest we’re often so caught in what we think our partner wants us to be, especially at the beginning of a new relationship, that we sometimes forget that the person we are deep down is pretty awesome, too. practice being honest with your significant other. when they ask for your opinion, give it. don’t tip-toe around the question or give the answer you think they want to hear. be uniquely you. 5. ask for help if you’re struggling, don’t be afraid to ask your partner to lend a hand/a listening ear/whatever you need at that moment. the more willing you are to ask for help, the easier it will be to express your worries, insecurities, etc. with your spouse. in turn, you will learn how to communicate and build emotional security. advertising if you’re not sure how to go about asking for help, this article may be able to help. 6. practice self-love the more you love yourself, the easier it will be to open up to other people about who you are. you have to be able to look in the mirror and say, “i’m not perfect, and that’s okay!” this isn’t an overnight journey by any means, but loving your good qualities and being okay with the ones that still need work will help you feel comfortable sharing your truths with the one you love. the bottom line the thought of being vulnerable in relationships may make you queasy at first, but the more you do it, the more natural it will feel. strengthen your relationship, build trust, and establish empathy by showing your partner your real thoughts and feelings. more tips on vulnerability why showing vulnerability actually proves your strength 5 reasons to embrace vulnerability accept yourself (flaws and all): 7 benefits of being vulnerable featured photo credit: priscilla du preez via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ huffington post: how to be more vulnerable in your relationship (even if it scares you) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to ask for help when you feel silly to do so why showing vulnerability actually proves your strength 5 reasons to embrace vulnerability advertising advertising more by this author sylvia smith sylvia is a big believer in living consciously and encourages couples to adopt its principles in their relationships. how being vulnerable leads to a healthy and fulfilling relationship how the 5 love languages help strengthen your relationship 12 marriage books couples should read for a healthy relationship how to spend more quality time with your partner 8 important lessons you can learn from a failed marriage advertising trending in relationships 1 how being vulnerable leads to a healthy and fulfilling relationship 2 10 core values of a lasting relationship 3 can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? 4 how to make long distance relationships work for you 5 5 powerful ways journal writing changes your life more by this author sylvia smith sylvia is a big believer in living consciously and encourages couples to adopt its principles in their relationships. how being vulnerable leads to a healthy and fulfilling relationship how the 5 love languages help strengthen your relationship 12 marriage books couples should read for a healthy relationship how to spend more quality time with your partner 8 important lessons you can learn from a failed marriage trending in relationships 1 how being vulnerable leads to a healthy and fulfilling relationship 2 10 core values of a lasting relationship 3 can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? 4 how to make long distance relationships work for you 5 5 powerful ways journal writing changes your life read next how to build loyalty in your relationship how to handle a cheating spouse 15 relationship milestones that are worth celebrating how the 5 love languages help strengthen your relationship advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in relationships 1 how being vulnerable leads to a healthy and fulfilling relationship 2 10 core values of a lasting relationship 3 can you really fix a toxic relationship (and how)? 4 how to make long distance relationships work for you 5 5 powerful ways journal writing changes your life read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.