start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising happiness mental strength advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to find happiness in your everyday life luay rahil luay rahil is a speaker, and the founder of lead with integrity. read full profile share pin it tweet share email if happiness is free, how come people cannot find happiness? i have invested the last 15 years of my life studying happiness and personal development. today, i will share with you how to find happiness in your everyday life. let me get started with some history… what if i told you today that everything you know about happiness is wrong? what if i told you that your brain was not designed to be happy? it all started about 200 thousand years ago, our ancestors lived in caves. men would only leave the cave to hunt, and women would only leave to gather food. men were called hunters, women were called gathers. both genders had two goals for surviving and thriving. happiness was not something that they cared about. the only reason we survived and other creatures didn’t is our mind. our biggest weapon was not a stone or a stick, it was our brain. we were not the biggest animal or the strongest, but we are the smartest. the mental ability that helped us survive has kept us unhappy and stressed for a long time. we survived because our brains focus on the negative aspect of life. scientists call this tendency “negativity bias”.[1] this negative bias allows us to pay attention to any signs of danger, and react. that is the reason most of us are afraid of the unknown and i’m convinced you can not be afraid and happy at the same time. our brains might have evolved, but it is still wired the same way, we care about survival and safety more than anything. now, that you are aware of this negative bias, it will be easier for you to find happiness in your everyday life. this article will talk about 10 scientific proven tips to find happiness in your everyday life: 1. find your why forget about your goals, think about your purpose. think about the underlying reasons you want to accomplish your goals. the classic author james addison wrote about finding happiness, he said:[2] “there are three grand essentials to happiness in life, something to do, something to love, and something to hope for.” if you can find something that you love to do and can make a real impact doing it, that is your why. advertising simon sinek popularized this term in 2009, in his book find your why, he recounts this story. he once sat next to a man on a plane. sinek asked this man one question: what do you do? the man responded that he has been living his dream for 20 years. sinek was intrigued, so he asked more questions, the man responded, my company produces steel. how can steel make this man happy? the man clarified “we make products that are easy to recycle.” this man found something to do: produce steel. something to love, keep the environment clean. something to hope for, creating a safe environment for the future generation. what do you love to do? i love helping people create better lives by sharing tips, tools, and strategies to move their lives and businesses forward. that is my why. what is yours? you can find yours here: how to find purpose in life and make yourself a better person 2. be present when you are driving a familiar route, your brain starts to daydream. it shifts its attention from driving to your internal thoughts, we call this mind-wandering. have you experienced this? mind-wandering is a special human characteristic. it allows our brains to drift away from the task-at-hand to focus something else. it helps us to be more creative, but it hinders our ability to live and enjoy the moment. matt killingsworth is a former harvard researcher, he believes that people want a lot of things out of life, but they mainly want happiness.[3] he studied our brains, and he concluded that our wandering mind is responsible for our unhappiness. he believes that our wandering brains have more impact on our happiness than our income, education, gender, and marital status. he conducted scientific research over multiple years, he asked people three questions: how do you feel? what are you doing? are you thinking about something other than what you are doing? if people answered “yes” to the last question, their brains were not present at the moment and they were less happy. he concluded that being present and happiness are correlated. it seems that being present is essential to our happiness. if you go to a concert, watch the concert through your eyes, and not through your camera lens. if you take a road trip, don’t worry about reaching your destination, enjoy the road. if you have dinner with your family, ask them questions, and listen to their answers. be present. try these 34 ways to live in the moment and grow in the moment. 3. care, connect, create humans are social creatures, we like to be connected to other people and we like to take care of others. surround yourself with people who care about you and you care about them. connect with old friends. make it a point to show your friends and family that you care about them and that you are grateful for their presence in your life. connect with your loved ones on a deeper level. my most important job in life is being a father, and taking care of my family. i make a conscious effort to have dinner with my family every day. i go out with my wife every sunday. i coach my kids’ soccer teams, i attend their karate practice, and i engage with them every day. advertising i call or text my friends as much as possible. i check on my parents every day. i’m intentional about connecting with my family, friends and everyone i come in contact with. create something with your hands, build something. dan ariely is one of my favorite behavioral economists, he emphasizes the importance of using our hands to create things.[4] he believes that creating things with our hands leads to our happiness. he points out that ikea understands this concept, and that is why they sell complicated furniture parts with vague instructions manual and ask customers to assemble them. the process is horrible, but the satisfaction that people get after they build their own furniture is enormous. build something with your hands, the joy that it brings to your heart is amazing. connect with people that you care about, and create a life worth sharing. start today. 4. close your open files in their best-selling book, willpower: rediscovering the greatest human strength, roy f.baumeister and john tierney estimate the average person has about 150 unfinished tasks that he or she thinks about all day long. i have about 3 unfinished tasks that i’m thinking about right now, leaking faucet, fixing my ac, and adding more products to my website. these tasks are called open loops, and the more open files you have, the less happy you are. you need to close most of the open files in your head, the easiest way to do that is brain dump or what i call “drain the pain”. write all of your unfinished tasks down. this tactic will trick your brain because your brain feels better when you write your tasks down. it tricks your brain to think that you did something about it. 5. celebrate every victory football players celebrate every down, every tackle, and every touchdown. they do not pay attention to the score, they celebrate everything. adopt this mindset, celebrate every time you complete a task. if you answer an email, stop and celebrate for a moment. if you have a difficult conversation with your coworker, enjoy your accomplishment. dr. rick hanson advises people to savor positive experiences.[5] he encourages people to celebrate after any accomplishment. this practice will train your brain to move from a positive state to a positive trait. what did you celebrate today? 6. exercise exercise increases endorphins reduces cortisol and adrenaline in our body. it is also a proven remedy for depression and anxiety. advertising according to the new york times, small amounts of exercise have a big impact on our happiness.[6] people who work out at least once a week are more cheerful than those who do not exercise. tony robbins believes that motion creates emotion. if you do not like how you feel, go to the gym, walk outside, or practice yoga. the benefit of 12 minutes of exercise can last up to 12 hours. if you hate exercise, this article will change your mind. 7. sleep according to the american psychological association, more sleep would make you happier, healthier and safer.[7] from my experience, i can assure you that a tired person is not a happy person. you need to sleep to function. sleep is very important to your overall sense of happiness and wellbeing. lack of sleep slows your reaction time, impairs your memory, reduces your happiness. it also weakens your immune system and slows your critical thinking. if you want to be happy, pay attention to your sleep quantity and quality. sleep is critical to your happiness, do not sacrifice sleep to watch another episode on netflix. 8. declutter your life declutter your space and your life, clutter leads to stress. get rid of anything that you have not used in 18 months. do not let physical objects occupy an emotional space in your life. let it go. to get yourself started, start by recycling three items from your wardrobe today. mike hanski talked about the importance of decluttering: “clean homes and organized spaces are proven to reduce stress, improve happiness, and even improve your eating and exercise habits.” keep your environment clean and gain more happiness. advertising decluttering is not about getting rid of stuff, it’s about getting control of your life. ask what is the purpose of everything you have? what value does it provide? can you digitize it? whom would it hurt if you get rid of it? here’s how to declutter your life and reduce stress (the ultimate guide). 9. eat chocolate a study in 1996 showed that chocolate causes our brains to release endorphins making us happier.[8] chocolate has phenylethylamine, it is considered a natural antidepressant, tryptophan which produces a feeling of happiness, and caffeine that is well known as a wake-up drug. there is another study that was published by the national library of medicine proved that eating chocolate improves our health and improves our mood.[9] i eat chocolate daily, and i enjoy the taste and the benefit of my habit. go to the closest store, get some dark chocolate and enjoy it. 10. sing and dance in 2013, pharrell williams released a song that has been heard more than one billion times around the world. what is the name of the song? happy. happy spread across the world like a virus that can not be stopped. it invited listeners to either clap their hands or move their bodies. pharrell williams understood people a deep desire to be happy, so he repeated the word “happy” 57 times in less than four minutes. if you doubt the power of music on your mood, think again. i challenge you to listen to this song and not to be happy. the power of this song is its simple lyrics, in fact, the first words that williams said were “it might seem crazy what i’m about to say.” do not take music for granted, great songs move us. it forces our body to vibrate and experience the moment. if you want to find happiness in everyday life, follow these steps and i guarantee you that you will be happier by the end of the week. more about finding happiness 26 things to remember if you want to be truly happy 20 secrets genuinely happy people never told you how to be happy: why pursuing happiness will make you unhappy featured photo credit: preslie hirsch via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: our brain’s negative bias [2] ^ doctor alan zimmerman: the three grand essentials of happiness [3] ^ matt killingsworth: our happiest moments: matt killingsworth at tedxcambridge 2011 [4] ^ dan ariely: why we’re so attached to our own creations — even when they’re ugly [5] ^ dr. rick hanson: hardwiring happiness [6] ^ the new york times: even a little exercise might make us happier [7] ^ american psychological association: more sleep would make us happier, healthier and safer [8] ^ science focus: does chocolate make you happy? [9] ^ plos one.: chocolate and health-related quality of life: a prospective study share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to be happy: why pursuing happiness will make you unhappy 34 ways to live in the moment and grow in the moment quality or quantity? why don’t you sleep on it advertising advertising more by this author luay rahil luay rahil is a speaker, and the founder of lead with integrity. how to find happiness in your everyday life why are you stuck? 5 questions to shift your mindset and get unstuck why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author luay rahil luay rahil is a speaker, and the founder of lead with integrity. how to find happiness in your everyday life why are you stuck? 5 questions to shift your mindset and get unstuck why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next 26 things to remember if you want to be truly happy 15 surprising and science-backed health effects of dark chocolate the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.