wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials » how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime last updated on february 14th, 2019 by editorial staff 1.1k shares share tweet share pin are you planning to move your wordpress site to a new hosting company or a different server? the biggest risk when switching web hosting or migrating a website to a new server is data loss and downtime. both of these can make your website temporarily inaccessible to users and search engines which can result in loss of sales and search engine rankings. in this step by step tutorial, we will show you how to safely migrate your wordpress site to a new host without any downtime. we’ll also answer the most frequently asked questions about moving a wordpress site to new hosting provider, so you can avoid making some common mistakes. important: before we start, we want you to know that a lot of wordpress hosting companies offer a free migration service. it might not be listed on their website, so all you have to do is ask. usually it’s free, but some may charge a small fee. having that said, let’s take a look at the steps we’ll cover to move wordpress to a new hosting server (without any downtime). choose a new wordpress host setup the duplicator plugin for easy migration import your wordpress site to the new host change the hosts file to prevent downtime create a mysql database on your new host run duplicator website migration script updating your domain name server faqs about moving wordpress to new host ready? let’s get started. step 1: choose your new wordpress host if you are stuck with a slow web host even after optimizing wordpress speed and performance, then it’s time to move your wordpress site to a new host that can handle your growing traffic. when looking for a new wordpress hosting provider, it’s important to choose carefully, so you don’t have to move again any time soon. here’s who we recommend: for reliable shared hosting, we recommend going with bluehost. they’re officially recommended by wordpress.org. using our bluehost coupon, wpbeginner users get 60% off and a free domain name. if you’re looking for cloud hosting or location-specific providers, then we recommend you check out siteground. they have data centers across 3 different continents. if you’re looking for managed wordpress hosting, then we recommend you check out wp engine. they are the best and most well-known provider in the industry. after buying your new hosting, do not install wordpress. we’ll do that in a later step. for now, your new web hosting account should be completely empty with no files or folders in your main directory. step 2: setup duplicator for easy migration the first thing you need to do is install and activate the free duplicator plugin on the website that you want to move. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. duplicator is a free plugin that we highly recommend. you can also use it to move your website to a new domain name without losing seo. however, in this article, we will walk you through how to use it to migrate your wordpress site from one host to another with zero downtime. once you have installed and activated duplicator, go to the duplicator » packages page in your wordpress admin area. next, you need to click the ‘create new’ button in the top right corner. after that, click the next button and follow the steps to create your package. make sure that your scan results check out (everything should say “good”), and then click the build button. the process may take several minutes to complete, so leave the tab open as the plugin does its job. once the process is complete, you’ll see download options for installer and the archive package. you need to click on the ‘one click download’ link to download both files. the archive file is a copy of your complete website, and the installer file will automate the installation process for you. step 3: import your wordpress site to the new host now that you have downloaded both the archive and installer files, the next step is to upload them to your new web host. you can do this by connecting to your new web host using ftp. if you’ve never done this before, check out our beginner’s guide to uploading files via ftp to wordpress. normally, you would enter your website’s domain name as host when connecting your ftp client. however, since your domain name is still pointing to your old host, you’ll need to connect by entering your server’s ip address or server hostname. you can find this information from your new hosting account’s cpanel dashboard. if you are unable to find this information, then you can ask for support at your new web hosting company, and they will help you out. using the ftp client, you need to upload both installer.php file and your archive .zip file to the root directory of your website. this is usually /username/public_html/ folder. again, if you are not sure, then ask your web hosting company. make sure that your root directory is completely empty. some web hosting companies automatically install wordpress when you sign up. if you have wordpress installed in your root directory, then you need to delete wordpress first. once done, you need to upload both the archive zip file and installer.php file to your site’s root directory. step 4: change the hosts file to prevent downtime once you’ve uploaded both files to your new host, you need to access the installer.php file in a browser. normally, this file can be accessed using a url like this: http://www.example.com/installer.php however, this url will take you to your old web host, and you will get a 404 error. this is because your domain name is still pointing to your old web host. normally, other tutorials might tell you to change your domain nameservers and point it to your new hosting company, but that’s wrong. if you do this now, then your visitors will see a broken website as you migrate it. we’ll show you how you can access your new site temporarily on your computer, without affecting your old site. this is done with a hosts file on your computer. the hosts file can be used to map domain names to specific ip addresses. in other words, it lets you trick your computer in thinking that the website is moved even though it’s not. let’s take a look at how to add an entry for your domain name in the hosts file, so that it points to your new hosting company. making these changes will allow you to access the files on your new host using your own domain name, while the rest of the world will still be accessing your site from the old host. this ensures 100% uptime. the first thing you need to do is find the ip address of your new web hosting server. to find this, you need to log into your cpanel dashboard and click on expand stats link in the left-hand sidebar. your server’s address will be listed as shared ip address. on some web hosting companies, you will find this information under ‘account information’ heading. in the next step, windows users need to go to programs » all programs » accessories, right-click on notepad and select run as administrator. a windows uac prompt will appear, and you need to click on yes to launch notepad with administrator privileges. on the notepad screen, go to file » open and then navigate to the c:\windows\system32\drivers\etc folder. from this folder, select hosts file and open it. if you’re using mac, then you need to open the terminal app and enter this command to edit hosts file: sudo nano /private/etc/hosts for both windows and mac users, at the bottom of the hosts file, you need to enter the ip address you copied and then enter your domain name. like this: 192.168.1.22 www.example.com make sure that you replace the ip address with the one you copied from cpanel, and example.com with your own domain name. once you’re done, save your changes. you can now access your files on the new host using your domain name on your computer. important: don’t forget to undo the changes you made to hosts file after you have finished the migration (step 6). step 5: creating mysql database on your new host before we run the installer on the new host, you will need to create a mysql database on your new hosting account. if you have already created a mysql database, then you can jump to the next step. creating a database in cpanel go to your new hosting account’s cpanel dashboard, scroll down to databases section and click on mysql databases icon. you will see a field to create a new database. enter a name for your database, and click “create database” button. after creating the mysql database, you need to scroll down to the mysql users section. next, provide a username and password for your new user and click on the ‘create a user’ button. after that, you need to add this user to your database. this will give the username you just created, all the permissions to work on that database. you can do this by scrolling down to ‘add user to a database’ section. simply select the database user you created from the dropdown menu next to user, then select database, and click on the add button. your database is now ready to be used with wordpress. be sure to make note of the database name, username, and password. you’ll need that information in the next step. step 6: begin the duplicator migration process now we’re ready to run the installer. navigate to the following address in your browser window, replacing example.com with your domain name: http://www.example.com/installer.php the installer will run a few tests and will show you ‘pass’ next to archive and validation tests. you need to check the terms & conditions checkbox and continue by clicking on the next button. now, you will be asked to enter your mysql host, database name, username, and password. your host will likely be localhost. after that, you will enter the details of the database you created in the previous step. you can click on the ‘test database’ button to make sure you entered the correct information. if duplicator is able to connect, then you will see a string starting with pass. otherwise, you will see the database connection error details. click on the next button to continue. duplicator will now import your wordpress database from the archive zip into your new database. next, it will ask you to update site url or path. since you are not changing domain names, you don’t need to change anything here. simply click on the next button to continue. duplicator will run the final steps and will show you the login button. you can now login to your wordpress site on the new host to make sure that everything is working as expected. step 7: update your domain name servers (dns) at this point, you’ve created a complete copy of your wordpress database and files on your new hosting server, but your domain still points to your old web hosting account. to update your domain, you need to switch your dns nameservers. this ensures that your users are taken to the new location of your website when they type your domain into their browsers. if you registered your domain with your hosting provider, then it’s best to transfer the domain to a new host. if you used a domain registrar like domain.com, godaddy, etc, then you need to update your nameservers. you will need the dns nameserver information from your new web host. this is usually a couple of urls that look like this: ns1.hostname.com ns2.hostname.com for the sake of this guide, we will be showing you how to change dns nameservers with godaddy. depending on your domain registrar or web host, the screenshots may look different. however, the basic concept is the same. you need to look for domain management area and then look for nameservers. if you need assistance with updating your nameservers, then you can ask your web hosting company. for godaddy, you need to login to your godaddy account and then click on domains. after that, you need to click on the manage button next to the domain name you want to change. under the ‘additional settings’ section, you will need to click on ‘manage dns’ to continue. next, you need to scroll down to the nameservers section and click on the change button. first, you will need to switch the nameserver type dropdown from ‘default’ to ‘custom’. after that, you can fill in the your new hosting provider’s information under nameservers. don’t forget to click on the save button to store your changes. you have successfully changed the nameservers on your domain. dns changes can take 4 – 48 hours to propagate for all users. since you have the same content on your old host and the new host, your users wouldn’t see any difference. your wordpress migration will be seamless with absolutely no downtime. to be on the safe side, we recommend that you wait to cancel your old hosting account until 7 days after your migration. frequently asked questions here are a few questions many of our users ask while moving wordpress from one host to another. 1. can i signup for the new hosting account without registering a domain name? yes, you can absolutely signup for a hosting account without registering a domain name. domain name and hosting are two different services, and you don’t necessarily need to register a domain name when signing up for new host. for more details see our guide on the difference between domain name and web hosting. some hosting providers will ask you to select a domain name as the first step when purchasing hosting. they will also allow you to enter a domain name if you already got one. 2. do i need to transfer my domain name to the new host? no, you don’t need to transfer your domain name to the new host. however, transferring your domain name to your new hosting will make it easier to renew and manage under the same dashboard as your new hosting account. for more on this topic, see our ultimate guide on domain names and how do they work. 3. how do i fix error establishing database connection error in duplicator? if you are seeing an error connecting to the database or database connection error in duplicator, then the most likely reason for this is that you entered incorrect information for your database connection. make sure that your database name, mysql username, and password are correct. some web hosting companies do not use localhost as the host for their mysql servers. if this is the case, then you will need to ask your web host’s support staff to provide you with the correct information. 4. how do i check if my website is loading from the new host? there are several online tools that allow you to see who is hosting a website. after you have transferred your website to the new host, you can use any of these tools, and they will show you the name of the web hosting company hosting your website. if it hasn’t been long since you migrated your website and made changes to your domain name server (dns), then chances are that your site may still load from your old host. domain name changes can take up to 48 hours to fully propagate. 5. do i need to delete any files or data from old host? when switching hosting companies, we recommend that you keep your old website for at least a week. after that, you can delete files from your old web host. if you are canceling your account, then your web hosting provider will delete all your data according to their policy. 6. how long should i keep my account active on the old host? once you have migrated your website to the new host, and if you don’t have any other websites hosted with your old web host, then you can cancel your old web hosting account. however, in some cases, you may have already paid them for yearly hosting. you should check their refund policy to see if you are eligible for any refund upon cancellation. 7. how do i move a wordpress site with ssl/https? you will need to install ssl certificate on your new hosting provider. after that, you can follow the same steps mentioned above. just make sure that you use https in the urls, like https://example.com 8. bonus: free site migration by your new host if you’re looking to switch your web hosting, but the steps above sound too complicated, then you can choose the following providers, and they will migrate your website for you. siteground, inmotion hosting, and wp engine offer free website migration for wpbeginner users. we hope that this step by step guide helped you move wordpress to your new host with no downtime whatsoever. if you come across any issues with your wordpress migration, then check out our guide on the most common wordpress errors and how to fix them. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.1k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to start your own podcast (step by step) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 184 commentsleave a reply samirah says: mar 25, 2020 at 1:00 am hello, thank you for this. is it possible to use these steps to move my website to my bluehost server which has a website hosted already? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2020 at 8:28 am it would depend on your specific goals but yes you can certainly do that reply joe says: mar 17, 2020 at 9:10 am hi, how do you mean by this? important: don’t forget to undo the changes you made to hosts file after you have finished the migration (step 6). thank you reply wpbeginner support says: mar 17, 2020 at 10:13 am once the migration is complete you would want to edit your hosts file to remove the ip address you added for your domain, otherwise, you would always see your site through there without knowing what your visitors would see. reply christopher says: feb 22, 2020 at 8:34 am very well thought out and complete tutorial. very much appreciated. thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 24, 2020 at 11:32 am you’re welcome, glad you liked out guide reply derek says: feb 10, 2020 at 8:27 pm i want to move my wp website to a new host with a new domain name. do many of the steps change? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 11, 2020 at 10:26 am if it is a new domain name then you shouldn’t need to worry about changing your hosts file would be the only difference reply hazel beaver says: jan 12, 2020 at 4:57 pm i’m am just about to transfer my live business site to bluehost. is there a simpler way to move the site? such as installing a back up of the old site to the new hosting with a temp domain name, then changing the temp name when getting the domain name to point to the new server? i’m a bit nervous to carry out all the steps above! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 13, 2020 at 11:45 am while you could do that if you wanted, it would work out to a very similar process as the process above and depending on the backup tool you could be missing a few things on your site reply malchaz says: jan 8, 2020 at 12:12 am great article worked perfectly reply wpbeginner support says: jan 8, 2020 at 10:09 am glad our guide was able to help reply avery davis says: dec 19, 2019 at 5:24 pm would there be any benefit to buying the pro version of duplicator? reply wpbeginner support says: dec 23, 2019 at 10:33 am if you take a look at the plugin’s page they list the features that their pro version offers reply claude says: nov 4, 2019 at 7:39 pm it seems that after i add the ip and website name on the host file, then i see the website under construction only from my pc. i got scared for a sec. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 5, 2019 at 10:31 am this should allow you to make changes without worrying what visitors to your domain see reply claude says: nov 4, 2019 at 7:02 pm hello, thanks for the article. i am moving an html website to wordpress changing everything; host, design, etc… can i build the new wordpress website and then just set the new dns when the website is ready in order to have it online? or should i also follow step 4? thank you claude reply wpbeginner support says: nov 5, 2019 at 10:30 am if you’re changing the dns then you wouldn’t need to change your hosts file but when you change the dns your site visitors would see the new site as well. reply simon borg says: oct 23, 2019 at 12:34 pm i got to step six and i could not open the installer page in my browser i just got a 404 not found page. i did change the web address to my web address., reply wpbeginner support says: oct 24, 2019 at 10:03 am you would want to check with your hosting provider that you placed the file in the correct location reply hunter says: oct 17, 2019 at 10:16 pm got to the login point at the end of the duplicator. white screen of death. whaaaat!!?!?!?!?! reply wpbeginner support says: oct 18, 2019 at 10:19 am there are multiple possible reasons that could have happened, for the moment you may want to take a look at our guide on how to fix that error here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-fix-the-wordpress-white-screen-of-death/ reply willy says: oct 15, 2019 at 4:41 am hi, i just scan and got notice in file size. it turns out the file size was more than 1gb, do you have advice for it? thank you so much for this great tutorial reply wpbeginner support says: oct 15, 2019 at 10:11 am for a site that large, you would want to reach out to your hosting provider to let them know about it and they can normally assist. reply paul ellen says: oct 11, 2019 at 2:42 am three days in to my first go with wordpress working toward an on line shop scenario to go live in the new year. just used this to move wp between to vm’s in a lab. did exactly what it said it would on the label. will definitely use this when i move to a go live on my hosted domain space. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 11, 2019 at 10:48 am glad our recommendation was helpful reply ezim osai says: sep 30, 2019 at 8:59 pm after running the plugin, only the archive file is being downloaded without the installer. how may i correct this? reply wpbeginner support says: oct 1, 2019 at 9:48 am if you reach out to the plugin’s support they should be able to take a look and help solve the issue. you could also try checking with your hosting provider to ensure they’re not preventing the file from being downloaded for some reason. reply sachin says: sep 4, 2019 at 6:54 am hi, thanks for the tutorial. i followed it and worked well. i am able to access the migrated website from new hosting account. only issue i am facing is, i am not able to access wp-admin page while browsing to /wp-admin can you please provide any guidance on what should i check or look for? thanks in advance reply wpbeginner support says: sep 4, 2019 at 10:34 am the most common reason is your browser cached the old wp-admin location and you would need to clear your caching following our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/how-to-clear-your-cache-in-wordpress/ reply stefano says: aug 5, 2019 at 2:00 pm tried today for migrating a website from an old provider to a new one. bang! everything got well and smoooth i have used the free version, also, but i think i will upgrade because the guys deserve it. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 6, 2019 at 10:18 am glad you were able to successfully transfer your site reply james eric says: jul 22, 2019 at 4:13 pm i don’t use ftp, i just simply browse to public html folder and directly upload the file. it works fine. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 23, 2019 at 10:09 am not all hosting providers offer the file manager that you likely used reply brandon morris says: jun 8, 2019 at 6:50 am i am moving multiple websites to a new host, you say above that the files need to be uploaded to the root, is this still true for multiple websites or can a folder be created for each one? or will this have to be done manually? thanks brandon reply wpbeginner support says: jun 10, 2019 at 12:01 pm if it is multiple sites then it would depend on how your new host handles multiple domains. if they create folders for your different domains then you would put each site’s content in the folder for that site. reply carl says: jun 5, 2019 at 6:21 pm everything worked up until i tried to install on the new site. then all i get is “502 bad gateway” reply wpbeginner support says: jun 6, 2019 at 10:06 am the 502 error has multiple possible reasons to appear, you may want to go through our troubleshooting guide for that error here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-fix-the-502-bad-gateway-error-in-wordpress/ reply roger gill says: may 14, 2019 at 5:25 am re the ‘hosts’ file amendment. i see directions for windows and mac in the tutorial. can you help me find this file in a linux/ubuntu set up please. reply wpbeginner support says: may 14, 2019 at 11:33 am in linux, it would be similar to the mac where you would use: sudo nano /etc/hosts reply vishvala amin says: apr 25, 2019 at 5:02 pm wonderful tutorial. i have not yet transferred my website but this tutorial has given me a lot of courage. thanks and will let you know how i get on. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 26, 2019 at 10:46 am thank you, glad our tutorial could help make the process less frightening reply michael says: apr 24, 2019 at 8:47 pm great tutorial, followed all steps and everything worked correctly the first time, can’t ask for anything more than that! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 25, 2019 at 10:25 am awesome, glad our guide could help reply kelli says: apr 18, 2019 at 3:44 pm first, thanks so much for sharing this. i am totally new to site migration. second, help! i’m all the way to step 6- duplicator step 2 of 4 and the validation failed. it was not able to verify the host connection. i have no idea what to do next. i double checked my database info and it’s all correct unless my host is something other than “localhost” and if it is, what would it be? thank you in advance for any guidance one this reply wpbeginner support says: apr 19, 2019 at 10:42 am if you reach out to the support for the duplicator plugin with the entire message they should be able to assist. you may also want to check the plugin’s faq section to ensure there isn’t a host-specific setting that needs to be set up. reply serverental says: apr 8, 2019 at 7:17 am great post. thanks for sharing reply wpbeginner support says: apr 8, 2019 at 10:43 am you’re welcome reply nina says: mar 30, 2019 at 12:44 am this is a great tutorial! i have followed each step perfectly, until i get to the step to access the installer.php. i can see in my hosts file that i have the entry correct, but when navigating in the browser, it sends me to the existing site with a 404 error. what could be wrong? do i need to reboot my computer? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 1, 2019 at 11:40 am you may need to restart your browser for the hosts file change to be seen reply erik s says: mar 29, 2019 at 12:22 pm thank you so much, this guide worked perfectly! i actually already had moved to the new host and was stuck when i came across your guide and did the reverse of step 4 to install duplicator (edited the host file to look at the old host address) and continued with the rest of the guide, which worked seamlessly. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 1, 2019 at 11:20 am glad our article could help reply arlene says: mar 12, 2019 at 7:10 pm hi and thank you yet again for such good information (which i’ll need some time to absorb). but for the immediate future for reasons too numerous to detail, i have done nothing with my site to date, really, other than play around with settings. and i want to try a different host if i decide to go forward. so….do i need to do much beyond cancelling my current hosting contract? though i’ll renew the domain name because hope floats etc. thank you for any assist, and for your site generally. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 13, 2019 at 10:25 am if you have no content, other than keeping your domain you want active, you can close your hosting account until you find a host you want your site on. you shouldn’t need to do more normally. reply george says: mar 1, 2019 at 7:46 pm i have done everything right but when i try to go to mywebsite.com/installer.php i get a 404 not found from the server. i have uploaded the files on public_html reply wpbeginner support says: mar 4, 2019 at 11:38 am you may want to ensure you are looking at the correct hosting provider when trying to locate that file and that the file’s filetype was not changed for some reason. reply marek kurek says: feb 25, 2019 at 3:27 pm hi, i’m just about to move my site from siteground to bluehost. i need to delete wordpress at bluehost. do i just delete files at public_html folder or is there a different way ? thanks ! reply wpbeginner support says: feb 26, 2019 at 1:19 pm we would recommend creating a backup in case there are any hiccups with the transferred site but as long as your site is set up on your new host you would be able to remove the files in that folder to remove the site reply hisham says: feb 24, 2019 at 7:12 am that is very helpful. thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 25, 2019 at 4:09 pm you’re welcome reply life says: feb 11, 2019 at 10:10 pm hello and thank you for this great tutorial i am beginner in wordpress and have a question : how i can detect wordpress site theme name ? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 12, 2019 at 11:52 am you would want to take a look at the methods in our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-themes/how-to-find-which-wordpress-theme-a-site-is-using/ reply philip says: feb 10, 2019 at 12:35 am nice tutorial…keep it up bro reply wpbeginner support says: feb 11, 2019 at 3:17 pm thank you reply russell roberts says: jan 11, 2019 at 10:26 am excellent, helpful article. please note that some of the plugins cited in the article may not work with wordpress version 5.0 and up. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 11, 2019 at 1:45 pm thank you for stating this, some may have not been tested with 5.0 and up but we will certainly keep an eye out for if one of the recommended plugins no longer works reply zach miller says: jan 11, 2019 at 10:03 am i really appreciate the level of detail in this tutorial. good stuff! but i do think it should have been mentioned that if your site is a store or has any user interaction that gets entered into the database, then a “down for maintenance” page may be the ticket. other wise you migrate but may be missing a user order or sign up etc from your admin on the new host. any advice on how to smoothly handle that kind of migration? as in how would you migrate without having to block user interaction during the migration process? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 11, 2019 at 1:52 pm if you want to prevent that issue from happening and not use a maintenance page as you suggested then you would want to find when your store has the least amount of traffic and change the nameservers then. reply ken says: jan 11, 2019 at 8:04 am what if my nameserver points to cloudflare? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 11, 2019 at 1:40 pm then you would need to update your dns settings on cloudflare reply stephen duffield says: jan 11, 2019 at 8:01 am this process only works if your current host is not a wordpress.com site ie a free hosting (note i had purchase the business upgrade, but the system wasn’t coping). duplicator & duplicator pro wont work for wp.com sites. nothing works unless you use one of two host sites that they recommend. duplicator after lots of help, ended up giving me a refund. i tried many a plugins all could not migrate a wp.com site. i now find ,myself having to start all over. this is not a good situation to be in. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 11, 2019 at 1:41 pm you are correct that this plugin won’t work for wordpress.com sites, our tutorials are for wordpress.org sites but for transferring from wordpress.com you would want to take a look at our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-properly-move-your-blog-from-wordpress-com-to-wordpress-org/ reply dan says: dec 15, 2018 at 4:46 am you saved my life, instructions were so easy to follow. ran smoothly. thanks a lot. reply mel says: nov 15, 2018 at 8:19 pm i moved my website from hostgator (using a wordpress website) to wix. the domain remained with godaddy. i thought i would still be able to get into wp admin, but the page doesn’t appear. is there any way to get access to the site via wordpress? i need to get some content off the old site. mel reply wpbeginner support says: nov 22, 2018 at 11:27 am hi mel, you can contact your hosting provider and they can assign a temporary subdomain to access your old wordpress site. reply eric young says: oct 18, 2018 at 1:23 pm thanks for creating this detailed tutorial saving me hours of time. however, i notice that if you move a site with ssl certificate (https), you need to make sure you install a ssl certificate after the move, otherwise, it simply won’t work. also, for some shared hosting customers, they may not have cpanel available to them and they need to rely on some backup plugins such as backupbuddy or wpdraftplus to create a complete backup for them. for some reasons, i need to deactivate my security plugins to let backupbuddy performs a complete backup, otherwise, it’ll fail. reply ussay says: oct 8, 2018 at 6:17 pm wow! so easy to use. thank you very much my migration was successful reply melyssa says: sep 24, 2018 at 11:31 am hi, i just went through the entire process. when i go to enter my website with the installer.php it’s still giving me a 404 error. any thoughts on how to troubleshoot this? reply john says: aug 14, 2018 at 9:42 am it tells me you don’t have permission to access /dup-installer/lib/dup_archive/daws/daws.php on this server. additionally, a 403 forbidden error was encountered while trying to use an errordocument to handle the request. what can i do please? reply prescott chartier says: aug 12, 2018 at 2:24 pm i followed the guide step by stem and all i got was a new wordpress site, none of my pages or data migrated. any ideas? reply ei salita says: jul 31, 2018 at 8:05 pm what if there is a “notice” while trying to make the package? what to do? reply prakhar says: jul 16, 2018 at 4:24 am hi, i have successfully transfered my domain name and wordpress from godaddy to aws. now the problem is i have access to the frontend and as an admin i can login, but as i want to go to backend dashboard it says “install wordpress” why it is like so? and when i click on any menu link or any other link on site it shows 404 error why? any help would be much appreciated. thanks in advance reply wpbeginner support says: jul 16, 2018 at 6:53 am hi prakhar, we are not sure what may be causing this issue. you can try to start over. you may also want to take a look at our guide on how to install wordpress on aws. reply angela welch says: jul 10, 2018 at 1:53 pm this made my site migration and launch so extremely easy. i couldn’t believe there was no downtime and how seamless it really was. thanks for the great tutorial. you just saved me from having a dreadful godaddy panic support call. reply joe hoey says: jul 9, 2018 at 4:13 am great tutorial, works just fine. however on a site with ssl cannot get it to work. firefox or any other browser won’t contact to the new host. i get the following errors. “ your connection is not secure the owner of domain.com did not configure his or her website correctly. to protect your data against theft, firefox has not connected to this website. this website uses http strict transport security (hsts) to indicate that firefox can only make a secure connection. this makes it impossible to add an exception for this certificate. “ does anyone have suggestions on how to tackle this issue. thanks reply eric young says: oct 18, 2018 at 1:22 pm if you move a site with ssl certificate, you’ll need to install a new ssl certificate again in order to make it works. reply aman kumar singh says: jul 2, 2018 at 7:26 am can i restore my site backup data to new host and can it affect my website seo? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 5, 2018 at 2:09 am yes you can. no it will not affect seo if you are using the same domain name. reply jim says: jun 7, 2018 at 11:59 am this was a fantastic help! worked perfectly! thanks! reply stoyan penev says: may 17, 2018 at 3:09 am thanks for the detailed guide! what about sites with ssl – currently my website has a let’s encrypt certificate and the new host provides autossl – can downtime/error be avoid since the latter needs the website to resolve from the new host in order to set up the certificate? and this means there will be a period when the website will load from the new host but the ssl will be missing thus resulting in an error (i think). what is you advice in such a situation? regards reply eric young says: oct 18, 2018 at 1:23 pm you’ll need to install a new ssl certificate after the move. reply « 1 2 3 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) churnly coupon get 30% off on churnly wordpress automated churn-busting plugin. gator website builder coupon get 55% off on gator drag & drop website builder by hostgator. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.