home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 create a book tips for writers by mary jaksch nerves. you need steady nerves when you publish a book. my book, youthful aging secrets: live better for longer is now published on amazon, but my nerves are still jangling. there are a lot of moving parts to get right, once you’ve completed your final draft. during my journey from idea to published book, i realized what i most enjoy writing is narrative nonfiction. this means joining good research with compelling, character-driven storytelling. let me give you a quick example from my book, youthful aging secrets. it’s the story of cliff young. the 61-year-old farmer showed up in overalls and work boots. instead of lycra, he was wearing long pants with holes cut for ventilation. a hush fell when cliff went to the registration desk and picked up a race number. “you gonna race?” one of the competitors called out. “yep,” cliff said. “in your boots?” the guy continued. people in the crowd chuckled. then, a reporter asked him if he thought he could win. “yep. i’ll give it a go,” cliff said. he was willing to try anything! cliff young had lined up for one of the world’s most grueling endurance races, the sydney to melbourne ultra-marathon which stretches over 875 kilometers. when the starter gun sounded, the field of fit, young guys breezed past him. the crowd laughed out loud when they saw that cliff couldn’t run properly. he seemed to shuffle along at a snail’s pace. in this race, competitors would usually complete the course over five days, running about eighteen hours a day and sleeping for the remaining six. but nobody told cliff about this. when his competitors woke up after the first night, they asked how the “old looney” was doing. “oh, he’s doing good,” one of the organizers said. “he ran all night and is two hours ahead of you guys.” as you can imagine, this wiped the smile off their faces. cliff kept on running with minimal stops, lengthening the lead each day. during the first few days, he fell and injured his shoulder. but cliff soldiered on. cliff’s performance-enhancing diet consisted of weet-bix, cold tinned spaghetti, boiled potatoes, egg flips, and pumpkin. halfway through the race, the weather turned bad and it started to bucket down. someone tried to hand cliff a water-proof jacket, but his shoulder was causing him so much pain that he couldn’t lift his arm to put it on. finally, coleman, the race director, caught up with cliff and suggested he should have a pain-killing injection in his shoulder. ‘‘he told me where i could stick my needle in no uncertain terms,’’ coleman recalled. ‘‘then he just plodded on.’’ how did this race end? well, to find out, you might have to download a copy of youthful aging secrets... do you want to reset your biological clock? grab a copy of the kindle version of my new book, youthful aging secrets (free until july 19th.) you can read the e-book on any device with the free kindle app! click here to get the book the long pathway from concept to published book it’s taken me a little over five months from having the initial idea to seeing my book, youthful aging secrets on amazon. and i’ve written about every step here on wtd to make things easy for you. first there was the agile development of the book idea. next, i had to battle the dreaded mid-way slump and find a way to keep myself motivated. i had to overcome self-doubt and confusion. and, once the first draft was ready, i had to master editing. next, i had to come up with a bestselling book title and write an ‘imperfect’ author bio. when it came to deciding on the book cover design, i got so confused, i asked some wtd readers for help. and this wonderful group of readers—whom i call the ya posse—also gave me excellent feedback as beta-readers. when faced with the last phase of publishing and marketing, i knew i couldn’t find my way through on my own. i bought chandler bolts excellent guide, book launch. in chapter 24, chandler offers a kindle book launch blueprint which i followed religiously. chandler bolt suggested publishing my book as an ebook for kindle, and as a paperback. this is easy to do with amazon kdp. the feedback i got from the ya posse gave me the idea of creating a companion workbook as well. what matters now the most important thing now is to get as many downloads of the kindle version as possible so that the book climbs up the amazon ranks. for the first four days, the kindle edition is free. click here to grab youthful aging secrets. another crucial factor is getting 5-star reviews on amazon. i’m praying that readers think my book deserves a top review and take the trouble to write one. what about you? if you are thinking of writing a book, please don’t delay. start now! it’s a wonderful journey, and the satisfaction when you see your book in print is immense. in fact, i'm just about to start writing the second book in the youthful aging secrets series! please download youthful aging secrets. you'll be inspired, and will also help this book on its way. i'll happily do the same for you, when your book is ready! tweet pin share related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson about the author mary jaksch mary jaksch is best known for her exceptional training for writers at writetodone.com and for her cutting-edge book, youthful aging secrets. in her “spare” time, mary is also the brains behind goodlifezen.com, a zen master, a mother, and a 5th degree black belt. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >