wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials » how to start an online store in 2020 (step by step) how to start an online store in 2020 (step by step) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 1.6k shares share tweet share pin do you want to start your own online store? we know that building an online store can be a terrifying thought especially when you are not a techy. well, you’re not alone. after helping hundreds of users start their online store, we have decided to create the most comprehensive guide on how to build your online store with wordpress (step by step) what do you need to start an online store? there had never been a better time to start an online business than today. anyone with a computer can get started within a matter of minutes and without acquiring any special skills. the three things you need to start an online store are: a domain name idea (this will be the name of your online store i.e wpbeginner.com) a web hosting account (this is where your website lives on the internet) your undivided attention for 30 minutes. yep, it is really that simple. you can setup your own online store with wordpress in less than 30 minutes and we’ll walk you through each step of the process. in this tutorial, we will cover: how to register a domain name for free how to choose the best woocommerce hosting how to get a ssl certificate for free (required for accepting payments) how to install wordpress how to create a woocommerce store how to add products in your online store how to select and customize your theme how to extend your online store with plugins learning to learn wordpress & grow your business ready? let’s get started. video tutorial subscribe to wpbeginner if you don’t like the video or need more instructions, then continue reading. step 1: setting up your online store platform the biggest mistake most users make is not choosing the right platform for their online store. thankfully you’re here, so you won’t be making that mistake. there are two popular ecommerce platforms that we recommend: shopify or wordpress + woocommerce. shopify is a fully hosted ecommerce solution that starts at $29 / month. it’s a hassle-free solution where you just login and start selling. the downside to shopify is that it gets quite expensive, and your payment options are limited unless you pay additional fees. this is why most users choose wordpress + woocommerce because of the flexibility it offers. it does require some setup, but it’s worth doing it for the long run. woocommerce is the world’s largest ecommerce platform (see: shopify vs woocommerce comparison). in this tutorial, we will walk you through how to setup an online store in wordpress using woocommerce. to setup your store, you need to have a domain name, web hosting, and a ssl certificate. a domain name is your website’s address on the internet. it is what users will type in their browsers to reach your website (for example: google.com or wpbeginner.com). web hosting is where your website lives on the internet. it’s your website’s house on the internet. every website on the internet needs web hosting. ssl certificate adds a special security layer on your website, so you can accept sensitive information such as credit card numbers and other personal information. this is required for you to accept credit card payments on your website. normally a domain name costs around $14.99 / year, web hosting costs around $7.99 / month, and ssl certificate costs around $69.99 / year. that’s a lot of startup cost. thankfully, bluehost, an official wordpress and woocommerce recommended hosting provider, has agreed to offer our users a free domain name, free ssl certificate, and a discount on web hosting. basically, you can get started for $6.95 / month. → click here to claim this exclusive bluehost offer ← bluehost is one of the oldest web hosting companies, started in 1996 (that’s before google). they are also the largest brand name when it comes to wordpress hosting because they host millions of websites including our own. note: at wpbeginner we believe in transparency. if you sign up with bluehost using our referral link, we will earn a small commission at no extra cost to you (in fact, you will save money and get a free domain). we would get this commission for recommending just about any wordpress hosting company, but we only recommend products that we use personally use and believe will add value to our readers. let’s go ahead and purchase your domain + hosting + ssl. open up bluehost in a new window using this link and follow along. first thing you need to do is click on the green get started now button to get started. on the next screen, select the plan that you need (starter and plus are the most popular). after that, you will be asked to enter the domain name for your website. lastly, you will need to add your account information and finalize the package info to complete the process. on this screen, you will see optional extras that you can purchase. it’s entirely up to you whether or not you purchase these, but we generally don’t recommend purchasing these. you can always add them later on, if you decide that you need them. once completed, you will receive an email with details on how to login to your web hosting control panel (cpanel). this is where you manage everything from support, emails, among other things. go ahead and login to your cpanel. you will be greeted with a popup informing you that wordpress with woocommerce is pre-installed on your website. you just need to click on ‘login to your site’ button, and it will take you to your wordpress site’s dashboard. congrats, you have finished setting up hosting and domain part. the next step is to setup your wordpress site and then your online store. step 2. setting up wordpress bluehost has automatically installed wordpress and woocommerce on your website. when you first login to wordpress, you will see a welcome message. you will be asked what kind of website you want to set up. go ahead and click on ‘i don’t need help’ link. don’t worry we will walk you through all the necessary steps. closing the setup wizard will show your wordpress admin dashboard which looks like this: first, you need to visit settings » general page to setup your wordpress site title and description. setting up https to use ssl your wordpress hosting package came with a free ssl certificate. this certificate is pre-installed for your domain name. however, your wordpress site needs to be configured, so it loads as https vs http. on the settings » general page, you need to change your wordpress address and site address to use https instead of http. don’t forget to scroll down to the bottom of the page and click on the save changes button to store your settings. your basic wordpress setup is complete. now it is time to setup your online store. step 3. setting up your woocommerce store before you can start selling, there are a few things like currency, payments, and shipping information that you need to set up. you will be seeing a ‘welcome to woocommerce’ notification on your wordpress admin pages. go ahead and click on the ‘run setup wizard’ button in the notification. this will launch the woocommerce setup wizard where you need to click on the ‘let’s go’ button to get started. woocommerce needs few essential pages for cart, account, shop, and checkout. you can click on the continue button to automatically create these pages. this will bring you to the next step. now you will need to tell woocommerce where your store is located and which currency and unit measures to use. after selecting your location and currency, click on the continue button to move on. next, you need to enter shipping and tax information. woocommerce can be used to sell both digital downloads and physical goods that need shipping. you need to check the box if you will be shipping goods, or you can leave it unchecked if you will only be selling digital goods. next you need to answer the tax question. woocommerce can help you automatically calculate and add taxes to your prices. if you are not sure, then you can leave it unchecked. you can always add tax information later from woocommerce settings. click on the continue button to move on. next, you will be asked to choose a payment method for your online store. by default, woocommerce comes with support for paypal, paypal standard, and stripe payment gateways. there are many other payment methods available for woocommerce which you can install later if you need. the easiest way to accept payment is using paypal standard. simply enter your paypal email address and click on the continue button. a lot of people including us, use both paypal and stripe. by using stripe, you allow your users to enter their credit card information on the checkout page without having to leave your site and going to paypal. you can setup stripe by following the instructions on the woocommerce screen. once you’re done, your woocommerce online store is all setup. you need to click on the ‘return to wordpress dashboard’ link to exit the setup wizard. after finishing the woocommerce setup, you are now ready to add products to your online store. step 4. adding products to your online store let’s start with adding the first product to your online store. you need to visit products » add new page to add a new product. first, provide a title for your product and then some detailed description. on the right hand column, you will see the ‘product categories’ box. click on the ‘+add new product category’ to create a category for this product. this allows you and your customers to sort and browse products easily. scroll down a little and you will notice the product data box. this is where you will provide product related information like pricing, inventory, shipping etc. below product data box, you will see a box to add product short description. this short description will be used when users are viewing multiple products on a page. lastly, on your right hand column you will see boxes to add a main product image and a product gallery. once you are satisfied with all the product information you have added, you can click on the publish button to make it live on your website. repeat the process to add more products as needed. step 5. select and customize wordpress theme themes control how your wordpress sites look to the users when they visit it. for a woocommerce shop, they also control how your products are displayed. there are thousands of paid and free wordpress themes available. your bluehost hosting account, automatically installs the storefront theme for your website. you will need to customize it to meet your needs. head over to appearance » customize page. this will launch theme customizer where you can change different theme settings. if you don’t like the storefront theme, then you can use another theme by visiting appearance » themes page. if you need help selecting a theme, then please refer to our guide on 9 things you should consider when selecting a perfect wordpress theme. step 6. extend your online store with plugins now that you have your online store ready, you probably want to get started with adding other usual elements on your website such as a contact form, about page, and more. to further customize wordpress and add features like contact forms, galleries, sliders, etc, you need to use wordpress plugins. wordpress plugins are apps that allow you to add new features to your website. there are over 46,000 wordpress plugins available. at wpbeginner, we feature the best wordpress plugins to help you add the functionality that you need. we have a step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. here’s a list of 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites and another one with 20+ best free woocommerce plugins. often readers ask us which plugins do you use on your website. you can check out our blueprint to see the list of plugins and tools that we use. learning wordpress to grow your online business wordpress is incredibly powerful and wpbeginner is the largest free wordpress resource site for beginners. at wpbeginner, our main goal is to provide cutting-edge helpful wordpress tutorials that are easy to understand even for non-techy wordpress website owners (see more about us). wpbeginner dictionary – your one stop to learn the commonly used wordpress terms and lingo. wpbeginner videos – new to wordpress? watch these 23 videos to master wordpress. wpbeginner blog – the central place for all our wordpress tutorials. you can also subscribe to wpbeginner’s youtube channel where we regularly share video tutorials to help you learn wordpress. we also have a guide to show users how to make the most out of wpbeginner’s free resources. many of our users type their question in google and just add wpbeginner at the end of it. this shows them related article from wpbeginner. we hope that this tutorial helped you learn how to build an online store. you may also want to see these 19 actionable tips to drive traffic to your new wordpress site. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.6k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 263 commentsleave a reply dawn groves says: mar 25, 2020 at 2:02 pm folks, when i posted this article link in linkedin, the caption for the image was “how to start an online store in 2019” you might want to update that. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 26, 2020 at 11:06 am thank you for letting us know reply leah says: mar 17, 2020 at 7:51 am i would like to set up my art gallery with just a buy it now button from paypal. is this possible or do i have to use woocommerce? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 17, 2020 at 10:14 am for single items you could do that, woocommerce gives you more tools for showing and tracking purchases on your site. reply medha says: mar 10, 2020 at 1:46 pm great tutorial! i’m in the process of setting up an e-commerce business but don’t have my branding / business name yet. in the meantime i want to start a blog to start building my audience. if i start the blog with a particular name and domain name, and then decide to launch the business under another name – will this cause me a big issue in future? thanks, medha reply wpbeginner support says: mar 11, 2020 at 8:53 am long term it should not cause an issue but in the short term, you may see a drop in visitors. reply phillip says: feb 15, 2020 at 9:42 am when i use your affiliate link to purchase hosting from bluehost with wordpress and woocommerce is this a wordpress.org or a wordpress.com site? thanks. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 17, 2020 at 8:58 am you would be creating a wordpress.org site reply steve says: jan 13, 2020 at 6:06 am hi, nice tutorial, but… i am looking to create an online showroom (for antiques, second-hand furniture etc.) but do not want a shopping cart – i don’t want people to be able to order online. i have read that this can be called catalog mode… do you have any views (or experience) of how this can be achieved? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jan 13, 2020 at 11:48 am for creating a catalog, you would want to take a look at our how to create a product catalog article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-create-a-product-catalog-in-wordpress-without-a-shopping-cart/ reply elias says: jan 12, 2020 at 5:56 pm this is a great tutorial. i’m curious about setting up a platform for mobile users and if that’s a whole different animal. i’m looking to launch a merch store but would like to have the option to have mobile support as well reply wpbeginner support says: jan 13, 2020 at 11:46 am as long as your theme does not have issues on mobile browsers this should also work for mobile devices. reply deanna says: jan 9, 2020 at 7:55 pm i love the information you provided. i’m interested in starting an online store to sell products and i would like to sell my own courses. can that be done on one website? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 10, 2020 at 10:12 am you can certainly sell courses on your site, we would normally recommend using an lms plugin for your courses. for some recommended lms plugins you could take a look at our list here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/best-wordpress-lms-plugins-compared/ reply kel says: dec 22, 2019 at 6:18 pm thank you very much for the update. was a bit confused and i thought having an online store would be expensive, a lot of work and demanding, after reading. however, with the screenshots and explanation provided it seems a lot more easier. thank you very much for the information. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 23, 2019 at 11:10 am glad our article was able to simplify the process for you reply jyoti says: oct 16, 2019 at 1:02 am impressive blog. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 16, 2019 at 10:14 am thank you reply alan says: sep 26, 2019 at 2:34 pm i’m new and am eager to get started. i have a domain and fatcow is my hosting service. can woocommerce work with it? i am intending to promote both digital and material content/products. anything else i should do…besides study wpbeginner…:) reply wpbeginner support says: sep 27, 2019 at 9:33 am woocommerce should work on any hosting provider, for now our recommendation is to go through our articles and take a look at the woocommerce documentation on woocommerce’s site reply sharon says: sep 4, 2019 at 3:36 pm where do the actual products come from? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 5, 2019 at 9:38 am either yourself or if you’re creating an affiliate store you could take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-build-an-amazon-affiliate-store-using-wordpress/ reply john james says: aug 29, 2019 at 11:19 am great for beginners ,iam a 77 year old man i love business this was great for me i want to open an on line store at this time i continue to learn . we will talk iam just about ready thank you jj reply wpbeginner support says: aug 30, 2019 at 9:09 am thank you, glad our article could be helpful reply kunthea johnson says: aug 28, 2019 at 9:26 am thank you for the in depth post. i’m getting ready to switch my ecommerce site from weebly to wordpress woocommerce. i currently have my hosting on hostgator. i have a couple of questions. 1. should i use wordpress. com or wordpress. org as recommended by other bloggers? 2. are the instructions in this blog valid for hostgator? thanks in advance reply wpbeginner support says: aug 29, 2019 at 9:44 am if you are signing up on hostgator your site would be a wordpress.org site. our instructions should work on any host other than the installation steps as hosts can have different installation tools for wordpress. reply chris says: aug 27, 2019 at 12:20 pm very impactful, i really learnt a lot. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 28, 2019 at 9:04 am thank you, glad our article could be helpful reply mathukutty p. v. says: aug 27, 2019 at 2:47 am great post giving all reqd information step by step. your posts are free tutorials. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 10:05 am thank you, glad you like our free tutorials reply chris h says: aug 26, 2019 at 8:16 pm thanks for providing this information. i definitely have a better idea of how to set this up on my own. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:37 am you’re welcome, glad our guide could be helpful reply netshifhefhe unarine says: aug 26, 2019 at 6:21 pm i am really impressed by wordpress i thought that to make an online store would be hard but it’s easy after reading this article whereby i learnt that i can setup the website in 30 minutes and how to install woocommerce which is the heart of online store.thanks for the information. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:30 am you’re welcome, glad our article could be helpful reply marty langenberg says: aug 22, 2019 at 10:55 pm thanks for this detailed guide. with your help, i set up my wp site in 2017 through bluehost. i have just added the woocommerce plugin as i try to set up a way of directly selling my ebooks. i was able to upload a pdf file for one of my books but not a .mobi (for kindle) file. the error message said that type of file could not be uploaded for security reasons. am i doing something wrong or do i need a different plugin? thanks for your interest and support. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 23, 2019 at 9:37 am for fixing that error, you would want to take a look at our guide here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-add-additional-file-types-to-be-uploaded-in-wordpress/ reply nema supply says: aug 17, 2019 at 2:02 am thanks for sharing… reply wpbeginner support says: aug 19, 2019 at 10:48 am thanks for reading our article reply cody says: jun 25, 2019 at 1:58 pm am i able to accept credit card numbers without having to process payment online? i would much rather use my square to type in the credit card credentials and charge that way, then ship to my customers. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 26, 2019 at 10:52 am unless i hear otherwise, we don’t have a method we would recommend for setting that up. reply harish kumar says: jun 5, 2019 at 7:39 am great stuff, i willing to start an online store but i am facing some difficulties on that because i don’t have complete knowledge about the business, now i got a great knowledge, keep doing this great work and keep sharing with us. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 5, 2019 at 10:33 am glad our guide could be helpful reply vince comfort says: may 24, 2019 at 7:44 am awesome post. this is really helpful. so simple that even a 7 year old can set this up. a little tip here for those who may not be able to accept payments through paypal and stripe. go to your add new plugin page and search for “payment gateway [your country]. replace [your country] with your country. now, make sure you research about the plugin you choose. always ensure it is compatible with your installed wordpress version. thank you reply wpbeginner support says: may 24, 2019 at 10:17 am thanks for sharing your recommendation reply sac jac says: may 22, 2019 at 3:23 am hello dear, thanks for sharing kind of article, it really nice and big article and as a blogger, i can understand your efforts :). it will also help me for my e-commerce website where having multiple products thanks again! reply wpbeginner support says: may 22, 2019 at 11:31 am you’re welcome, glad you like our content reply christina blue says: may 17, 2019 at 2:46 pm hi, this convinced me to bite the bullet and get a site. i followed your link and paid for an account, got my website name, created my password and logged in but i’m not getting the “you will be greeted with a popup informing you that wordpress with woocommerce is pre-installed on your website.” i waited another hour in case something wasn’t set up yet. i also verified that my receipt states woocommerce included. now i’m completely at a loss… reply wpbeginner support says: may 17, 2019 at 3:38 pm you can reach out to bluehost and check with them, there is a chance that your browser or a browser addon prevented the popup from appearing. reply samuel smart says: may 13, 2019 at 2:00 pm but when i check the hosting price for bluehost as you rightly said. the price d total price outside extra packages was 179.40 dollars reply wpbeginner support says: may 14, 2019 at 10:53 am bluehost does have multiple plan options so if you select a different plan that could change your pricing. at the moment bluehost is also having the payment upfront rather than a monthly fee which may be part of the confusion. reply calvin says: may 9, 2019 at 11:27 am i tried to do a shopify account but when i got to the billing section it required only a credit card. the problem is i’m a student and i don’t have a credit card. i do however have a paypal account and debit cards. does wordpress/woocommerce also require only credit card payments for billing purposes or are there alternative options i can explore? thanks, and also great video! reply wpbeginner support says: may 10, 2019 at 10:45 am woocommerce starts as a free plugin with paid addons, for the cost of wordpress it would depend on the hosting provider you use for what’s available. reply vinz says: may 7, 2019 at 5:04 am hi, on setting up the payment by selecting paypal standard, is it a personal or business paypal account? i asked because my paypal is a personal account. can it be used in my online shop to accept payment by paypal and credit cards? do i have to have a paypal business account.? if yes, then i will have to go tjrough the whole hassle of a business/company registration process, business name, incorporation, company bank account, etc… please advise. reply wpbeginner support says: may 7, 2019 at 10:47 am unless i hear otherwise, paypal business is required for receiving payments reply linda wills says: may 6, 2019 at 12:54 pm came to this post looking for an answer and knowing of wpbeginner’s positive reputation. couldn’t find the answer so … i’m using woocommerce, i keep being asked to connect my store to my wordpress.com account. i have one, but don’t use it as our blogs are on the .org site. do i need to do this? it seems odd to me, but i’m no tech expert! reply wpbeginner support says: may 6, 2019 at 2:47 pm woocommerce is requesting that as that is how they are handling keeping their extensions updated. while not required, it is recommended. reply beca says: apr 22, 2019 at 12:29 pm -is this the same if i use siteground instead of bluehost? -can i manage my website/online shop with a mobile device or only a desktop computer? thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 22, 2019 at 2:40 pm the installation steps for wordpress would be different but you could do the other steps the same. yes you should be able to edit the site from mobile or computer as you would with any wordpress site reply lama says: apr 21, 2019 at 1:15 pm hello, when i reached step 3, i changed the urls as shown but no i cant access wordpress admin page! please, help! the error is: “not found the requested url /404.html was not found on this server. additionally, a 404 not found error was encountered while trying to use an errordocument to handle the request. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 22, 2019 at 2:01 pm you may not have an ssl certificate active at the moment if you tried to change to https and can no longer reach your admin area. you would want to start by reaching out to your hosting provider to have them ensure your ssl certificate is active for your site. reply zuryna says: apr 19, 2019 at 9:52 am can i follow this guide if i want a blog and and online store to be on the same site? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 19, 2019 at 10:44 am you certainly can reply nook says: apr 10, 2019 at 12:27 pm wow! that’s awsome! i’m setting my etsy shop, but it is not ready yet. i just want to maie sure that i understand the cost of having a website vias wordpress+woocommerce = 6.95$/month? or does woocommerce has other fees? i can’t see if they are on their website. because if this is less expensive than etsy, i would switch right away. thank you reply wpbeginner support says: apr 11, 2019 at 10:40 am unless you want to purchase one of their paid addons, woocommerce does not have any extra fees to be used. reply alex says: apr 1, 2019 at 4:00 am nice post! i learned something new today. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 1, 2019 at 1:41 pm glad our content could be helpful reply sarmad alsaadi says: apr 10, 2019 at 5:11 pm this is a wonderful post that taught a lot on woocommerce. reply alex says: mar 21, 2019 at 6:29 am nice post reply wpbeginner support says: mar 21, 2019 at 11:29 am thank you reply cheryl says: mar 19, 2019 at 12:10 am hi wpbeginner, may i ask a question. i have a site using wordpress – barely used in five years because i detest it. domain is hosted on siteground. i would like to do a clean set up of a new site using same domain name. is this possible? where do i start? regards cheryl reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 2:01 pm you would want to take a look at the first two steps in our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-permanently-delete-a-wordpress-site-from-internet/ reply vanessa gomez says: mar 12, 2019 at 5:15 am dear wpbeginner team, thank you so much for such wonderful material, i cannot wait to start my ecommerce website. unfortunately, i did not find/read wpbeginners before buying the domain, web hosting and ssl certificate, otherwise i would have done it thorugh bluehost since it seems pretty userfriendly. i have one question, do you have a tuttorial that i can follow (something just like this) when my website works with print on demand? becuase i do not have to deal myself with shipments or inventory, etc. or which would be the right process to follow? thank you so much in advance!! best regards, vanessa reply wpbeginner support says: mar 12, 2019 at 11:09 am we do not have a tutorial at the moment for that purpose. reply craftnshop says: feb 23, 2019 at 12:35 pm good and well-researched blog. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 25, 2019 at 1:30 pm thank you reply tyrone says: feb 2, 2019 at 7:57 am how is your wpb discount better than the current discount prices? seem like the month to month with the same comparison is cheaper straight from bluehost. right now $4.45 a month gets me more for the money. unlimited sites and unlimited storage which is not included in 6.95. just one site and 100g. — is there somethings i am missing? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 4, 2019 at 2:27 pm bluehost has multiple types of hosting, you may be looking at the standard shared hosting with that pricing. reply christian says: jan 27, 2019 at 4:57 pm hi i would lige to know if there is a standard setup for taxes and transport in all counties , so the customer will be able to calculate the actual price for buying the goods ? best regards christian reply wpbeginner support says: jan 28, 2019 at 2:58 pm there are a few different methods to set this up, if you reach out to woocommerce with how you would like it specifically they should be able to let you know which method would work best for you. reply romanik says: jan 27, 2019 at 2:34 am thanks,i need to read it again to understand reply wpbeginner support says: jan 28, 2019 at 2:36 pm glad our guide could be helpful reply larry says: jan 23, 2019 at 10:25 pm hi great tutorials. do some of the theme templates allow for pages of informational content plus a ecommerce store? any advice on setting up a dropshipping site. thanks for your time reply wpbeginner support says: jan 24, 2019 at 11:09 am yes, most themes are able to accommodate pages as well as a store. for dropshipping you may want to take a look at woocommerce and their dropshipping addon: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/make-money-online/#create-a-dropshipping-store reply monica says: jan 14, 2019 at 3:52 pm hi, your bluehost link doesn’t work. i clicked on it to get your discount pricing but there’s nothing on the landing page. help! thank you for your awesome tutorials! monica reply wpbeginner support says: jan 15, 2019 at 1:55 pm at the moment, there should be a large green button on the left-hand side once your browser finishes loading the bluehost site. if you mean you can’t get to the bluehost site you may want to try a private/incognito browser to see if the issue could be caused by a browser addon reply sonia says: jan 10, 2019 at 3:58 pm i would like to start my blog with my online store… is this possible? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 11, 2019 at 12:00 pm you certainly could, you would normally want to set a posts page under settings>reading to specify what page your blog will be on reply dhairya arora says: dec 17, 2018 at 12:12 pm its so good i like the way you give so nice tutorials reply wpbeginner support says: dec 17, 2018 at 3:28 pm hey dhairya, thanks. we are glad you found these tutorials helpful. reply linda says: dec 3, 2018 at 9:39 am i have looked online and on wordpress, but i can’t find anything that gives me good info on the differences between wordpress premium and business. i just posted a previous question, which may help inform this one. on my site, i want to provide lots of information (health-related) as well as the products. there will be about 20 products. most people will be interested in about 4 or 5 of them. there is a huge price jump between premium and business. thank you again for your help. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 3, 2018 at 10:08 pm hi linda, you are probably comparing wordpress.com packages. please see our guide on the difference between self hosted wordpress.org vs free wordpress.com blog. reply trina says: dec 2, 2018 at 2:09 am how much does it cost per month for the ecommerce store? i am confused about the pricing you listed. reply silver says: nov 28, 2018 at 6:32 am hello, i am from nigeria. i will like to know if i can choose nigeria as my store location. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 29, 2018 at 4:28 pm hi silver, yes you can. reply david price says: oct 31, 2018 at 7:11 pm i want to start a blog and an e commerce store which should l start first. i was thinking the blog first. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 31, 2018 at 10:25 pm hi david, you can do that, or you can start both of them together. reply preety says: oct 26, 2018 at 10:23 am hello, first of all, i would like to thank the entire team for helping us out with such insightful information about each and everything related to wordpress. now having said that, i have few queries and i request you to please guide me through. i am from india and i already have a personal blog and it’s on wordpress platform (hosted by bluehost) now i am willing to start a small business and it comprises of services related to digital marketing and also that of a clothing brand. << i wish to know if i need to get a new website for the same or i can convert my personal blog into the online store. <<does all these features hold good in india and how to connect it to amazon.in <<also, can i add "call to action" button and "payment option" in my personal blog. << how much i will be charged yearly and whats the validity period. please let me know, thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 30, 2018 at 1:40 pm hi preety, your business website and online store can be on your personal domain name if you are using your personal brand as your business identity. however, many businesses choose a suitable business name and then build it as a separate brand. in that case, you will need a new domain name and website. most of the tutorial would work fine for indian users. yes you can add call to action buttons and payment options in your personal blog as well. reply roman says: oct 19, 2018 at 5:53 am is it possible to create an online shop on the free wordpress.com website? i just need it for a short time to know that it works, and then create my own website. reply editorial staff says: oct 23, 2018 at 6:55 am hi roman, no it’s not possible to create an online shop on the free wordpress.com site. reply « 1 2 3 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) bluehost coupon get over 63% off on bluehost packages and a free domain of your choice. dreamhost coupon get up to 63% off on dreamhost and get a free domain too. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.