home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library campaigns and charities christmas travel prevnext how to give back a little during christmas with give as you live leyla preston mon 5th dec 2016 0shares share tweet pin christmas is merely eight weeks away and, even though i always aim to get my christmas shopping done early, i somehow manage to leave it until the last minute, which almost always results in me getting caught up in a mad rush to the shops all frustrated and stressed. so, online shopping has become my saving grace, especially now that i don’t have to drag two small boys with me everywhere. i have even had presents delivered directly to the recipient, as some online stores offer a gift-wrapping service. ok, so it does take the magic out of christmas shopping, but when you have kids who get bored every five seconds then… needs must! i have also been on a bit of a ‘giving’ buzz lately, as i have been working on some projects, which have made me think actively about the conflict in syria and the hardship that the third world countries must endure every day, like starvation and a lack of hygiene and care systems for families. so, i feel almost guilty for not being able to donate something substantial to charities that would make a real difference. but, there is a way to shop online for your christmas presents and donate a percentage of those proceeds to charity at the same time. table of contents by the power of give as you live give as you live campaign – my shopping haul from amazon via give as you live what did i buy? orchard toys dinosaur discover – £7.93 character world single “teenage mutant ninja turtles urban” panel duvet set, multi- colour – £13.90 boys adidas children boys goletto sg football boots in black – 13 child – currently unavailable selfie stick, taotronics bluetooth shutter with tripod for smartphone universal for iphone samsung and other ios and android smartphone – £8.99 sleep mask, plemo eye mask set with gel pack, breathe-easy eye mask shade for bedtime travel snoring, cool / warm therapy, perfect for insomnia, puffy eyes & dark circles, black – £6.79 trefl puzzle disney cars 2 (260 pieces) – £8.99 give as you live during christmas other ways to raise money for your charity subscribe here to be updated with new posts. don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want and need! if you’d like to share your wealth of experience and knowledge with our community, then you can apply to become a motherhood diaries’ contributor here. don’t forget to read our ad policy. by the power of give as you live give as you live is a powerful online search engine, if you will, of well-known national stores that allow you to raise free funds for charity. it works a lot like those cashback sites, in the sense that you start by heading over to www.giveasyoulive.com, you search for the store that you want to make a purchase from, to which you are then automatically redirected to that store’s website, where you can make a purchase as normal. in the background, give as you live would be tracking your purchase and a percentage of the purchase value is donated to the charity of your choice or, if you don’t have a preference, to give as you live’s charity of the month. this donation is made without any further cost to you, as give as you live makes the donation on your behalf. this donation is paid out of the commission they receive from the retailers. there are more than 4,100 retailers to choose from, including asos, john lewis, amazon and boots. each store shows the percentage of the amount that give as you live donate to charity, for example, 1.5% of your amazon purchases can be donated, whereas moonpig.com’s percentage is a whopping 6% (perfect for buying those christmas cards, people!). give as you live has raised a massive £7,707,194.01 to date, for over 8,500 charities, so it is well worth the hassle of one little extra step before you buy online. you even get a nice email showing you how much you donate every time you make a purchase. give as you live campaign – my shopping haul from amazon via give as you live i was given £50 to try out give as you live and shop like i would normally do for my christmas shopping, but include the added benefit of automatic donation to a chosen charity. the website is simple to use. here are the steps below: head over to http://www.giveasyoulive.com and register a profile search for your store or product in the top right hand corner and click on ‘shop now’ – i used amazon to buy my haul products. you can also find offers and discount codes at the bottom of the page, before you click to redirect to the store of your choice. shop to your heart’s content – be generous this year! here is the link to buy via amazon: http://give.as/mdamazon what did i buy? i have published a video on youtube, which has information on how to shop via give as you live and a review of the below products i bought via amazon. here is the video: orchard toys dinosaur discover – £7.93 brilliant 150-piece jigsaw for my eldest who has been complaining about not being able to finish the exact same jigsaw puzzle at school because he doesn’t get enough ‘carpet time’. so, i decided to buy him the same puzzle, so he can get better at it. he finally finished the jigsaw puzzle at school before carpet time was over – challenge completed! character world single “teenage mutant ninja turtles urban” panel duvet set, multi- colour – £13.90 the boys are obsessed with tmnt, so i bought them both a single bedding set to go with their new london bus bunkbed. boys adidas children boys goletto sg football boots in black – 13 child – currently unavailable aron plays football every tuesday after school and needed some great durable boots for the upcoming winter season. these are great and are still in brilliant condition after a few weeks of hard wear. selfie stick, taotronics bluetooth shutter with tripod for smartphone universal for iphone samsung and other ios and android smartphone – £8.99 i used this nifty selfie stick to video my give as you live haul. it’s strong, durable and it has been reduced from £21.99, so you are getting brilliant value for money. in the pack, you have a tripod, two sticks (one with a power button and camera button) and a usb cable to connect directly to the tv. sleep mask, plemo eye mask set with gel pack, breathe-easy eye mask shade for bedtime travel snoring, cool / warm therapy, perfect for insomnia, puffy eyes & dark circles, black – £6.79 reduced from £19.99, this plemo eye mask can be placed in the refrigerator for ten minutes or in hot water for 5 minutes and it helps to sooth puffy eyes or any headaches. i love using the hot mask just before bed as it does settle me to sleep. this is a christmas present for me… trefl puzzle disney cars 2 (260 pieces) – £8.99 this puzzle is for my 4-year-old son who is a huge cars fanatic. it’s a large jigsaw puzzle at 260 pieces, but his brother helps him out and they’ve finished it quite a few times. it’s a great buy for £8.99. make sure to click on this link first before you search for the above products via amazon, so give as you live can track your purchases and make the correct donation give as you live during christmas there is a dedicated christmas page, which is all about making your gifts matter this christmas. shop for the perfect gift on the website and a percentage will be donated to your chosen charity at no extra cost to you or them! don’t forget to check out the top christmas offers too. other ways to raise money for your charity there are other ways you can raise money via give as you live, two of which are: referring a friend – i am currently raising money for action for children every time i shop online. there is a way that you can get your friends to do the same. if you click on this link and sign up to give as you live, then i can make £5 for action for children every time. you would be able to do the same too when you refer a friend donation reminders – until you make it a habit, it is hard to remember to go to www.giveasyoulive.com first before you head on to your store to make a purchase. you can install an extension on your browser to remind you to make that fundamental step, so you are regularly donating to your charities. even if it isn’t christmas and you are doing your regular online shop, head over to www.giveasyoulive.com first and make the most out of your purchases. it doesn’t cost you any extra money, yet your collective donations would be life changing for charities. it’s the spirit of giving, so let’s give back. #merrygivemas! subscribe here to be updated with new posts. don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want and need! if you’d like to share your wealth of experience and knowledge with our community, then you can apply to become a motherhood diaries’ contributor here. don’t forget to read our ad policy. leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:charitychristmasgive as you liveonline shop related posts how to save money on gifts this christma... top 10 best educational christmas toys a... quick and simple fashion tips for busy m... six simple ways to decorate your home fo... ho, ho, ho! jolly christmas pancake idea... christmas spiced apple and walnut chutne... how to help reduce poverty and change pe... superfood christmas tree salad – the big... cytomegalovirus – what you should know fun things to do with the kids over wint... how you can use matched betting to save ... the ultimate parenting gift guide – give... looking after your money after christmas have you visited the winter wonderland y... 10 things we can all do to help change t... top five tips for spreading the cost of ... the evolution of maternity dresses call santa directly via bt’s new inlinku... half term fun at ora’s cookery event personalised gifts for the family this c... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok