 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog how to write blog content the beginner’s guide to creating great blog content written by anya skrba updated: november 20, 2019 blogging platforms usage statistics the content of your new blog will be the bait that attracts your readers. in this guide, we will cover what content you need to write when you start a blog and the best practices you should follow. without great content, even the most well-designed, tightly-structured blogs will ultimately fail. there are two blocks you need to worry about, pre-launch and post-launch contents: pre-launch content static pages: such as “about,” “contact,” etc sidebar content: content that appears on the sidebar of your blog (if you are going to have one) blog category pages: content (around 100 words) for category pages on your blog (plus pick categories to divide your content) seo meta tags: content for the seo title and description tags of each page (not seen on the actual page but you need to have it ready) post-launch content 48% of technorati’s top 100 blogs are managed with wordpress blog posts: regular articles you are going to write cornerstone content: this will be the base of your blog the content you need to launch a blog before you start writing your day-to-day blog posts, you will want to make sure static pages and other parts of your blog, such as sidebar and footer, are filled with the suitable information. let’s explore each of these content areas. static pages content first, you will need to create static content pages for the following types of information. about page the most traditional page on any blog is the about page. this page tells new visitors to your blog what it is about, who you are and why you have a blog about the particular topic. depending on your niche and your style, the information you provide can be “all business” or personal and fun. contact page 94% of people share blog content because they think it might be useful to other people this page allows visitors of your blog to communicate with you at any time. it can be a simple page with your email address plus social network links, or you can use plugins like contact form 7 to have a simple contact form visitors can use to communicate with you without leaving your website. products/services a blog is a low-cost, low-risk way to invite readers into your world and begin a conversation with your company. 68% of consumers are likely to spend time reading content produced by a company they are interested in if you created your blog to promote your business, you’d want to make sure there’s a page that details the goods and services you sell. alternatively, if you already have a website for your business, you can provide a link to it in your menu. disclaimer/policy to give yourself a little liability protection, you ought to consider a disclaimers or policy page. for example, if you are writing a health blog, but you’re not a medical professional, you may want to create a disclaimer to say that you are not a physician or other healthcare provider and recommend that readers see their doctors for their medical information and evaluation. build trust by adding a well-shot photo to your bio and about page. your potential clients like to look into your eyes you may also want to inform visitors to your website that you use analytics tracking, google adsense, affiliate marketing links and other types of content. be sure to visit best blogs in your niche — preferably larger ones — to see what pages they provide links for in their primary navigation menu and footer. chances are, your visitors will be looking for the same types of pages on your blog. sidebar content your ‘contact us’ page is one of the most important pages on your website. for 70% companies, it’s typically one of the most-visited site pages your sidebar is the smaller column to the left or right (depending on the theme you selected) of your blog’s main content. you will want to add the following content in sidebar widgets for your visitors. subscribe encourage visitors to your blog to subscribe via email or rss. email, of course, is best, especially if you would like to monetize your blog in the future. mailchimp is a great service to use as it is free for the first 2,000 subscribers. don’t hide links to your contact us page in drop-down menus that can’t be seen without actively clicking around your navigation make sure the email address is hyperlinked, automatically opening the visitor’s email client when clicked about a simple sentence or two about you and your blog for new visitors who may not take the time to read your about page. having your photo in this blurb of text helps visitors put a face to the blog, whether you are the owner and editor managing other writers, or the primary content author. almost 40% of websites has lackluster statements such as “please contact us” or “we’d love to hear from you” and nearly 38% of companies offer just an email address or a tiny contact form buried at the bottom of their website 61% of people feel better about a company that delivers custom content and are more likely to buy from that company 88% of people read review to determine a business’ quality you can also display links to your social profiles so people can follow you. you can use icons to represent each network or use official boxes, buttons, and badges from these networks. the latter help you build your social media audience by allowing people to connect with you without leaving your website. 80% of business decision makers prefer to get company information in a series of articles versus an advertisement popular posts a popular posts widget will help direct visitors to your top pieces of content. wordpress popular posts plugin will help you create this easy, displaying posts based on comments and view count. start your post with storytelling (storytelling gives up to 300% more readers) get emotional. posts that trigger the emotions, awe and laughter get shared the most advertisers if you plan to add advertising banners to your blog, then add them from the start, so regular visitors will not be surprised when you do start gaining advertisers. the banners you use until then can link to products for which you are an affiliate marketer or to products you simply like. 68% of buyers said they frequently give credence to peer reviews and user-generated feedback.60 % percent give credence to content authored by a third-party publication or analyst. written articles, especially “how to” posts, as well as case studies, are the kinds of content that lend blogs the most credibility be sure to visit other blogs in your niche to see what they show on the sidebar. blog categories content first things first, you will have to choose categories for your blog. infographics are liked and shared on social media 3 times more than any other type of content over 50% of marketers that curate content say it has increased their brand visibility, thought leadership, seo, web traffic and buyer engagement then the next step is to create short text for each category page that you are going to have on your blog. the text could be anywhere between 50-150 words. you might think why? it will help these pages to rank better in search engines. seo meta tags content the meta tag is a code snippet that includes text outlining information about a particular page for the search engines. this content cannot be seen on actual page but only inside the code. but it’s critical to create proper meta tags for each page on your website so search engines can understand what the page is all about. brand engagement rises by 28% when consumers are exposed to both professional content and user-generated product video refrain from adding a laundry list of tags to each post. instead, put some thought into a tagging strategy. think of tags as “topics” or “categories”, and choose 10-20 tags that represent all the main topics you want to cover on your blog. then stick to those when you create new pages or posts on your blog you need to make sure you include the following meta tags: title tag — displays on search engine result page and represents the page title for search engines. optimal length 50-60 characters. meta description — information that summarizes the content of the web page and appears underneath the title. optimal length is about 290 characters. you don’t need to learn code or programming to implement meta tags on your blog. if you decided to go with wordpress cms, you could easily install one of the seo plugins, such as yoast seo and use it to add necessary information to each page. creating the content plan to build and maintain a successful blog you need to have a well-established content plan. it should include all the details related to future blog posts, publishing schedules, audience development and much more. without this concrete plan, it is impossible to maintain the popularity and consistent quality of your work. below we’ll show you exact steps you can take to create a plan for your blog content. use this example as a template and adjust it according to your needs and capabilities. step 1. create the list of topics step 2. pick and prepare cornerstone content step 3. pick and write 5-10 blog posts step 4. create editorial calendar and start posting step 5. repeat step 2 through 4 step 1. create the list of topics by this point, you already know what your blog is going to be about, and you picked a niche. quality content, regular publishing, good design, and an established social media presence are ranked as the four highest factors determining the credibility of a blog creating list of topics might sound like a complicated process, but in reality, it’s not. and we will show you how you can do it with a real-life example. let’s say you are going to start a yoga blog. the easiest way to build that list is to come up with different points for your niche and mix them up. you can use this doc as an example. here is what we are talking about: over 200 million people now use ad blockers, including about 16% of the us web users. users become more and more savvy about skirting unwanted advertisements with tools like ad blocker. this can complicate things for content marketers using paid avenues to increase the reach of their content marketing efforts by using this approach and adopting different combinations, you can easily create hundreds of topics. 69% of companies report their video marketing budget is increasing next step, you can start listing items that would be longer, in-depth pieces of content. also called cornerstone content (we will talk about it in the next step). these could be some guides or tutorials. that’s why we keep mentioning that you should pick a niche within your passion. thus it will be easier to generate ideas. in our case, here is the list we got for our yoga blog. by 2020 almost every company will have an executive in their organization who is directly responsible for an overall content marketing strategy, e.g. chief content officer, vp or director of content now let’s fill out all the columns in the master spreadsheet. here is what each column indicates: 80% of b2b marketers have a content marketing strategy. among them 32% documented, 48% not documented depth 1. shorter blog posts < 1,000 words 2. medium articles 1,000-2,000 words 3. in-depth guides 2,000+ words the average reader only spends 37 seconds reading an article or a blog post keywords main keywords you want to target with your content. recommended reading: how to do keyword research keywords (kw) volume an average number of searches per month through search engines. we used semrush tool since google gives you only estimated traffic volume intervals. blog content is getting longer and more visual. the average blog post is about 1,050 words long category choose under which category you will post your content. here you have it, you prepared the list of topics and prioritized it by the importance and competitiveness. now it’s time to move to the next step. step 2. pick and prepare cornerstone content how long is a typical blog post? long-form blog posts generate 9x more leads than short-form blog posts your main guides (3) will be your cornerstone content. it’s the content that will be used as a foundation for your website, and smaller blog posts will be written around that core. if you are not sure how to come up with topics for the cornerstone content, here is what you can do: 29% of leading marketers systematically reuse and repurpose content. use google keywords planner tool to get the ideas. just log in to your google account or create a new one if you don’t have it. under the section “find new keywords and get search volume data.” open “search for new keywords using a phrase, website or category” tab, enter the “yoga” keyword into the box and press “get ideas” button. you will get the list of keywords with their search volume. you can also use tools like semrush and check what keywords competitors website rank for to get the idea for topics. it’s a paid tool, but you can get two weeks free trial. sign in to the tool, insert url of the competitor website that you like and hit explore button. next, select “top pages” section on the left-hand side and check “top keywords” column to get keywords ideas for your topics. this exercise should help you find keywords that are popular, and you can come up with the items for your flagship content. 66% of bloggers publish less often than daily, but more often than monthly now it’s time to create the content. you’ll read a lot about optimizing your content for search engines, and while that it is important, if you don’t optimize your content for humans, then you’ll never gain the exposure that it takes to get links and rank well in search engines. if you write content that people love to read, then you will get traffic, social shares and links as your readership grows. step 3. pick and write 5-10 blog posts now you can select blog posts that you are going to write and post on your blog. as we mentioned earlier, you will write your posts in support of your cornerstone content. in our case, if we create “a guide to different types of yoga” as a core piece. our series of blog posts will be the “what is [type] yoga?” series. on average, compounding blog posts make up 10% of all blog posts and generate 38% of overall traffic writing blog posts the blog post is an entry (article) that you write on a blog. it can include content in the form of text, photos, infographics, or videos. make sure you always have an engaging introduction, quality content, and a solid conclusion. best writing practices to become a successful blogger in any niche, you will want to follow these best practices. companies that published 16 or more blog posts per month got 4.5x the leads than companies that published 4 or less monthly posts set your blogging goals you’ll never know if you are getting the most out of blogging if you haven’t set goals for your blog. is your goal to make money? get a new job? find people to connect with about a particular topic? define your blogging goals and periodically ask yourself if your blog is helping you meet them. if not, ask yourself how you can improve your blog to meet the goals. commit to becoming an expert no matter what your blogging goals are, if you strive to be an expert in your niche, the fulfillment of your goals is sure to follow. people who are known as experts in their niche tend to receive more recognition and income for their content. they also tend to have larger audiences and the option to turn their readers into customers by offering related products and services. once you write 21—54 blog posts, blog traffic can increase by up to 30% engage with your audience the best way to stay in tune with your readers is to engage with them. some ways to do this include replying to comments, responding to queries from your contact form, joining in conversations with users on social networks, and visiting your readers’ blogs to see what they are interested in and join discussions. as you do this, you will build stronger relationships with your readers and learn more about what they want, something that can help inspire your future content. be consistent and realistic creating a regular schedule of posting on your blog helps your readers know when they can expect to hear from you again, whether it’s daily, weekly, monthly or even quarterly. the key to maintaining consistency is to be realistic. individual bloggers will find it difficult to create high-quality content on a daily basis. start with weekly or bi-weekly posts and work your way up to daily posts, if that is your ultimate goal. just don’t sacrifice quantity for quality. edit your work, or hire an editor for many people, it’s hard to create content—then proofread and edit it. as a matter of fact, editing while you write can hinder your creative flow. proofreading is not optional. a blog post full of misspelled words and typos reflects poorly on you. if you’re not able to do these tasks on your own, consider hiring a virtual assistant to do it for you. it is especially important if you’re not writing in your native language. having a native speaker of the language used in your blog edit your work can boost your credibility. while blog content does not need to be perfect, it does need to be easy to read and consume. write better, right now! grammarly makes you a better writer by finding and correcting up to 10 minutes more mistakes than your word processor get grammarly, it’s free! step 4. create an editorial calendar and start posting to help maintain your consistency, be sure to use some form of an editorial calendar. you can use google calendar, outlook calendar, or even a simple spreadsheet. use it to manage your ideas and plan your content themes for each month so that blogging is something you focus on, not something you do in your spare time. you don’t have to publish every day, pick the posting flow according to your schedule. for example, you can post your cornerstone content one day, post first blog post the next day, and keep posting blog posts once a week. 75% of hubspot’s blog views and 90% of blog leads come from old posts step 5. repeat step 2 through 4 now you can repeat the same process. if you have more blog posts that you can write related to the first piece of cornerstone content, you can keep writing them. or you can create a new in-depth guide and start creating articles around it. this step is a more personal choice, and you will have to decide what approach would work for you. how to write the perfect headlines the headline, or title, of your blog post, has to capture the attention of potential readers. people may see it in their social media news feed or search results. make sure you include the main keyword phrase that people could use when searching for the topic you are covering. three principles of viral headlines the headline you use will play a critical role in getting more visits and social shares. good headlines make people take action because they show one of the following: 8 out of 10 people will read a headline, but only 2 out of 10 tend to proceed to read the rest of the post. social currency practical value threat below are examples that prove the points and meet one of the criteria. ideas for optimizing your headlines to bring in loads of traffic when you write a headline, pay attention to its tone and appearance — choose a strong typeface — size your headlines to stand out social currency the more public use something or, the more influential people use something; the more likely people will imitate it. why 1000’s of bloggers will come to 2019 smx conference ernest hemingway’s top 5 tips for writing well most popular headline sizes range from 20—36 pixels practical value useful things to get attention. highlight the benefit and promise to gain something if the person takes action. use color to grab attention 67% of people say black is the best choice to help them comprehend the content examples of headlines: spend 10 minutes a day, and you’ll have incredible abs in 2 months how we got 1,000+ subscribers from a single blog post in 24 hours length af a headline best headline length is 50 to 70 characters or 6 to 8 words long threat people often take action when they need to protect themselves from some threat. examples of headlines: warning: don’t buy another ounce of dog food until you read this 50 reasons your website deserves to be penalized by google here is the cheat sheet you can use that will help you to come up with headlines ideas. useful resources to help you maintain and grow your blog: how to start a blog how to use wordpress (with video tutorials) how to promote your blog and its content how to make money from your blog best blogging tools and resources choose a domain name guide web hosting services explained conclusion if you want your blog to thrive and grow, then creating quality content is the answer. focus on quality over quantity, even if you have to sacrifice frequency and consistency. your readers will appreciate you for it. 7 comments on “how to write blog content” brendan october 11, 2019 at 8:49 am thank you very much for a great piece of work and advice on quality blogging. reply anya skrba october 29, 2019 at 9:04 am you’re welcome brendan! reply joseph udofia september 21, 2019 at 3:12 pm your site is certainly one of the best sites for newbies to learn about blogging. thanks so much for sharing such a great amount of awesomely useful knowledge. i have learned so much from your guides to build my own blog. reply anya skrba september 23, 2019 at 9:36 am thanks joseph for your kind words. good luck with your blogging! reply wasim charoliya august 5, 2019 at 9:45 am write a captivating intro. once you’re comfortable with the topic you’ve chosen, start with your introduction. make the introduction easy to read, interesting from the start and something that really connects with your target audience. try to identify an experience or capture something that is completely relevant to your audience. reply hannah william april 16, 2019 at 8:07 am i was searching about writing blog content and just found your blog. you have written a great article about content writing. i will apply all these tips while writing my blog post. thanks for sharing reply george january 31, 2019 at 5:45 pm excellence and more insights to know about the content marketing in seo, thanks for the great information. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.