home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » door » how to paint doors (the professional way) how to paint doors (the professional way) april 7, 2011 brittany bailey 112 comments 323.2kshares facebook twitter pinterest so you want to paint like a pro? well, sit back and let me give you some tips and a tutorial for painting a door for starters. then we’ll work our way around the room. our doors are all the six panel type. if you have flat (non-panel) versions, you can skip this post and come back later. for the rest of us, get out your paper and pencils and take some notes (does anyone do this anymore?) first gather these materials: (this post contains affiliate links. i make a small percentage if an item is purchased from an affiliate link.) sandpaper primer small paint roller 2½” paint brush rubber gloves optional: painting pyraminds. instructions: step 1: the easiest way to paint a door is to start by removing it, then removing all the hardware and lay it horizontally on saw horses. this will eliminate potential drips. but, i’ve painted plenty of doors without removing them. so, it’s your choice. step 2: lightly sand the entire door. no need to bust out the power sander, you can use a sanding block or sheet of sand paper. be sure to sand down any bumps or blemishes. the main goal is to give your door a little “tooth” for the new paint or primer to adhere to. step 3: time to decide if you need to use primer. here are reasons you would need to use it: if the door is bare wood or stained wood. if the door is a dark color and you want to paint it much lighter. if the door was painted with oil and you want to use latex paint (how to tell? rub a small spot with ammonia and if the paint comes off it is latex.) if you are painting over latex with latex (or oil over oil) and the previous paint job is in good shape you can skip the primer. (this was the case with my door, so i didn’t prime it.) step 4: paint the panels first. using a small roller to paint doors can greatly speed the process. begin by rolling paint on the panels. work quickly by rolling on the paint, then use a brush to smooth out the paint and fill in any spots missed by the roller. follow the arrow directions above when brushing on the paint. drag your brush in the same direction as the woodgrain on your door. this will highlight the grain and keep your door looking neat and clean. never run your brush strokes perpendicular to the wood grain. this does not look professional. step 5: next roll the inside cross pieces. start by rolling and painting the center vertical piece. again, drag your brush up and down vertically with the wood grain (see arrows in the above diagram.) then paint the horizontally pieces in the middle of the door. keep your brush strokes horizontal as you cross over the tall vertical center. step 6: paint the border. pay attention to the direction of the woodgrain for this last step. the grain on the two sides should flow vertically from top to bottom. there are header and footer panels sandwiched between the left and right sides. these “sandwiched” pieces should be painted by dragging your brush horizontally (see diagram above.) step 7: the last step is to paint the edges of the door. (avoid painting the hinges…that’s not very professional either!) roll paint onto the edges then smooth them with the paintbrush. be on the lookout for drips or puddles of paint.go back and check the face of your door for drips as well. let your door dry (30 minutes – 1 hour), then follow up with a second coat of paint. when you are done let the doors dry for 2+ hours before flipping them to paint the other side. i have found that it helps to put a pieces of cardboard or scrap bare wood under the door so the paint doesn’t stick to the saw horses. but you can also buy painting pyraminds. ready to perfect more of your painting skills? check out the paint week series with 5 lessons to perfect your painting skills: if you liked this post, you’ll love more of my painting tutorials! 323.2kshares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: door, paintbrushes, painting, painting & antiquing techniques, popular, tutorial comments deb says august 25, 2016 at 3:35 am the link to paint doesn’t work. reply stephen ford says august 31, 2016 at 6:58 am although interesting as a tutorial, for my money it misses 50% of the issue. the last 50% is ‘does the door look good?’. well that is covered here very well. the first 50% (in my books) is ‘does the door fit?’ most nice-looking doors don’t fit in my experience. my measure for a well-fitted door is will it close with the lightest push with one finger (a lady’s finger will do… 🙂 )? will it stay firmly closed without rattling in a wind? will it open nicely without needing the wrist strength of a wrestler? and is there an even gap around the door to make it look right? to achieve all this takes a lot of understanding of how things fit together; how to fit hinges; how to prepare the door edges so that beads of paint don’t form – those beads of paint can jam a door; and how to fit the hinges, the catch and handles so they operate smoothly. in my view there is no point in painting a door without hanging the door properly which includes recognising when it is necessary to remove old paint from the door and frame edges. and i think anyone who does this proficiently will agree that the effort and skill required is probably four or five times the effort to paint the door. reply wilford fender says december 19, 2016 at 10:48 am my husband was requiring trec op-h a few days ago and came across a great service with a searchable forms database . if others need to fill out trec op-h as well , here’s a https://goo.gl/5kkdpy reply ejlow says february 28, 2017 at 5:28 pm i really enjoyed this post. my question is – do you wash the door between sanding and priming? maybe that is implied in the article. reply brittany bailey says march 2, 2017 at 6:45 pm i wipe the doors off with a damp rag after sanding. reply vava says january 5, 2018 at 11:18 pm funny, was just painting a door today and found this article post mortem (haha) i used a water-based non-toxic polyurethane gloss / laquer on bare wood veneer and it didn’t really come out smooth. will sand it a little tomorrow and do the second coat, let’s see if it helps! by the way, some time ago you recommended tin snips in one ofyour post comments (about real copper paint) – i bought a really nice pair and can’t believe it! it’s so easy to cut sheet metal, it goes in like knife into butter, so thanks for the encouragement! 🙏 reply brittany bailey says january 7, 2018 at 6:15 pm glad you found my tips and tutorials helpful! reply nigel william says march 30, 2018 at 2:03 pm what kind of brush did you use? mines leave a strick of paint. also, how did you do to cover the tiny sections of the door? reply brittany bailey says march 31, 2018 at 9:49 pm i like purdy brushes. using good paint is also helpful. don’t cheap out on paint. reply jane @ modern housewives says september 19, 2018 at 3:49 am thanks for the detailed tutorial, it’s been very helpful! you know, it never even occurred to me to use a roller for the door, i always did it with a paint brush only, and it took ages to get everything even. it seems like an easy task at first, but only when you have to do it is when you realise how difficult it can be to give it a quality painting. reply brittany bailey says september 19, 2018 at 2:04 pm the roller definitely speeds the process of applying paint. reply diane says october 13, 2018 at 9:03 pm what a helpful and easy to follow tutorial! thank you so much! reply melissa hawkins says october 30, 2018 at 12:38 pm great tips! thank you so much! reply read more comments: « 1 … 3 4 5 leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok