wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to install and setup wordpress seo plugin by yoast how to install and setup wordpress seo plugin by yoast last updated on july 15th, 2019 by editorial staff 1.6k shares share tweet share pin do you want to properly install and setup yoast seo plugin in wordpress? yoast seo is the best wordpress seo plugin on the market and offers the most comprehensive set of tools to optimize your website. however, many beginners are not familiar with seo lingo and find it difficult to decide which plugin options they should turn on. in this guide, we will walk you through complete yoast seo plugin set up in wordpress and give your website an seo boost. features yoast seo is the most comprehensive wordpress seo plugin with many built-in tools and features. here is a quick overview of some of those features. change post’s seo title and meta description on a per post basis. title and meta description support for taxonomies (e.g. category and tags). google search result snippet previews. focus keyword testing. meta robots configuration: easily add noodp, noydir meta tags. easily noindex, or nofollow pages, taxonomies or entire archives. improved canonical support, adding canonical to taxonomy archives, single posts and pages and the front page. rss footer / header configuration. permalink clean ups, while still allowing for google custom search. breadcrumbs support, with configurable breadcrumbs titles. xml sitemaps with: images configurable removal of post types and taxonomies pages or posts that have been noindexed will not show in xml sitemap (but can if you want them too). xml news sitemaps .htaccess and robots.txt editor ability to verify google search console, yahoo site explorer, and bing webmaster tools basic import functionality for platinum seo pack and all in one seo plugins. (you can also use the seo data transporter to transfer functionality from themes like genesis child themes). the premium version of the yoast seo comes with even more features. a redirect manager that allows you to easily set up redirects. ability to use multiple focus keywords internal linking suggestions ability to export focus keywords video tutorials to help you understand each feature of the plugin. premium support provided by the folks at yoast to help you make the most out of your site’s seo. for more features and details you may want to see our comparison of yoast seo vs all in one seo pack. video tutorial subscribe to wpbeginner if you don’t like the video or need more instructions, then continue reading. how to install yoast seo plugin first, thing you need to do is install and activate the yoast seo plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you will notice a new menu item in wordpress admin bar labeled seo with yoast seo logo on it. now that you have installed and activated the plugin, let’s take a look at how to properly setup this powerful plugin. how to setup wordpress seo plugin by yoast you should remember, that the settings that we select are the ones that we recommend. other experts may have their own preferences and discretion, so advanced users can ignore anything that they do not like. if you are a beginner, and you want to use yoast’s wordpress seo plugin as we do, then please follow along with the steps carefully. step 1. data transfer many of you probably have another wordpress plugin like all in one seo pack, or a theme framework like genesis dealing with your seo data. if you want to successfully use this plugin, then you need to make sure that all of your previous data has been transported to this plugin before you deactivate the other one. to accomplish this, we recommend using seo data transporter by studiopress. if you’re setting this up on a new blog, then skip this step. step 2. general settings clicking on the seo icon takes you to the settings page for the plugin. switch to the ‘general’ tab and you will notice a button to open configuration wizard. we want you to ignore this wizard, because we will be taking you step by step through each option. step 3. features yoast seo comes with a lot of features. this page allows you to easily turn those features on and off. by default, all options on this page are turned on. we’ll talk about some of them later in this article. for now, let’s take a quick look at each item and what it does. seo analysis : shows the seo score and analysis for your content. readability analysis : shows the readabity analysis and score for your content. cornerstone content : this feature allows you to mark and filter cornner stone content. these are your most important pillar articles. text link counter : this feature shows the number of internal text links to and from and article. xml sitemaps : creates xml sitemaps for your website. ryte integration : ryte is a third-party service, it will weekly check your site and notify yoast seo if your site is deindexed. admin bar menu : shows yoast seo menu in the wordpress admin toolbar. security: no advanced settings for authors : hides advanced seo settings from authors to improve security. step 4. webmaster tools popular search engines allow site owners to add their sites using webmaster’s tools area. see our complete google search console guide to learn more about these tools. yoast seo makes it easier to verify your website with all top search engines. in order to do that you need to sign up for webmaster tools program for each search engine. after that, you’ll be asked to add a meta tag to verify your ownership of the website. simply add the meta code that you received from the search engines in the respective fields. step 5. search appearance search appearance in yoast seo settings controls how your website appears in search results. this includes several options for your homepage, single articles, archives, and taxonomies. we’ll walk you through each one of them. let’s start with the general settings first, 1. general here you can choose the symbol you want to use a separator between titles. the default option is a dash, you can use it if you are unsure which symbol to choose. on this page, you can also choose the seo title and meta description for your website’s homepage. after that, you will find the knowledge graph and schema options for your website. you can choose whether your website represents an organization or an individual. you can also upload an avatar (profile picture) for the individual or a website logo for a business. 2. content types you can choose an seo title and description for each post or page that you write. yoast seo also allows you to set up an automatic template to use for them. in case you forget to add them manually, these options will allow yoast seo to use default settings to automatically fill in those options. you will be able to set search appearance, date snippet, and whether or not to show seo meta box for each content type. the default options would work for all websites. after that, you can set seo title template and a default meta description. however, we recommend you to only tweak seo title and leave the meta description field blank. this would allow yoast seo to dynamically generate a description from the first few lines of your article. 3. media by default, wordpress creates a new page for each image or media you attach to your posts and pages. this page only displays the attachment media. those attachment pages have no significant text to provide search engines a context. such pages are considered low-quality content by search engines and have a negative seo impact. yoast seo helps you fix that by redirecting users to the attachment file instead of the attachment page. this option is set to ‘yes’ by default and you don’t need to change it. 4. taxonomies on the taxonomies tab, you can configure titles and meta for categories, tags, custom taxonomies, and post format archives. default template variables should work for most sites. as for descriptions, please remember that yoast seo picks up descriptions from your categories and tags. 5. archives archives tab allows you to control search appearance options for miscellaneous archive pages on your website. this includes author, date, search, and 404 pages. the default options will work for most websites. however, if you run a single author blog, then you need to disable author archive pages from search engines. on a single author blog, the author archive pages are exactly like the date archive or your blog pages. this creates duplicate content which affects your seo rankings. 6. breadcrumbs breadcrumbs are great for internal linking because it defines a clear path or trail to the page you are on. these breadcrumbs also appear in search results giving your site extra advantage in the search. make sure that you click on ‘enabled’, this will reveal more breadcrumb settings. the default settings should work for most websites, but if you want to change something then go ahead. once you are done click on the save changes button. if you want more robust breadcrumb features, then take a look at breadcrumb navxt plugin, that’s what we use on wpbeginner. 7. rss rss feeds are often used by content scrapers to copy content from your website. yoast seo allows you to add a backlink to your own site for each post in your rss feed. this way, you will get backlinks from their site, and google will know that you are the original source. there are options to add your author link, post link, blog link, and blog description. so get creative. this can also be used to add advertisement to your rss feed. step 6. search console search console section in the yoast seo plugin, allows you to connect your wordpress site to google search console (formerly webmaster tools). you can also connect wordpress to the search console and allow yoast seo to fetch and display your search console data. simply go to seo » search console page and click on the ‘get google authorization code’ button. this will take you to google search console where you will be asked to give permission. after that, you need to copy and paste the authorization code in the plugin settings. google search console provides a ton of useful information about your search rankings. see all the things that you can do with it in our complete google search console guide. step 7. social as we said earlier, yoast seo is a powerhouse packed with many features to provide comprehensive optimization. one great feature of the plugin is that it integrates your site with facebook, twitter, and google+ social platforms. clicking on the social link under the seo menu will take you to set up these platforms. we will show you how to configure each of them. 1. accounts the first tab under the social settings is for all your social accounts. this allows yoast seo to tell google about your social profiles. you need to simply add the urls and twitter username for the main social profiles of your site. 2. facebook you need to make sure that open graph metadata option is enabled under the facebook tab. it allows yoast seo to add facebook open graph metadata in your website’s <head&gt section. this will help facebook pick up the right thumbnail and page information when a post from your website is shared on facebook. next, you need to provide a facebook app id if you have one below that, you will find the option to provide a thumbnail for your homepage with seo title and description. this image and description will be used when someone shares the homepage of your site on facebook. additionally, you can provide a default thumbnail image url. this image will be used for all articles that do not have a thumbnail or any other image. 3. twitter as for twitter, you can add twitter cards into your site’s head section. you can also choose the card type to use. we recommend using summary with large image. 4. pinterest pinterest uses open graph meta data just like facebook. make sure that you have open graph meta data box checked under facebook settings. after that, you just need to enter the site verification code provided by pinterest. simply visit your pinterest account settings to add and verify your site. you will be provided with a meta tag that you need to enter here. step 8. tools yoast seo comes with some built-in tools that allow you to perform some advanced tasks. most beginners may not need to use these tools. however, we will show you each tool and what it does. 1. import and export if you previously used another wordpress seo plugin or a theme with built-in seo functions, then you can use this tool to import seo data. you can also use it to import and export yoast seo plugin’s settings and use them on a different wordpress site. 2. file editor as your wordpress site grows, you may often come across tutorials asking you to add some code to your website’s .htaccess file or robots.txt file. both of them are configuration files and have a huge impact on your website’s seo. yoast seo allows you to easily edit both files directly from the wordpress admin area. 3. bulk editor the bulk editor tool in yoast seo allows you to quickly add seo title and description for all your blog posts and pages. under the titles tab, you will find a blank field to add your new seo title for that blog post. after that click on save link to store your changes. to add descriptions, you will need to switch to the descriptions tab. once again, you will be able to add a description for each blog post or page and save it. step 9. redirects manager (premium) yoast seo premium adds a powerful redirect manager. this allows you to quickly set up redirects on your wordpress site. using the redirect manager you can quickly fix 404 errors, redirect users from an old article to a new one, and more. note: redirects play an important role in your website’s seo. we recommend not tying it up with your seo plugin. instead, you should use a dedicated redirect manager like redirection to manage your redirects. this allows you to keep redirects working even if you stop using yoast seo. for more information, see our guide on how to set up redirects in wordpress. step 10. optimizing your posts and pages with yoast seo just installing and setting up this plugin is not enough. in order for you to really maximize the benefit of this plugin, you need to customize the settings on per post basis. let’s take a look at how you can maximize the benefits by optimizing each post/page in wordpress. simply edit any post or page and you’ll notice a new yoast seo metabox below the post editor. you can start by adding focus keyphrase or keyword. this is the main keyword, which you think your users will enter in search engines to find this post. after that, yoast seo will check your post content for seo and readability analysis. you can view the analysis to further improve your article. sometimes your post title, and your seo title might not be the same. every time, you should write a custom seo description because the excerpt generator only picks up the first paragraph which might not be the most important one. pro tip: seo and readability analysis report in yoast seo are quite accurate and immensely helpful in improving your content. however, don’t kill yourself over it or you will be spending more time on following the analysis instead of creating better content for your users. to learn more about on-page optimization with the yoast seo plugin, see our article on how to optimize blog posts for seo. step 11. optimizing taxonomies for seo (categories and tags) just like your post and pages, you can also override the seo title and meta descriptions for category, tag, and author archive pages. simply visit posts » categories page and click on the edit link below any category. on the category edit page, scroll down to the bottom and you will see the yoast seo meta box. you can do that for all your categories, tags, and custom taxonomy archives. step 12. optimizing ecommerce products yoast seo comes with full support for online stores and ecommerce websites using woocommerce. this allows you to optimize your product pages just like you would optimize blog posts and pages. you’ll find all ecommerce seo options when adding a new product to your website. you can also edit any old product and optimize it by entering a focus keyword, seo title, seo description and more, for more details, see our complete woocommerce seo guide with step by step instructions. we hope this guide helped you install and setup wordpress seo plugin by yoast. you may also want to see our step by step wordpress seo guide for beginners. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1.6k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to start your own podcast (step by step) revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 236 commentsleave a reply mohd tabish haleem says: jul 23, 2019 at 3:11 pm thank for the article..almost all doubt clear reply wpbeginner support says: jul 24, 2019 at 9:52 am glad our article could be helpful reply elena whitehead says: jun 12, 2019 at 4:34 pm thank you so much for so detailed instructions, so helpful! reply wpbeginner support says: jun 14, 2019 at 10:03 am glad our article could help reply srinath says: jun 1, 2019 at 7:50 am this is really useful. i installed and activate yoast as per your guidelines but xml sitemaps menu is not displaying. what should i do ? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 3, 2019 at 11:51 am yoast has updated and the setting is under general>features for your sitemap reply andie pas de deux says: may 21, 2019 at 7:01 pm any chance of updating this, folks? so much of it no longer applies since the big yoast update last year. reply wpbeginner support says: may 22, 2019 at 11:23 am we will certainly look into updating this article as we are able reply matt robson says: apr 25, 2019 at 6:48 am thank you for sharing this fantastic article. this is very useful for me. keep sharing. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 25, 2019 at 10:01 am glad our article was helpful reply kia roberts says: mar 24, 2019 at 4:16 pm my yoast seo does not have a tab named ‘your info’, nor does it have an option under features for ‘advanced settings’. why not? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 25, 2019 at 3:12 pm yoast has likely updated their interface since our last update of this article. reply rachana says: mar 16, 2019 at 2:57 am i have been reading a lot of your posts now. i’m actually starting out with a new blog and your articles really helped me a lot to understand the basics. thankx fr sharing this useful information. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 11:58 am you’re welcome, glad our guides could help reply richard ramirez says: feb 7, 2019 at 5:30 pm i came across your post doing a google search. took the time, followed the instructions (which was very easy). overall i had a very productive day. i just have to thank you all. this was very helpful. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 8, 2019 at 10:57 am glad our guide could help reply moscotech says: jan 26, 2019 at 3:25 pm while google verification number on the webmaster tools verification number .it keeps give me this “oops! that page can’t be found.” what happened reply wpbeginner support says: jan 28, 2019 at 2:24 pm if your pages are returning that error you may want to take a look at: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-fix-wordpress-posts-returning-404-error/ reply adr says: jan 13, 2019 at 1:05 pm hello, as already mentioned by the two comments posted before mine, your article refers to an outdated version of yoast. i was still able to install the plugin and adjust the basic settings as desired, however it turned out to be quite time consuming as i had to look for explanations elsewhere on the net. any chance you could update this tutorial? thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 14, 2019 at 2:29 pm thank you for letting us know, we are looking into updating this article. reply susanna says: oct 30, 2018 at 8:15 pm my dashboard does not show all the seo tags and information as shown in the above instructions…half seem to be missing….so unable to do most of the seo plug in work. reply stephanie says: sep 30, 2018 at 10:15 pm is there any reason that when i go to my yoast plugin, and click on seo, that i only have 3 tabs – dashboard, features, and webmaster tools? no your links, security, etc. reply sylver says: sep 28, 2018 at 8:24 am what’s the best way to add google analytics? should i add the code using yoast or using the plugin insert headers and footers? since i’m using this for google adsense? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 28, 2018 at 8:48 pm hi sylver, please see our article on how to install google analytics in wordpress. reply bikramjit says: apr 8, 2018 at 11:00 am hi wpbegginer i have missed the data transfer part before setting yoast seo. can i go for data transfer at this moment. wiil it create any problem? please guide i am using genesis framework reply wpbeginner support says: apr 8, 2018 at 2:44 pm hi bikramjit, yes you can import seo data later. reply bikramjit says: apr 9, 2018 at 2:41 am many thanks reply lulu says: mar 12, 2018 at 8:13 pm most of the menu items don’t exist in the plugin i just downloaded 3 hours ago. nothing matches this tutorial. why? reply editorial staff says: mar 13, 2018 at 4:28 am hi lulu, yoast recently updated the plugin. we’ve added this article in our queue to update. reply vickie says: jan 27, 2018 at 1:49 pm canonical url vanished from my website.how does yoast free put it back ? reply ernest darko says: jan 21, 2018 at 11:34 am is it advisable to very all kinds of webmaster tools? reply kumar mritunjay says: nov 15, 2017 at 11:53 am great post..! i’ve been using yoast and was wondering: how important is it to have the exact keyword phrase density in the blog post? for instance, if my focus keyword is ‘weight loss’ and i also use ‘lose weight’ in my blog post, should i change ‘lose weight’ to ‘weight loss’ in order to fall under yoast’s recommended keyword density? reply wpbeginner support says: nov 16, 2017 at 5:37 am hi kumar, the analysis tool in yoast seo are gives you a basic idea. you should feel free to use exact focus keyword along with keyword variations in your articles. reply kumar mritunjay says: nov 16, 2017 at 10:25 am thank you… reply ashley says: oct 31, 2017 at 10:43 am this is an awesome article and was so helpful in setting up yoast. there are a few things that have been added/removed so i would love to see an updated version of this. please let me know if you decide to do one. i love this site and have used it many times while learning the wordpress monster reply tim says: oct 12, 2017 at 5:30 pm the xml sitemap link generates a broken page. help! reply muhammed bakry says: sep 26, 2017 at 7:05 am the user site map tab doesn’t appear for me is it a premium feature? reply kristina bressler says: sep 6, 2017 at 12:25 am do i need to add ssl certificate as well when i install the yoast plugin? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 6, 2017 at 5:07 pm hi kristina, no, you do not need an ssl certificate to use yoast seo. reply juan valdez says: aug 9, 2017 at 3:12 pm hi! i’m having a problem with the yoast plugin. even old versions. every time i activate the plugin, i get the 500 internal error. it seems a problem with the theme, because if i use other theme, the plugin works fine. reply bhavin says: aug 2, 2017 at 10:31 am very good article. very easy understanding for non tech person. i have one question that yoast increase page loading time or not ? because before installing yoast pages are loading in 0.45 sec. but after yoast time increased and it’s 0.95 sec so is it due to yoast ? reply aditya singh says: aug 1, 2017 at 12:13 am this is my favorite plugin. you have done a good job of explaining every part of it. please be noted that this plugin has been updated and there are a few changes to it. i am waiting to read the updated version of this guide. thank you and great work guys. reply vishal sahani says: jun 25, 2017 at 5:31 am i want to buy wordpress seo tool please guide me reply wpbeginner support says: jun 26, 2017 at 3:50 am hi vishal, you can try yoast seo’s premium version. you can also check out other seo tools that you can try. reply vishal sahani says: aug 3, 2017 at 12:05 am मुझे priuaum yosat seo tool क्या खरीदना चाहिये या नहीं reply penelope says: jun 15, 2017 at 1:01 pm hi, useful article, thanks. i am trying to follow step 12, for the google search console, but each time i enter the authentication code it comes back saying “no profiles found, reauthenticate”. i must be missing something but for the life of me i can’t work out what it is. any help would be great. reply tara c says: may 26, 2017 at 7:03 pm great article! love the step by step for unsavvy website people like me! reply jessica says: may 18, 2017 at 1:30 pm i am using yoast seo plug-in for my wordpress site. under social – yoast seo i am able to enter the url for my instagram page. however, every time i click on my instagram logo on my website i get an error saying “sorry, this page isn’t available. the link you followed may be broken, or the page may have been removed. go back to instagram.” somehow the very last character of my instagram url gets deleted. the url shows up correctly in my yoast social page but once i click the social button the last character gets deleted and therefore i get a error message. please help me. thank you reply carolin says: may 5, 2017 at 7:53 am my wordpress yoast seo plugin stopped working and i don’t know why. how do i get it to work again? any assistance would be greatly appreciated. reply madhu says: may 2, 2017 at 2:51 am thank you for this post. it has helped me setup my seo well . reply gaurav says: apr 27, 2017 at 11:50 pm hi, i have my personal blog. in my google search results, the article link is shown and not the breadcrumbed link like in case of wpbeginner. for example if your article is how to install and setup yoast, in google the link would be w, where as in my case it is i want breadcrumb link in all my google results, is it possible through yoast or some other means? reply mohamad says: apr 25, 2017 at 3:05 am thank you for the great article. i followed your tutorial to setup yoast from my woocommerce store. i still have 1 little problem: how can i set a default focus keyword template to all my products at once the way you do for seo titles and meta description? setting them individually is a real hassle. i just want the search keyword to include %%title%% followed by the name of my country. reply orya michael durham says: apr 20, 2017 at 7:19 am hi, i created a hotel site for my company using wordpress. i have also installed the yoast seo but i have no knowledge of what to do so as to get my site search friendly on search engines. please is there any way you can help me with this problem because i have zero knowledge on this. i have tried all the directions i found on the internet but i have no clue what to do or what the issue is. reply aman says: apr 18, 2017 at 12:55 pm sir i have most common problem with seo yoast….seo yoast someday working fine. but today some that seo yoast all setting not show.. only show “save changes” button..i mean no option show to change settings . only show “save change”…plz help me reply wpbeginner support says: apr 19, 2017 at 8:29 am hey aman, try switching off all other plugins except yoast seo. after that connect to your site using an ftp client. next, backup and delete the .htaccess file from the root /public_html/ folder. check if this resolves the issue. if it does, then reactivate plugins one by one, each time refresh yoast seo settings page until you find out the plugin that caused the issue. reply bhaskar dhiman says: apr 16, 2017 at 11:33 pm thank you. i got some work now for the next couple of days. reply godden says: apr 2, 2017 at 3:57 am i followed your steps as outlined above. so far all works well except for one thing. when i share a specific page on facebook, what appears is the the information from my fb open graph meta tags of my homepage instead of the specific page i shared. how can fix this? reply fouad sa says: mar 29, 2017 at 10:07 am hi. i installed seo data transporter like you said, but i can’t see yoast in the given options. also i already have premium seo pack installed, but that also is not in the given options. can you please help me? i’ve been looking for a way for to install yoast for a while, but had no success yet. reply dusan says: mar 23, 2017 at 6:15 pm hi there, is this yoast seo free to use? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 23, 2017 at 11:28 pm hi dusan, yes, it is free to use. reply ramana says: mar 20, 2017 at 2:13 am dear syed balkhi,, i have gone through this post, it was splendid. i have a doubt you are showing meta robots in index. where as shoutmeloud shows it as noindex. since both the blogs are authority blogs for the world, how do we come to a conclusion with these two variations? reply ramana says: mar 20, 2017 at 1:55 am yes, this was in deed a great information. i have few doubts on nofollow,no index etc., those were cleared with your post. reply herb says: mar 16, 2017 at 11:11 am perhaps you should reconsider your objection to the bulk editor in tools. you can edit titles and descriptions of your posts and pages without having to go into the editor for each page. this saves you a lot of time when entering titles and meta descriptions. reply lara says: mar 5, 2017 at 7:32 am hi, thesis 2 won’t work with the plugin – is there another you now recommend? thanks in advance reply josevel says: feb 26, 2017 at 2:36 am you guys are wonderful. thanks a lot for this article. it was very helpful reply abhishek verma says: feb 23, 2017 at 2:58 am hi wpb, really helpful post, google analytics is the best website/monitering tool by google. thanks for this post. reply putu indra says: feb 21, 2017 at 10:46 am wow, i just know how to set this yoast plugin, this is very helpful for the beginners in wordpress i thank you sir reply nauman rehmat says: feb 10, 2017 at 9:03 am hy im confused about date archives! should i mark it to index or noindex! i think this tutorial is old. i have the new version of yoast. reply okolie anthony says: feb 10, 2017 at 1:12 am hi wpbeginner, i’ve just installed the yoast seo plugin but i can find the post and meta tag setting on the yoast plugi. as a matter of fact from step 6 down i can’t find it. reply patrick says: feb 9, 2017 at 5:19 am does it make sense to do the full seo setup on your test hosting when developing a site? do you need to re-do anything? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 9, 2017 at 8:39 pm yes you can do all the basics, like setting title and meta templates and other general settings. make sure your development site is inaccessible to search engines though. reply travis c says: jan 24, 2017 at 10:46 am hello, i recently updated my wordpress site and updated the yoast plugin but the plugin failed. i removed the plugin and tried to reinstall it but it doesn’t work. i keep getting this error: “installation failed: destination folder already exists.” i cannot find any mention of yoast in my plugins folder. can someone please help with a solution? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 24, 2017 at 4:51 pm hi travis, the yoast seo folder is labeled wordpress-seo you can find it at /wp-content/plugins/wordpress-seo reply « 1 2 3 4 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.