wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » tutorials » how we increased our email subscribers by 600% with optinmonster how we increased our email subscribers by 600% with optinmonster last updated on july 21st, 2019 by editorial staff 174 shares share tweet share pin everyone who has a successful blog or an online presence will agree that building an email list is very important. over the years, we’ve tried numerous techniques to get more email subscribers. after trying several wordpress lead-generation plugins, our founder syed balkhi partnered with thomas griffin and decided to create a perfect solution that delivers result. in this article, we will show you how we organically increased our email subscribers by 600% in less than a month by using optinmonster. some of you would think that 600% growth probably meant that we weren’t getting many subscribers before. that’s not true. on a daily basis, we would get around 70 – 80 new subscribers from the sidebar form, contact forms, and other landing pages on the site. by making one single change on the site, we were able to increase our daily email signup rate to around 445 – 470 new subscribers per day. that’s a 600% growth with the same amount of traffic that were getting before. so what changed? well, we started using optinmonster. what is optinmonster? optinmonster is a lead-generation software and the best wordpress popup plugin. it allows you to easily create and integrate highly effective optin forms on your website. it integrates with all major email service providers, and it comes with powerful features such as page-level targeting, a/b split testing, and exit-intent technology. using optinmonster we were able to create a smart lightbox popup with exit-intent. wait, don’t all popup sucks? yes, most popups suck because they’re not done right. what is a smart lightbox popup? an average popup is usually opened on a separate window (normally when you visit a website or when you click on the screen). those are freaking annoying as heck. then there are the other lightbox popups that you probably see a lot of bloggers using. these are boxes that open within the same window usually right when you visit the website. these are not as bad, but they can definitely annoy some users. then there is a smart lightbox popup. smart lightbox popup is a targeted message that opens on a specific page right when the user is about to leave. how is that not annoying? we ran a split test on wpbeginner to see how lightbox popup effects our bounce rate and whether we get any user complaints. the first thing we found was that the bounce rate on a page with an exit-intent lightbox was the exact same as the page with no lightbox. second, we had absolutely zero user complaints. last but not least the amount of new email subscribers we got with exit-intent lightbox were significant. exit-intent magic the key reason behind these phenomenal result is exit-intent. why? because the users who were going to leave your website will leave anyways. using the exit-intent technology, we were able to convert abandoning visitors into subscribers. optinmonster’s exit-intent technology track user’s mouse gesture and velocity as they browse through your website. this allows the plugin to detect the precise moment the user is about to leave, and prompts them with a targeted campaign. unlike other annoying exit popups, it does not prevent the user from leaving. they can close the window like they normally would. but what this does is give you a new real estate, technically an extra pageview, to retain that visitor and potentially get them to subscribe. most visitors leave your website without subscribing even when they like the content. why? because they have a short attention span, and there is no clear call-to-action on most pages. also because of the short attention span, they probably won’t ever return to your site. now if you make it easy for them to subscribe and give them a gentle reminder, then they’re much more likely to subscribe. if you offer them a free bonus, then that’s even better. how to use optinmonster to get maximum benefits you’re probably thinking that it will be a complex setup. well, it really isn’t. it took us less than 10 minutes to get this all setup. first thing you need to do is get optinmonster. it is a commercial wordpress plugin with 3 different levels. the exit-intent technology that we mentioned above is in the pro level plan. it does come with a 14-day money back guarantee, so you can use the product to see if it increases your email subscribers or not. if it doesn’t, then simply ask for a refund. once you get the plugin, install and activate it. the process is similar to any other plugin. the next thing you want to do is connect with your email marketing service such as aweber, mailchimp etc. although that process is fairly intuitive, there are documentations available. below is how our configure screen looks: on the setup screen, we made sure that we require double-optin to adhere with the mailchimp rules. we also made sure that our cookie duration is 30 days, so once the user closes it, they will not see it for another 30 days. last but definitely the most important, we made sure that exit-intent is turned on. yup that powerful technology takes only one checkbox to activate. next, we used the built-in “case study” theme that comes with optinmonster. select the them and click open design customizer button. the design customizer works exactly like the wordpress theme customizer. use it to customize your optin. below is a preview of how our optin looks: lastly, we enabled it to show only on single post pages on the site. results so this 10 minute setup resulted in close 3200 new subscribers this past week. see the stats below: note: optins are not running site-wide. it is only on single posts. we’re now working on creating targeted campaigns for specific pages, categories, and custom post types, so we can build a hyper-targeted email list. final thoughts yes, we hate popups just like everybody else, but this is different. when you create a targeted campaign and give users what they want, then they will happily subscribe. the data above is proof of that. we didn’t get any extra traffic nor did we do any special campaigns. we simply used optinmonster to turn abandoning visitors into subscribers. optinmonster also has other optin types (footer bar and slide-ins) for those who don’t want to use the lightbox popup. more optin types are also in the works and will be released in the coming months. if you want to get more email subscribers and improve your lead generation efforts in wordpress, then we highly recommend that you start using optinmonster. oh and here is a 10% off optinmonster coupon, just type the code wpb10. what techniques have you used to build your email list? let us know by leaving a comment below. 174 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to start your own podcast (step by step) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 114 commentsleave a reply mai says: jul 2, 2017 at 8:31 pm hi. i have optinmonster and i have successfully set up an optin page. however, i could not integrate it with my mailchimp account. i retried and retried but it kept spinning for hours and hours. i’m using optinmonster 2.1.7, is there an error with this version? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: jul 9, 2017 at 11:17 am hey mai, please contact optinmonster support team. they will be able to help you better. reply nigel says: apr 22, 2016 at 8:47 am can it be used with get response? thank you for an interesting post. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 24, 2016 at 3:56 pm yes, it can be used with getresponse. reply gin says: apr 9, 2016 at 3:41 pm okay someone help me out here…i’m starting to get confused with all these opt in/subscription options. so mail chimp is for if you want someone to opt in to your newsletter? jet pack is to add an option so someone can subscribe to your blog that’s on your website? and… optinmonster is for if you want someone to opt in to receiving emails from you? are all 3 really necessary to cover all 3 of those opt in options, or is there some easier way to accomplish all 3 things? also how does one get the newsletter or any other item to the subscriber once they opt in? do you have to upload the form to mail chimp and then tell mail chimp which email addresses to send the information to? sooo confused…help me out please! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 9, 2016 at 5:16 pm mailchimp is an email service provider. if you are building an email list, then you will need an email service provider that specializes in sending mass email. jetpack lets you add a signup form and it can also send your posts to readers. but it is not an email newsletter service, which makes it very limited. optinmonster connects your wordpress site to mailchimp or any other email service provider. it helps you create beautiful signup forms that appear in sidebar, popups, slideins, footer bar, etc. this helps you get more subscribers and signups for your mailing list. hope this helps. reply sarah says: feb 27, 2016 at 12:58 am the idea of saving subscribers data on/with a third party is not something we like to do. much prefer to be able to save the data on our own server thus in ‘control. reply tom brady says: feb 4, 2016 at 10:11 am how much? reply steve ceaton says: oct 14, 2015 at 12:43 pm i wonder if this still works, or whether it’s been so saturated it actually puts people off now? i know it puts me off. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 14, 2015 at 8:05 pm we still use it and works really well for us. optinmonster comes with options that allow you to make it less off putting. for example, you can load it on exit-intent, increase cookie duration so that it is not bothering users on subsequent visits, you can launch it on second-page view, and many more. reply gudtalent says: jul 28, 2015 at 12:57 pm this is really a helpful article but i will love to know how to stop the pop up box is you are already a subscriber to avoid annoying your reader? reply alex khan says: jul 8, 2015 at 5:38 pm can you much such plugin for google blogger ? or can you suggest a good alternative? reply jess gaithers says: jun 8, 2015 at 1:10 am hmm, this makes sense in the short run. but in the long run won’t visitors get really annoyed by repeatedly getting the exit message even though they already signed up? is there any way to set cookies or something so if someone subscribes this lightbox window won’t ever show up again? thanks. reply editorial staff says: jun 8, 2015 at 8:48 am yes you can set a cookie length of 365 days or as long or short as you want. reply jason says: feb 8, 2016 at 3:49 pm you can just have what ever php action that is being used to record the emails set a cookie that never expires. or use javascript to set a cookie that won’t expire on whatever thank you page the form redirects too after submit. reply navuth says: jun 2, 2015 at 6:26 am optinmonster is really interesting me. but how it look like? it pop up like this page, right? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 3, 2015 at 1:58 pm yes, you may also visit optinmonster.com for more information. reply bryan cork says: mar 9, 2015 at 9:24 am definitely worth a try. reply rich says: mar 7, 2015 at 12:02 pm can it create optin like this website ? pop up asks question then leads people to different paths? one of them is the optin. reply nabtron says: feb 17, 2015 at 7:24 pm why did you stop using it now? reply wpbeginner staff says: nov 5, 2014 at 8:11 pm not right now, but may be in the future. reply fred says: nov 3, 2014 at 10:06 pm would you ever consider offering this on the shopify platform as a shopify app? i would love to have this on my store’s site. reply wpbeginner staff says: oct 27, 2014 at 2:40 pm here is how to get support for optinmonster. reply institutomujeres says: oct 26, 2014 at 9:23 pm i was finally decided to buy the plugin and after i installed it and made my first lightbox, when im integration it does not allow me to connect to mailchimp. after i insert the api number it gets stuck and keeps trying load. you have any idea what could be causing this? reply syed balkhi says: oct 8, 2014 at 8:42 am yes, optinmonster does have click to open functionality. we’re calling it monsterlink, and it will be highlighted a bit better in the new redesign. here’s the tutorial on how to do it: http://optinmonster.com/docs/how-to-manually-load-optinmonster-popup-with-click-of-a-button/ reply tony says: oct 7, 2014 at 2:27 am hey, i love the look of some of the optinmonster exits i have seen, i was wondering is there and option to link directly to the pop up (eg from an image on wordpress), i have leadpages and i do not really like the look of the popup. reply wpbeginner staff says: aug 26, 2014 at 9:26 pm om can accommodate additional fields only with custom html form option or canvas. if you use the default integration, it will only work with 2 fields (name / email). you can use canvas and integrate with gravity forms and add as many fields as you like (note you will have to customize the design yourself). reply dance says: aug 24, 2014 at 12:33 pm syed, my aweber form has an additional custom field. can om accommodate that field in the available forms within om. reply wpbeginner staff says: aug 3, 2014 at 9:08 pm if they have html form then yes reply anjanish kumar says: aug 3, 2014 at 1:56 pm is it possible to integrate optinmonster with sendy ? reply jop says: jul 29, 2014 at 6:36 am well it works, i subscribed due to this! brilliant. reply wpbeginner staff says: jul 3, 2014 at 4:34 pm yes, optinmonster now has an after post add-on which allows you to add an optin at the end of the article. reply wpbeginner staff says: jun 12, 2014 at 12:27 am actually the lighbox popup will not appear on mobile devices. reply alexa bloom says: jun 11, 2014 at 4:29 pm so this plugin sounds really good. i’m keen to try it. but i’m wondering if there is a comparable plugin to encourage site visitors to follow a twitter account in a similar fashion? reply tammy hawk-bridges says: jun 11, 2014 at 9:06 am you dont think that the optin box pushes away the mobile user? reply wpbeginner staff says: may 22, 2014 at 3:59 pm no it does not work with jetpack’s subscription service. optinmonster uses cookies to detect returning users. you can choose to hide an optin from logged in users. reply dee @ the kitchen snob says: may 18, 2014 at 7:23 pm 2 questions – does optinmonster work with jetpack subscription service? and once someone subscribes, is there a way to make it so it never pops up for that ip address again? i’d hate if my subscribers got the same popup 30-90 days later (or whatever i set it to) when they’ve already subscribed. thanks for the info. reply katie harp says: may 4, 2014 at 2:57 am that’s incredible. as much as i used to be opposed to lightboxes/any form of popup, i may have to do some testing after reading this. reply wpbeginner staff says: may 2, 2014 at 8:09 pm we tried multiple different ways of comment lead-gen, but none to very much success. – we added a checkbox below the comment submit button that was automatically checked “subscribe to wpbeginner weekly newsletter”. this worked to an extent, but it confused users. we put a cookie setting in place, but people clear cookies, use different browsers, etc. regular users started complaining that they had to uncheck the box every time they leave a comment because they’re already subscribed. essentially it created a bad ux, and we don’t want that. – we changed the checkbox from auto-checked to giving users an option to check it. this had negligible optin rate compared to the amounts of comments we got. the reasons for switching to disqus has been outlined in our article (which far outweighs the lead-gen benefits) https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-add-disqus-comment-system-in-wordpress/ p.s. i’m sure if you were to go 100% blackhat and optin everybody without their permissions, then comments would be huge lead-gen source… but we don’t believe in doing that. -syed reply nate maingard says: may 3, 2014 at 3:11 am thank you for taking the time to write this great response syed. consider me convinced :). warm regards nate reply nabtron says: feb 17, 2015 at 7:27 pm you could have added condition of subscribing if the user is already subscribed or not reply nate maingard says: apr 30, 2014 at 5:20 am interesting that you’re using disqus for commenting, but it doesn’t allow for lead generation? any reason you feel that using disqus outweighs that potential lead source? i know it’s slightly off topic, but this is a post about increased lead generation reply dhiraj says: apr 15, 2014 at 12:48 am totally agree. reply olly says: apr 8, 2014 at 5:25 am hi! plugin looks great, will it work with dotmailer? thanks oliver reply wpbeginner support says: apr 8, 2014 at 11:11 pm if the dotmailer provides an html email form embed code then it would work with dotmailer as well. reply dario says: apr 8, 2014 at 3:58 am is it possible to let the user to download a file after the subsciption? reply abdullah says: apr 7, 2014 at 2:00 am hi i need plugin which show popup up at the end of page saying (thanks you for reading the artical ) is there any pliugin which remove on scroll up with out disturbing the whole page .hlep me getting this. thanks in advance. reply michael says: apr 1, 2014 at 7:59 pm hi, i was wondering how optinmonster compares to popup domination? for instance, if i want to put an email collection form on my 1 site with the exit intent what benefit do i get paying $199 for the pro version of optinmonster versus the $47 i’d pay for the standard version of popup domination? i can’t see how a wysiwyg customizer and some extra fonts is worth $152, so maybe there is something i’m missing? thanks, michael reply wpbeginner support says: apr 3, 2014 at 3:28 pm speed // code quality is what makes us better. we also offer other add-on types such as footer bar, slide-ins, sidebar optins, after post optins, and more to come. optinmonster offers much better support as well. reply john matras says: mar 30, 2014 at 12:10 am when i saw the exit intent technology, i was really blown away. i can’t help thinking that you’d get a lot more buyers–more than enough to make up the reduced revenue per sale–with a lower price. exit intent i’d buy, but i can’t afford that price. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 2, 2014 at 3:06 pm john, it’s our signature feature and we’d like to keep it at the pro level or higher. reply vitaly says: mar 28, 2014 at 5:27 pm have you tested this plugin for speed, server requests? does it affect page load times much? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 28, 2014 at 6:22 pm page load times and site speed are very important for us at wpbeginner, and optinmonster is highly optimized for page speed. reply sarah says: mar 16, 2014 at 10:45 pm does this work on mobile devices since there is no mouse movement to detect? i usually browse the web from my ipad. thanks! reply wpbeginner support says: mar 17, 2014 at 4:27 pm no, currently it does not. reply ankur says: mar 10, 2014 at 3:02 am syed, thanks for your wonderful blog. i just wanted to know, how is your experience with normal popups (the ones that pop-up after ‘n’ seconds of page load) vs exit pop-ups? which you found providing better conversions? reply editorial staff says: mar 11, 2014 at 6:59 am hey ankur, the popups that are triggered after x seconds can work as long as you can nail down the perfect time setting. so it’s not as simple as plug and play. you really have to test out the settings to get the best results. whereas exit-intent is plug and play. a friend of mine recently tried exit-intent vs timed popup. the time popup for him didn’t convert as well when compared to exit-intent. my reasoning there was because he didn’t experiment with the time setting. i think you can get it right if you try hard enough, however exit-intent is just so much easier. -syed reply ankur says: mar 12, 2014 at 9:51 am for me, personally, the in-content targeted opt-in works best. though i keep experimenting with the pop-ups, i don’t like their invasive nature. also, a humble suggestion, you may want to have a ‘subscribe to comments’ feature enabled in your blog. it becomes easy for the commentor to track responses on the comments made. reply mayank says: mar 4, 2014 at 12:33 am $49 look expensive. but what %age of the total number of visitors can we convert as subscribers reply brad says: mar 23, 2014 at 3:30 am $49 for a 600% lift? you can’t beat that. it is the exact opposite of expensive. reply janine says: mar 3, 2014 at 10:33 pm opt-in cookie duration for an email signup pop-up on a website home page… does anyone know the recommended optimal cookie duration for an email signup pop-up? is “30 days” the accepted time frame before an email signup pop-up is displayed again to a repeat visitor? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 4, 2014 at 5:49 pm yes 30 – 90 days is a good time. reply sascha says: feb 23, 2014 at 11:52 am wow great. i first saw your video in the interview with jame tardy. you really walk the talke. this optin form is a great idea. actually i do not even get 1 subscriber from 200 visitors. i get only very few…. so, but i am using wysija for my email newsletter and i do not want to change it, as i am not so keen to changing it…. is it possible to use your plugin with wysija? if not, kindly implement that :p sascha reply wpbeginner support says: feb 23, 2014 at 5:52 pm sascha, thanks for watching the interview. as for optinmonster, yes you can use wysija with optinmonster. reply junior says: feb 9, 2014 at 7:19 am hi, i use a delayed buy button in my video sales page. to avoid losing returning customers that don’t want to wait for the button show up, i’ve placed a pop with exit intent bringing the visitor to the text version of the sales page, which shows the buy button right away. this way at least returning visitors know that they have this possibility to reach buy button instead of waiting for the button loads below video. then i’d like to know if there is a way to disable cookies on exit intent feature only for visitors who have closed the pop, and not for those who have already subscribed to the mailing list (and consequently accessed the buy button into the text version of the sales. thanks! reply george says: feb 6, 2014 at 7:30 pm although it seems that it will be annoying for some visitors, i really want to try it! i just need to know how the plugin will work without the exit intent. can you describe it please? reply wpbeginner support says: feb 6, 2014 at 9:40 pm please check out optinmonster‘s website for demonstration video and details about each feature. reply rina says: jan 26, 2014 at 10:52 pm hi guys, so the pop up webform that i just got before leaving your site is optinmonster? it must really work becaue i just signed up! reply wpbeginner support says: jan 27, 2014 at 2:22 pm yes, it is optinmonster. thanks for joining us. reply zeeshan says: mar 20, 2014 at 9:38 am it is a wonderful plugin and the first time i noticed a exit intent technology on the blog. i signed up right away because i knew this blog is something special and it really is. i have a wordpress website with mailchimp mailing list, i will invest in this plugin very soon. thanks for the knowledge. reply igor says: jan 31, 2014 at 9:30 am hello, i would like to promote the optin monster, but shareasale is probably one of the worst afiiliate tracking software i’ve ever worked with) there is one called http://www.idevdirect.com/ and it is much more flexible in terms of affiliate management from one side, and affiliate link tracking from another, and it is standalone, so you don’t depend on any external website… reply wpbeginner support says: feb 2, 2014 at 5:59 pm we find shareasale to be very good for our needs. reply michael says: jan 14, 2014 at 3:34 am i have purchased the pro version of this plugin thinking i had full control over the pop-up. i want to include my own text, image and a link to another site in the exit intent pop-up. i can’t for the life of me work out how to do this with optin monster. is it possible? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 25, 2014 at 5:29 pm you can definitely add your own text and image on the design tab when creating or modifying an optin. reply casey says: dec 28, 2013 at 4:52 pm hey guys~~ loving this, i am seriously looking at adding this across my site portfolio. quick question, does it allow people to sing up using either their facebook or twitter login?? thanks so much!! just found your site last night and am loving the content!! have an awesome day! casey reply wpbeginner support says: dec 30, 2013 at 11:27 am no, currently it does not support signing up using facebook or twitter. reply « 1 2 leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.