wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to turn your wordpress site into a social network how to turn your wordpress site into a social network last updated on august 8th, 2017 by editorial staff 267 shares share tweet share pin did you know that you can turn your wordpress site into a social network? a wordpress social network allows users to sign up, connect with each other, post messages, and more. in this article, we will show you how to turn your wordpress site into a social network. starting your wordpress powered social network wordpress is the most easy to use platform to build your own social network using the free buddypress plugin. it is super flexible and integrates beautifully with any kind of wordpress website. you’ll need a self-hosted wordpress.org website to start using buddypress. if you don’t have a website yet, then follow the instructions in our how to make a website guide, and you’ll be up and running in no time. what is buddypress? buddypress is a sister project of wordpress.org. it is available as a free wordpress plugin that you can install on your website. it turns your wordpress site into a social network allowing you to build your own online community. here are some of the features of a typical buddypress powered website: users can register on your website users will be able to create extended user profiles activity streams allow users to follow site-wide updates you will be able to create sub-communities with user groups users can add each other as friends users can send private messages to each other buddypress functionality can be extended using third-party plugins works with any standard compliant wordpress theme can be setup with your existing wordpress site setting up your wordpress social network using buddypress first thing you need to do is install and activate the buddypress plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation you need to visit settings » buddypress page to configure plugin settings. the settings page is divided into different sections. you’ll first see the components page which shows you currently active buddypress components on your site. the default components would work for most websites. however, you can activate or deactivate a component by simply checking and unchecking the box next to it. don’t forget to click on the save settings button to store your changes. next, you need to click on the pages tab. here you can select the pages you would like to use for different buddypress sections on your site. by default, the plugin will automatically create pages for you. you can change them and use a different page if you want. if you don’t see the option to select registration and activation pages, then you need to enable user registration on your wordpress site. now, you will need to switch to the ‘options’ tab. here you will find different settings that you can turn on/off in buddypress. the default settings will work for most websites, but you can review and change them as needed. displaying buddypress pages on your website if you visit your website after setting up buddypress, you’ll not see anything new added to your site. to change this, you need to add buddypress pages to your wordpress navigation menu. head over to appearance » menus page. select the buddypress pages from the left column and click on add to menu button. don’t forget to click on the save menu button to store your changes. you can now visit your website to see the links in action. clicking on a link will take you to a buddypress page. for example, the activity link will show you what’s going around in your buddypress social network. you can also post a status update from this page. buddypress works with all standard compliant wordpress themes. it also comes with its own templates to use in case your theme doesn’t have buddypress specific templates. if your theme isn’t compatible with buddypress, then checkout our list of the best wordpress themes for buddypress. managing your wordpress social network in buddypress building an online community requires a lot of active participation by the site admins. you would want to combat spam and moderate user generated content. if you are already using akismet, then buddypress will use it to catch spam. however, some unwanted content may still slip away. buddypress comes with built-in tools to deal with that. head over to the activity page in your wordpress admin area, and you will see recent activity on your website with different actions. you can sort the activity items by action, delete items, or mark them as spam. similarly, you can go to users page to manage user accounts. you can delete users, edit their profiles, or mark suspicious accounts as spam. you can manage new users by visiting the manage signups page. this allows you to directly activate new users, resend them activation email, or delete spam accounts. creating and managing groups in buddypress buddypress allows you and your users to create groups. these groups act as sub-communities on your website. each group can have it’s own members and activity streams. users can join these groups, invite other users, post messages, and more. to create a new group, you can head over to the groups page and click on the add new button at the top. this will bring you to the add new group page. first you need to provide a name and description for your group. after that, click on the ‘create group and continue’ button to proceed. on the next page, you can select group’s privacy settings and who can invite other users to the group. buddypress allows you to create public, private, and hidden groups. public groups are available for all users to join. private groups are listed in the groups directory, but users will have to request to join. if approved, then then they will be able to view its contents. hidden groups can only be seen by members who are part of the group. these groups are not listed in the groups directory, and they do not appear in search results. after setting up privacy options, click on the next button to continue. now you can provide a photo to be used as group’s profile photo. next, you need to add a cover photo for the group and click on the next button. lastly, you can invite other users to join the group. you can only invite users you’ve added as friends. if you haven’t added any friends yet, then you will have to wait for users to discover the group and join it on their own. click on the finish button and buddypress will now setup your group. users can view groups by visiting the groups page on your site which shows the directory of groups on your website. clicking on a group name will show the group’s page where users can join a group, post updates, and follow group activity. managing email notifications email notifications are the only way your buddypress site can alert users about new activity in their social stream. to encourage user participation, you may want to customize those email messages. buddypress allows you to modify email notifications sent by your wordpress social network. this helps you change the messages to match your site’s branding and tone. you can visit the emails page to see the list of default email notifications. you will see the email title, and the situation when the email is sent to a user. you can click on the add new button at the top to create a new email notification. you can also click on the edit button below an email message to change it. lastly, you can also use the email customizer to modify the email colors, header, and footer areas. troubleshooting buddypress many of the issues you’ll come across with buddypress will be similar to wordpress issues. make sure you check our list of common wordpress errors to see if it’s listed there. if your users are unable to receive email notifications, then follow the instructions in our guide on how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. for all other issues, check out our wordpress troubleshooting guide to understand what’s causing it, and how to find a solution. that’s all for now. we hope this article helped you turn your wordpress site into a social network using buddypress. you may also want to see our ultimate step by step wordpress security guide for beginners. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 267 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to start your own podcast (step by step) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 14 commentsleave a reply nigel stratton says: sep 10, 2019 at 7:52 pm would buddypress be a good choice if i wanted to build a social media that also required users to be able to upload audio and video files as part of their profiles? thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: sep 11, 2019 at 9:25 am buddypress should be able to handle that but for uploading videos, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/why-you-should-never-upload-a-video-to-wordpress/ reply tunde sanusi (tuham) says: jun 15, 2019 at 7:58 am as a web designer, am currently building a social networking site for a client of mine and we were initially using buddypress.. however along the line, we discover the profile photo part seems like an issue as people would have to crop their photo (which is a pain) before it works any code on how to skip the cropping photo part? reply wpbeginner support says: jun 17, 2019 at 11:35 am you would want to reach out to buddypress for what customizations are available. reply antony finney says: mar 31, 2019 at 12:31 pm some times its a pain to read what blog owners wrote but this web site is real user pleasant! reply wpbeginner support says: apr 1, 2019 at 1:28 pm glad you like our content reply onyela liberty says: jan 2, 2019 at 6:11 am hi am from nigeria and i want to build a social network for farmers how do i go is buddypress great which other plug ins do u recommend for bp reply wpbeginner support says: jan 2, 2019 at 3:17 pm you should be able to do what you are wanting with buddypress reply john richards says: feb 21, 2018 at 1:54 am which theme is used along with buddypress in the images shown here? reply sergio says: aug 10, 2017 at 3:40 pm i’m no expert, but i try to dig as deep as i can when using wordpress and plugins… having said so, bp is great and has a lot of functionlaity extended with plugins… perhaps too much? i am in the (nightmarish) process of researching options to create a social network, and i can say that i ended up letting go bp to favor a little awesome one who’s giving me some pretty good results in terms of flexibility and ease of use: ultimate member… maybe less extended / less features than bp (not than core bp) but it’s such a pleasure to work with! reply joshua orekhie says: aug 9, 2017 at 8:43 am this is really great. with this plugin, i can create a successful group channel for my website. does it comes with a pay version or free? reply dale reardon says: aug 9, 2017 at 3:16 am hi, buddypress is a good solution for a social community but we have recently had problems when expanding its capabilities because you need so many extra feature plugins from different authors and hence conflicts and bugs arise. we hare just in the process of moving our community over to peepso and when you add the power of all the addon plugins it is way more powerful than bp. if you would like us to write about our experience then let us know. dale. reply susan smith says: sep 5, 2017 at 11:22 am hi dale. visited your website and it’s really cool.would love to know the plug in you ended up using.thank you reply bonny says: oct 22, 2017 at 4:14 am good day, im based in south africa, and in process of building a classified social media website, what will you recommend to use buddypress or peepso. thanks reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.