wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to create a custom wordpress login page (ultimate guide) how to create a custom wordpress login page (ultimate guide) last updated on may 6th, 2019 by editorial staff 622 shares share tweet share pin do you want to create a custom wordpress login page for your website? if you run a wordpress membership site or an online store, then many of your users will often see the login page. customizing the default wordpress login page allows you to offer a better user experience. in this ultimate guide, we will show you different ways to create a custom wordpress login page. you can also use this tutorial for creating a custom woocommerce login page as well. here is what you will learn from this guide. why create a custom wordpress login page wordpress login page design examples creating a front-end custom login page in wordpress creating a wordpress login page using theme my login creating a custom wordpress login page using wpforms customizing your wordpress login form page design changing the login logo on wordpress login page change wordpress login logo and url using a plugin change wordpress login logo and url without a plugin (code) why create a custom wordpress login page? wordpress comes with a powerful user management system. this allows users to create accounts on ecommerce stores, membership websites, or on a blog. by default, the login page shows the wordpress branding and logo. this is fine if you are running a small blog, or you are the only person with admin access. however, if your website allows users to register and login, then a custom login page offers a better user experience. using your own logo and design makes your users feel at home. whereas redirecting them to the default wordpress login screen which looks nothing like your website may look suspicious to your users. lastly, the default login screen does not contain anything but the login form. by creating a custom login page you can utilize it to promote other pages or special promotions. that being said, let’s take a look at some examples of custom wordpress login page designs. wordpress login page design examples website owners can customize the wordpress login page using different styles and techniques. some create a custom login page that uses their website’s theme and colors. others, modify the default login page by adding a custom background, colors, and their own logo to it. 1. wpforms wpforms is the best wordpress contact form plugin on the market. coincidentally, their plugin also includes an add-on to create beautiful wordpress login and registration forms, which we will show you later in this article. their custom login page uses a two column layout. the left column contains the login form and the right column is used to highlight promotions and other call-to-actions. in the example above, they’re using the login page to share their annual report. it uses custom branding, background illustration, and brand colors to create a unique login experience. 2. rock my wedding rock my wedding’s website uses a popup modal to display login and registration form. the advantage of using a popup is that users can log in without leaving the page. it saves them from a new page load and offers a faster user experience. 3. jacquelynne steves jacquelynne steeves is an arts and crafts website where the author publishes content about decorating home, making quilts, patterns, embroidery, and more. their login page uses a custom background image matching their website’s theme with the login form on the right. 4. church motion graphics the login page of this motion graphics design company uses a colorful background reflecting what their business is all about. it uses the same site header, footer, and navigation menus on the login screen. the login form itself is quite simple with a dark background. 5. mitsloan management review mitsloan management review website uses the default wordpress login screen. it uses custom css with their own logo to hide the wordpress branding. creating a front-end custom login page in wordpress there are several wordpress plugins that you can use to create a front-end custom login page in wordpress. we will show you two different plugins, and you can choose the one that best suits you. creating a wordpress login page using theme my login the first thing you need to do is install and activate the theme my login plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, theme my login automatically creates urls for your custom login, logout, registration, forgot password, and reset password actions. you can customize these wordpress login urls by visiting theme my login » general page. scroll down to the ‘slugs’ section to modify these urls used by the plugin for login actions. theme my login also allows you to use shortcodes to create custom login and registration pages. you can simply create a page for each action and then add the page slug here, so that the plugin can find and redirect users properly. let’s start with the login page. head over to page » add new to create a new wordpress page. you need to give your page a title and then enter the following shortcode “[theme-my-login]” inside the content area. you can now publish your page and preview it to see your custom login page in action. repeat the process to create other pages by using the following shortcodes. [theme-my-login action=”register”] for registration form. [theme-my-login action=”lostpassword”] for the lost password page. [theme-my-login action=”resetpass”] use it on the reset password page. creating a custom wordpress login page using wpforms wpforms is the best wordpress form builder plugin on the market. it allows you to easily create custom login and registration forms for your website. wpforms is a premium wordpress plugin, and you will need at least their pro plan to access user registration add-on. wpbeginner users can get 50% discount by using our wpforms coupon code: save50 the first thing you need to do is install and activate the wpforms plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to visit wpforms » settings page to enter your license key. you can find this information under your account on wpforms website. after entering the license key, you would be able to install add-ons. go ahead and visit wpforms » addons page and locate the user registration addon. next, click on the install addon button to download and activate the addon. you are now ready to create your own custom login forms. head over to wpforms » add new page and scroll down to ‘user login form’ template. you need to click on ‘create a user login form’ button to continue. wpforms will load the user login form with required fields. you can click on the fields to add your own description or text around them. you can change other settings as well. for example, it automatically adds ‘submit’ as the button title. you can click on it and then change it to login instead. you can also decide what happens once a user is successfully logged in. go to settings » confirmation tab and select an action. you can redirect the user to any other url, redirect them to the homepage, or simply show them a message that they are now logged in. once you are satisfied with the form settings, click on the save button at the top right corner of the screen and close the form builder. adding your custom login form to a wordpress page wpforms makes it super easy to add your custom login form on any wordpress post or page. simply edit the page where you want to add the login form or create a new one. on the page edit screen, add the wpforms block to your content area. next, select the login form you created earlier and wpforms block will automatically load it inside the content area. you can now continue editing the login form page, or save and publish your changes. customizing your wordpress login form page design by default, your custom wordpress login form page will use your theme’s page template and styles. it will have your theme’s navigation menus, header, footer, and sidebar widgets. if you want to completely take over the entire page and design something from scratch, then you can use a wordpress page builder plugin. with a page builder plugin, you can create a custom page layout and then add login form widget provided by theme my login or wpforms. in the screenshot below, we have used the popular beaver builder plugin. we used a background image on a fullscreen layout and then added two columns. in one column we added some text and a button. in the other column, we added the wpforms widget. the benefit of beaver builder is that it’s 100% drag and drop solution. note: since you are already logged in, both theme my login and wpforms plugins may not show a live preview of the login form. wpforms plugin has an option where you can turn this off in the form settings. if wordpress page builder plugins are not your thing, then you can use custom css to style the form and the login page itself. alternatively, you can also use css hero plugin to easily add custom css styles. change the wordpress login logo and url you don’t always need to create a completely custom wordpress login page for your website. in fact, a lot of websites just replace the wordpress logo and logo url while still using the default login page. if you want to replace the wordpress logo on the login screen with your own logo, then you can easily do so using a wordpress plugin or by adding custom code. we will show you both methods you can use one that best suits you. change wordpress login logo and url using a plugin the first thing you need to do is install and activate the colorlib login customizer. plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, the plugin adds a new menu item labeled ‘login customizer’ to wordpress admin sidebar. clicking it will launch the login customizer. the login customizer will load your default wordpress login screen with customization options on the left and live preview on the right. to replace the wordpress logo with your own, click on the ‘logo options’ tab on the right. from here you can hide wordpress logo, upload your own custom logo, change logo url and text. the plugin also allows you to completely customize the default wordpress login page. you can add columns, background image, change login form colors, and more. basically, you can create a custom wordpress login page without changing the default wordpress login url. once you are finished, simply click on the publish button to save your changes. you can now visit the wordpress login page to see your custom login form in action. change wordpress login logo and url without plugin (code) this method allows you to manually replace the wordpress logo on the login screen with your own custom logo. first, you need to upload your custom logo to the media library. go to media » add new page and upload your custom logo. once you have uploaded the image, click on the ‘edit’ link next to it. this will open the edit media page where you need to copy the file url and paste it in a blank text file on your computer. next, you need to add the following code to your theme’s functions.php file or a site-specific plugin. 
function wpb_login_logo() { ?>
    <style type="text/css">
        #login h1 a, .login h1 a {
            background-image: url(http://path/to/your/custom-logo.png);
		height:100px;
		width:300px;
		background-size: 300px 100px;
		background-repeat: no-repeat;
        padding-bottom: 10px;
        }
    </style>
<?php }
add_action( 'login_enqueue_scripts', 'wpb_login_logo' );

 don’t forget to replace the background-image url with the file url you copied earlier. you can also adjust other css properties to match your custom logo image. you can now visit the wordpress login page to see your custom logo in action. this code only replaces the wordpress logo. it does not change the logo link which points to the wordpress.org website. let’s change this. simply add the following code to your theme’s functions.php file or a site-specific plugin. you can add this code right below the code you added earlier. 
function wpb_login_logo_url() {
    return home_url();
}
add_filter( 'login_headerurl', 'wpb_login_logo_url' );

function wpb_login_logo_url_title() {
    return 'your site name and info';
}
add_filter( 'login_headertitle', 'wpb_login_logo_url_title' );
 don’t forget to replace ‘your site name and info’ with your site’s actual name. the custom logo on your login screen will now point to your site’s home page. that’s all. we hope this article helped you learn different ways to create a wordpress login page for your website. you may also want to see our ultimate wordpress security guide for tips on improving your wordpress login security. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 622 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to start your own podcast (step by step) revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 78 commentsleave a reply hasibul islam says: apr 10, 2019 at 3:50 pm hello there, how can i edit the login page without any plugin!??? with html and css…and in theme file..where is the login file… which i have to edit!!! please help me.. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: apr 11, 2019 at 10:46 am for that kind of customization, you would want to look at the wordpress codex for examples: https://codex.wordpress.org/customizing_the_login_form reply s.kamal says: mar 15, 2019 at 6:44 pm my problem is when a user login, he or she will be directed to wp admin dashboard.. how do i fixed that? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2019 at 11:50 am you would want to take a look at our article on how to redirect users on login here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/how-to-redirect-users-after-successful-login-in-wordpress/ reply david dlima says: feb 5, 2019 at 3:24 am i do not see the screens as shown in the article. is there a paid version of this plugin? all i can see is the settings and extensions options in the tyl admin menu. david reply wpbeginner support says: feb 5, 2019 at 11:11 am the theme my login plugin had a large overhaul after we created this article, we will certainly look into updating this article. reply david dlima says: feb 5, 2019 at 2:31 am hi, this is an awesome article. i have one doubt in this whole process. how do i validate the username and password ? i do not see anything on that in the article. for e,g, how does the form know whether the username and password is valid? regards david dlima reply wpbeginner support says: feb 5, 2019 at 11:11 am it would check your wordpress database to see if the user is valid reply kris says: jan 28, 2019 at 3:25 pm i’m new to wordpress and am trying to set up a small blog on my own. i’m toying with the idea of having readers ‘sign or log in’ to be able to gain access to extra features. from what i understand in this thread is how to create the log in form and apply it to your site, but how do you adjust the access to features or essentially what the are logging in for? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 29, 2019 at 10:50 am for what it sounds like you’re looking for, you may want to look into a membership plugin depending on the features you’re wanting them to have access to: https://www.wpbeginner.com/plugins/5-best-wordpress-membership-plugins-compared/ reply ahsan says: jan 24, 2019 at 2:50 pm this plugin is not available in this time. so, how can i create login page? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 24, 2019 at 3:12 pm while theme my login was updated after this article was created, both plugins should still be available to use to create a login page. reply suresh says: oct 6, 2018 at 11:14 am hi , thanks for all your replies and videos. great help! i have three questions, would highly appreciate, if you answer. (i)i am also puzzled what could be the use of “login widget”, if it does not include an option for sign-up. so the users, who are not registered, will have to be directed to some other page. (ii) how to integrate social login, with the “elementor login wigdget”? (iii) is there no way for creating ” registration form” using elementor. thanks suresh reply josh says: aug 3, 2018 at 9:27 pm i’m blown away! i’m not a “tech” guy, but i own 6 or 7 badly, barely managed websites. i have huge aspirations, but not the talent or team to go with it. i may take me until i’m 100, but eventually i’ll build out my vision. i working on it. regardless, that’s not the point of this post. it’s just to describe me. i’m looking for more automation, and specifically was looking for a way to create/buy/obtain a pop-up with social logins (fb & google) to build my list, which, if you can recommend one, i’d be most appreciative. i read one of your articles and as i was leaving, saw you ultimate toolkit. in just briefly skimming through it, i found answers to several things i’ve wanted to know about and 2 or 3 questions i didn’t even know i had. i know a truly valuable lead magnet when i see one, and i just wanted to take a second to commend you on this one. free value! thank you joshua houston reply martin says: jun 19, 2018 at 2:39 pm a really great article, easy to understand and implemented on my site in minutes. thank you. reply tj says: jun 13, 2018 at 10:05 pm theme my login is no longer an option. they went to an all paid model and rewrote their entire plugin. reply kareem says: apr 8, 2018 at 4:12 pm hello, when users try to register through tml they don’t receive activation e-mail .. how can i solve that !? reply wpbeginner support says: apr 9, 2018 at 4:44 pm hey kareem, please see our article on how to fix wordpress not sending email issue. reply mukesh patel says: apr 5, 2018 at 4:29 am can i customise my default wordpress login page without any plugin. actually i need only to change wordpress logo on /wp-login page. reply eymiel says: apr 4, 2018 at 1:48 am can i use these forms for a modal? because im trying to make a modal log in. reply wpbeginner support says: apr 4, 2018 at 5:28 pm hi eymiel, if your modal accepts shortcodes then you can add form shortcode in there. reply karrie daze says: mar 19, 2018 at 1:29 pm is there a way to send members to a login specific page after they have logged in? tia reply wpbeginner support says: mar 19, 2018 at 5:35 pm hi karrie, yes both theme my login and wpforms allow you to choose where to send users after they have logged in. reply bricabrac says: jan 28, 2018 at 6:38 am what i would actually like to do is get users to land on a certain page on my website no matter where they come from or which link they use – even if ti is to one of the other pages on my site. once they have landed, i want to redirect them to the page they chose to visit. can we do this and how? reply nick says: jan 11, 2018 at 2:39 pm i want a section where staff can log in to a single page where there will be a form for them to log in their daily work. is this possible and if so which plugin would best suit my needs? reply sierra says: dec 7, 2017 at 3:26 pm hello! i’ve created a free resource library for my website and i want to collect emails in exchange for the password in order to grow my email list. i am having such a hard time finding a way to customize a password-entry page because i don’t want anyone to have their own account or anything, i just want them to enter a password that i’ve set so they can gain access to the library. i don’t like the wp password protection feature because i want to be able to collect emails on the same page that they enter the password on so it’s like “if you have the password, enter it here. if you don’t have the password, enter your email and i’ll send it to you.” would i be able to do something like that here? do you have any suggestions? i would so greatly appreciate it because i’ve been stuck on this issue for like 3 days now! thanks so much, sierra reply wpbeginner support says: dec 7, 2017 at 7:01 pm hi sierra, if you are using wpforms, then you can redirect users to the download page. you can also send them an email notification with the download link or password. another solution could be sending the link or the password in an auto reply using your email marketing software. this way you will also be able to verify their email address. hope this helps reply robert says: jul 11, 2018 at 2:48 am hi sierra, i have come across your post. i have just started building my blog, and i am facing the same issue as you have had. would you mind sharing your advice on how to create a password protected page for users and obtain their email address for the newsletter? thank you in advance, rob reply rahul tyagi says: nov 22, 2017 at 10:31 am thanks for the tutorial really its an awesome plugin.. reply solomon says: nov 12, 2017 at 1:58 pm i have one customized page for specific user, do you have any plugin for that ? reply mridul says: oct 31, 2017 at 11:22 pm how to add social media login ? i want to add social media login but i cant use any thirdparty plugin. how to do reply alex says: sep 23, 2017 at 12:52 pm this is a great article but how can we do what you currently have at wpbeginner.com/wp-admin it asks for a password before loading the page. how can we achieve this? reply arize says: oct 12, 2017 at 1:53 am that’s some bullet proof sh*t going on there. reply mike says: sep 12, 2017 at 10:51 am need to pay $ 199/yeart for having login form addon in wp forms!!!!!! reply dean wilson says: sep 5, 2017 at 7:38 am i am using plugin ‘admin custom login’ and would like this page for normal subscriber login/register. can i make a menu page in wp with this address? thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 6, 2017 at 5:26 pm hi dean, yes you can add it to the navigation menu and your users will be able to login through this page. reply chaz h says: aug 1, 2017 at 10:15 am hi, i’d just like to create a login page and link so users can upload posts and photo’s. i tried tml but nothing seems to happen when i refresh my home page. and my version of wpforms is lite. i don’t have money to purchase the full version if thats what is necessary. just want my users to have a log in page! and tips reply wpbeginner support says: aug 3, 2017 at 12:03 am hey chaz, please check your theme my login settings. you can also try updating wordpress permalinks. simply visit settings » permalinks and then click on the save changes button without changing anything. reply numan malik says: jun 8, 2017 at 7:26 am hi i’m trying to find the coding for customize the wrodpress login page using my own custom fields. can u help me what is the code for it? reply kris says: jun 5, 2017 at 9:17 pm i need help, so i need to be able to add a client login to my website but just for a few pages, i can’t remember how to do this. i don’t build site all the time. i want the site to be free so everyone can look at it i just need a few pages to be for my clients and agents. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 6, 2017 at 5:43 pm hey kris, please take a look at our article on how to add temporary login in wordpress. reply siri says: may 10, 2017 at 3:27 pm the username and password for the login page, is that the same for accessing the admin area, or do we need to create a new username and password for the custom login area? reply roger thomas says: mar 5, 2017 at 4:59 am tml is a nice plugins that’s we are using on our website. however, login page sometimes redirected to home page on our travel website, but whenever cache are deleted, it’s working fine… thanks for your suggestions.. reply nishant says: feb 1, 2017 at 2:12 am i was looking for creating own login page template with all the functionalities. is there any way of creating our own login page template without plugin. or codex section where we can learn and create our own login template. reply clever ubiagege says: jan 21, 2017 at 4:57 am hi, i tried implementing the theme my login plugin to my website, but now i can not even login as an admin. what could be the problem? reply saurabh saneja says: jan 25, 2017 at 4:56 am hi, just you can open from yousite/wp-login.php replace yoursite with whatever is the name of your website. if you want to remove the plugin change it name to something else by accessing the plugin through filezilla/winscp or from your cpanel . reply adi prabhune says: oct 12, 2016 at 1:52 pm hello, just wanted to know if when you create a login like this, if the members of the site are redirected to their own account. i run a tax company and i want my clients to be able to access their account and then upload files through there, as well as see the status of their specific tax return. their account would have to be linked to their login ids that way they can see what is specific to them. please let me know, thank you. reply veer choudhary says: aug 2, 2016 at 8:35 am good wordpress theme for developing reply rupesh says: mar 3, 2016 at 1:37 am plug-in is amazing,but i it is showing rergistration not allowed reply saurabh saneja says: jan 25, 2017 at 4:57 am same here!! i wish i could find a solution to this!! reply saurabh saneja says: jan 25, 2017 at 6:52 am from wordpress backend settings ->general allow users registration. it will be something like that: registration settings allow new registrations new registrations settings registration is disabled. user accounts may be registered. logged in users may register new sites. both sites and user accounts can be registered. reply prasad says: feb 17, 2016 at 7:29 am hi, i have installed the tml plugin but i couldn’t find any shortcodes for ‘registration’ & ‘login’ pages to show them on the front-end. please help me. thanks. reply ewan says: nov 16, 2015 at 3:38 am installed tml but no login showing on the website. ( latest update of wp no page id available in general settings. so tml does not work. reply wpbeginner support says: nov 16, 2015 at 5:05 pm we tested it with the latest version of wordpress, and we were unable to confirm your report. the plugin works fine at our test sites. reply tom says: nov 17, 2015 at 6:11 am you might want to edit the article. tml no longer appears in ‘settings’ but in the main dashboard menu as ‘tml’… took me ages to realise as there are old issues around it needing you to disable other plugins etc. so i’d gone through a lot of troubleshooting, when it was staring me in the face! reply wpbeginner support says: nov 18, 2015 at 4:42 pm please take a look at our new article how to add front end login page and widgets in wordpress steven denger says: jul 30, 2015 at 12:02 am i have been trying for god knows how many days and today several hours installing and uninstalling login/registration plugins. i have followed every lesson along the way and followed yours closely. but – another total failure. this did not work. it created all the pages but put the profile/registration form on all of them. i give up! how do all of these sites get logins? because nothing what-so-ever works for me. i can write a book on all the plugins and programs that i have tried. i am not going to hire a web developer to put one in because this task should not be that hard. but i can tell you it must be . i will just have to do without like a lot of things in wordpress that are just not accessable to all – just web developers. it is too bad that one cannot have a decent normal site like the web developers can. doing without a lot of functions is getting to be a real problem with me and wordpress. when the forums do not help – and the plugins don’t work – i just just have to give up and do without. reply kris says: jun 5, 2017 at 10:29 pm it is not hard nor did i use a plugin last time, it is on the menu page but i forgot how to do this, a guy wanted to charge me $80 to do this and i won’t pay either. it is easy i can’t remember how to do it, i have been looking for days. reply kathy says: jul 4, 2015 at 9:56 am go t fed up trying with this., i’m sure it’s a great plugin but it is inconsistent. i cannot find the login page – it appears intermittently and then i cannot get a registration page to work properly. pfft! tired reply joe barrett says: jun 17, 2015 at 4:18 pm is there a way/ any documentation to do this with out a plugin? please help. reply nate says: jun 25, 2015 at 1:03 pm http://www.paulund.co.uk/create-your-own-wordpress-login-page# reply anna says: may 29, 2015 at 10:59 am waw, thanks for the video, very helpful. one further question: i am building a site with a paid membership. i want to customize not only the login page but also the wp default page you get when your are logged in (i.e. with the dashboard on the left etc,…) is there a plugin for that?or coding is necessary? thanks anna reply jonny says: jan 18, 2015 at 8:27 pm does anybody know how to move a site that has this plugin installed? when i try to move the site, the login page completely stops working. thanks for any suggestions. reply raina says: jul 29, 2016 at 2:03 am custom login form is the best of all the plugins that i have tried. reply martin says: aug 6, 2018 at 2:36 am hi, there could be a few reasons why this could happen. try disabling the plugin, then move the site, refresh your permalinks, then enable it again. reply kkramer2195 says: oct 23, 2014 at 4:21 pm i came across this plugin recently and love it!!!! i am trying to figure out how to verify a person is logged in prior to allowing them to write a post using gravity forms. all forms work properly, i found generic code to redirect to wp-login.php but since i am using the plugin, i want it to redirect to the same as the theme my login screen does. here is sample code: (setup as page_loggedin.php) <?php else: wp_die('sorry, you must first log in to view this page. you can register free here.'); endif; ?> i don’t want hard coded site references, so any help with the php code will be appreciated! preferred choice would be if user not logged in the redirect like the plugin does (but i can’t find how it does it yet) ken reply wpbeginner staff says: oct 23, 2014 at 11:07 pm seems like the code you wanted to share is stripped out by disqus. please refer to syntax highlighting in disqus. reply discretecomponent says: apr 25, 2014 at 4:36 pm i just got theme my login, version 6.3.9, and installed it into my wordpress theme (wp version 3.9). i activated the plugin but i see no theme my loging inside (under) the setting what i do see is a tml following under settings that does show the modules & general but no tabs. help! reply chen says: mar 1, 2014 at 11:53 pm how can i create a platform where visitors to the site can create a profile and edit it. reply frbl says: jan 20, 2014 at 6:52 pm like this plugin how do you remove the bullets for ‘lost password’ and ‘register’ if on the login page? and remove ‘lost password’ if on the register page? i want to keep these options but remove the bullets. reply j says: jan 7, 2014 at 6:59 am do i need to upgrade my wordpress to enterprise version in order to have the plugin feature for my website and install your custom login feautre? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 7, 2014 at 11:00 am if you can not see plugins on your site that’t probably because you are using wordpress.com and not a self-hosted wordpress.org blog. see the difference between wordpress.com and wordpress.org reply joyce evans says: aug 26, 2013 at 10:08 pm can this log-in page be used to log into a specific page of a website? i don’t want people logging into the admin section, but when they click on the link for a particular page, i want people to be able to log in with a username and password for just the one page. they need to be able to set up an account and create their own password, thus the reason i can’t use the password-protected option offered per page by wordpress. all members’ usernames and passwords need to be unique. reply ruchi agrawal says: jul 22, 2013 at 2:48 am its very good plugin to login. but if we want to disable the header and footer using this plugin then how we can do this. if anyone knows this then please upload your answer and give me it on ly email id. reply lashunna r. says: jul 21, 2013 at 1:56 am this plug-in is fine except if someone loses their password. i don’t know if it’s me, but the plug-in doesn’t seem to communicate with wordpress very well. for instance, james loses his password to my site. he requests that a new password be sent to him. james receives an email saying that he lost his password, but he should go to *blank* website to reset it. unfortunately, there’s nowhere for james to go to retrieve/reset his password. now, i could be wrong about this, but so far, i’ve found no way around this problem reply subbareddy says: apr 23, 2013 at 5:43 am it worked for me its nice plugin reply pete says: feb 27, 2013 at 2:51 pm the plugin isn’t compatible with the latest version of wordpress reply editorial staff says: feb 27, 2013 at 5:28 pm it is compatible. the only reason why the plugin author hasn’t updated the plugin’s readme file is because they haven’t come out with new features yet. it works just fine. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) bluehost coupon get over 63% off on bluehost packages and a free domain of your choice. weglot coupon get 15% off on weglot multilingual plugin for wordpress. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.