menumenu hike getting started >> trip planning hiking gear clothing camping food & water health & safety navigation hiking trails special hiking >> hiking with kids hiking with dogs women's hiking 50+ hiking training for hiking solo hiking ultralight hiking mountaineering hiking resources >> hiking community hiking gear - ebook outdoor clothing - video course beginner's guide to hiking hiking checklist friday fix gift guide for hikers top 25 hiking blogs dive scuba diving >> scuba diving fundamentals dive safety diving courses scuba wetsuits scuba gear scuba diving destinations special diving >> freediving spearfishing specialty diving women's diving liveaboard diving diving resources >> diving community gift guide for divers top 25 scuba diving blogs paddle kayaking >> kayaking fundamentals kayaking gear kayaking clothes transport & storage kayaking safety kayaking skills kayaking destinations kayak fishing >> kayak fishing fundamentals fishing kayaks kayak fishing accessories sup >> sup fundamentals sup boards sup accessories paddling resources >> kayaking community gift guide for kayakers top 25 kayak fishing blogs top 25 kayaking blogs top 25 sup blogs climb climbing >> climbing fundamentals climbing clothing climbing gear climbing safety more climbing >> skills & techniques climbing training bouldering ice climbing climbing resources >> climbing community gift guide for climbers top 25 climbing blogs cycle mountain biking >> mountain biking fundamentals mountain biking gear mountain biking clothing bike maintenance mountain biking skills mountain biking training bike touring >> bicycle touring fundamentals bicycle touring gear bicycle touring costs bicycle touring destinations bikepacking fat biking cycling resources >> cycling community gift guide for mountain bikers top 25 bicycle touring blogs top 25 mountain biking blogs snow skiing >> skiing fundamentals skiing gear skiing clothing skiing skills skiing safety snowshoeing snowboarding >> snowboarding fundamentals snowboarding gear snowboarding clothing snowboarding safety snow resources >> skiing & snowboarding community gift guide for skiers & snowboarders top 25 skiing blogs top 25 snowboarding blogs photo outdoor photography >> fundamentals travel photography landscape photography wildlife photography underwater photography >> fundamentals uw cameras uw camera accessories photo resources >> outdoor photography community gift guide for photographers top 25 outdoor photography blogs top 25 underwater photography blogs water surfing >> surfing gear surfing clothing other boardsports kitesurfing sailing >> sailing fundamentals sailing clothing sailing gear water resources >> surfing community sailing community top 25 surfing blogs top 25 sailing blogs shop blog community about about us privacy policy terms & conditions contact us jobs search menumenu hike getting started hiking basics hiking gear outdoor clothing camping food & water health & safety navigation hiking trails special hiking hiking with kids hiking with dogs women's hiking 50+ hiking training for hiking solo hiking ultralight hiking mountaineering hiking resources hiking community hiking gear - ebook outdoor clothing - video course beginner's guide to hiking hiking checklist friday fix gift guide for hikers top 25 hiking blogs dive scuba diving scuba diving fundamentals dive safety diving courses scuba wetsuits scuba gear scuba diving destinations special diving freediving spearfishing specialty diving women's diving liveaboard diving diving resources diving community gift guide for divers top 25 scuba diving blogs paddle kayaking kayaking fundamentals kayaking gear kayaking clothes transport & storage kayaking safety kayaking skills kayaking destinations kayak fishing kayak fishing fundamentals fishing kayaks kayak fishing accessories sup sup fundamentals sup boards sup accessories paddling resources kayaking community gift guide for kayakers top 25 kayaking blogs top 25 kayak fishing blogs top 25 stand up paddleboarding blogs climb climbing climbing fundamentals climbing clothing climbing gear climbing safety more climbing climbing skills & techniques training for climbing bouldering ice climbing climbing resources climbing community gift guide for climbers top 25 climbing blogs cycle mountain biking mountain biking fundamentals mountain biking gear mountain biking clothing bike maintenance mountain biking skills training for mountain biking bike touring bike touring fundamentals bike touring gear bike touring costs bike touring destinations bikepacking fat biking cycling resources cycling community gift guide for mountain bikers top 25 mountain biking blogs top 25 bicycle touring blogs snow skiing skiing fundamentals skiing gear skiing clothing skiing skills skiing safety snowshoeing snowboarding snowboarding fundamentals snowboarding gear snowboarding clothing snowboarding safety snow resources skiing & snowboarding community gift guide for skiers & snowboarders top 25 skiing blogs top 25 snowboarding blogs photo outdoor photography fundamentals travel photography landscape photography wildlife photography underwater photography fundamentals uw cameras uw camera accessories photo resources outdoor photography community gift guide for photographers top 25 outdoor photography blogs water surfing surfing gear surfing clothing other boardsports kitesurfing sailing sailing fundamentals sailing clothing sailing gear water resources surfing community sailing community top 25 surfing blogs top 25 sailing blogs shop members how do we review here at the adventure junkies, it’s our mission to get you started in outdoor activities. for each activity, you might require some gear and special equipment. that’s why you’ll find articles on this site about the best outdoor gear – like tents, dive computers, and backpacks – for people who don’t want to take a lot of time figuring out what to get. the idea is to make it easier for you to buy some great gear quickly and get outside. how do you choose what you recommend? do you test each product? first, we find the best writer for the topic we can then put them to work. we study product materials put forth by companies, read forums and user reviews on sites like amazon, and study all the best articles and papers we can on the topic. while many times our reviewers have used or personally own products that are featured in our articles we do not test each individual product. keep reading to find out why we do this. why don’t you test each individual product? it’s not because we are cheapskates or too lazy to test each product. it’s because we do not believe it is the best way to go about reviewing. it’s our goal to bring you the very best information out there so you can make an informed decision. so instead, we approach our reviews in a scientific manner in that we conduct a rigorous meta-analysis. in short, an overall picture that combines the results from multiple studies and reviews in an effort to provide an accurate conclusion about the best outdoor gear. the benefit of a meta-analysis over a product review is that it includes a consolidated review of a large, and often complex, sometimes conflicting, body of information rather than a personal opinion. this form of analysis is proven to be more accurate simply because there is more data. in short, by using this form of review process, we can reduce the writer’s personal bias and give you information that is based on facts rather than opinions. why only the “best”? when we say the best, we don’t mean the one that costs the most or has the most features. in many cases, top-of-the-line models are unnecessary for most people. for this reason, we don’t just give you one model to choose from. we choose a variety of models to suit different experience levels and needs because we know what’s “the best” for one person might not be the best option for you. what’s with those buy buttons & amazon links? we support ourselves and our work off those links. each time you make a purchase through those, the adventure junkies receives a small commission. you aren’t charged anything extra to do this and you help support this website. here is more info on how you can support the adventure junkies. the earnings we receive in affiliate income allow us to improve your user experience, hire the best writers and develop new products and services. we look at it as a win-win and we hope you do too. doesn’t getting affiliate fees create a conflict of interest and bias? yes and no. it would create a bias if we chose to exclude gear just because it does not have an affiliate program attached to it. however, it’s our policy to provide you with the best options, even if that means we will not receive a commission in doing so. the real beauty of affiliate programs is that they allow us to remain independent and honest. we do not accept products from companies and we don’t have any relationship with any brands. also, you might have noticed our site is clean of those annoying banner ads and sugar coated sponsored articles. this is all thanks in part to affiliate commissions earnings. for us, our reputation and relationship with readers is what comes first. that’s why we make our best efforts to recommend the things that we truly believe are worth your money. if you aren’t happy with one of the products we recommend, you can return the piece of gear and we will receive zero dollars. how can i share my personal experience with a piece of gear? we love to hear what our readers have to say about their gear. it truly helps others who might have the same needs as you to find what they are looking for. to share your thoughts please leave a comment directly on the article. the most helpful comments are straight to the point and scannable. here’s what we suggest you include. what you love about your piece of gear. what you wish was different. who would you recommend it to. of course, feel free to make it your own but do keep in mind it will be most useful if it is concise. your site is great, i want to help support your work! thanks, we’re so happy to hear that. you can do that here. tweet pin share email flip 0 shares water activities scuba diving, spearfishing sea kayaking sup, kayak fishing underwater photo surfing, sailing land activities day hiking, backpacking mtb, bike touring rock climbing skiing, snowboarding outdoor photo © 2019 the adventure junkies | all rights reserved. about how do we review privacy policy terms contact jobs this website uses cookies to improve your experience. we'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.accept reject read more × privacy overview privacy overview