back to udemy login sign up back to udemy sign up login back to blog how one mom fits in learning web development during nap time may 11, 2019 by maggie troedsonstudents | udemy news source: getty images thirty-three-year-old tina lives in germany, takes care of her one-and-a-half-year-old son, and learns web development in her rare spare time. she’s currently working through andrei neagoie‘s “the complete web developer in 2019: zero to mastery” and anthony alicea‘s “javascript – understanding the weird parts.” in the spirit of celebrating mothers this weekend, we sat down with her to ask how and why she commits to learning. what piqued your interest in web development? i did some research into how video games are made and stumbled across a tool to easily make my own story-based browser game. it seemed idiot-proof, so i tried it. the more i got into it, the more i realized i needed a lot more knowledge of what happens under the hood in order to make my game more visually appealing and interactive. so, i guess you could say i started learning front-end web development without realizing it! i continued to learn the fundamentals of web development, and, eventually, my best friend recommended udemy as a resource for my learning. what was the first udemy course you took? i started andrei neagoie‘s “the complete web developer in 2019: zero to mastery” back in february, and it gave my web development learning process a huge boost. i chose to take andrei’s course because it focuses on in-demand skills that can be applied to work right now, as opposed to the more unnecessary, nice-to-know parts. that was important to me because, between my job and a toddler, i don’t have a lot of time to study. although i started learning about web development mostly for fun, i’ve realized through taking udemy courses that this is something i might want to turn into a career one day. i’m halfway through the “zero to mastery” course now, and andrei is a remarkably motivating instructor; in the past i’ve left courses unfinished, but this time i’m determined to see it through the end. how have you balanced learning time and raising a toddler? learning on udemy is very parent-friendly because you can take courses at your own pace. since i returned to my job after parental leave, i have to wait until my son is asleep before i can study; luckily, all lectures in my courses are short enough to fit into his nap time. sometimes it feels like my progress is slow, but even one short lecture is a step, and with perseverance we can achieve anything, right? well, almost anything! being a parent actually helps with my studies. as a parent, i problem-solve every day. i must choose wisely how to spend my limited spare time, but it’s easy to stay motivated once i do. i always look forward to study time, which is usually for two or three hours after my son falls asleep. how has learning helped you? learning on udemy has definitely had a positive impact on my life. i know these new skills will open doors in the future, and i’m eager to find out what changes await! with a toddler, it’s not easy to find the time, concentration, and calmness to focus on learning. but it’s definitely worth it. i share my learning/coding journey on twitter. it helps me stay motivated and engage with the welcoming tech community, and i hope it can encourage other students in a similar situation to continue working on their goals and dreams, even though it might be really challenging. remember: if i can do it, you can, too! previous star wars day 2019: may the learning be with you next tv meets irl: what workplace shows most resemble your workplace? udemy for business become an instructor mobile apps about us careers blog topics support affiliate english copyright @ 2020 udemy, inc. terms privacy policy and cookie policy intellectual property