wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how to make the most out of wpbeginner’s free resources how to make the most out of wpbeginner’s free resources last updated on november 20th, 2019 by editorial staff 494 shares share tweet share pin often new wpbeginner readers ask us how can they get maximum benefits from all the free resources available on our website. wpbeginner is the largest free wordpress resource site for beginners. we have been publishing free wordpress guides, how-to tutorials, and videos since 2009. in this article, we will show you how to make the most out of wpbeginner’s free resources. if you haven’t started a website yet, then please take a look at following guides: how to start a website (step by step) how to start a wordpress blog (step by step) how to start an online store (step by step) how to start a podcast with wordpress (step by step) how to create a membership site with wordpress (step by step) if you already have a website, then follow the resources below: 1. subscribe to wpbeginner newsletter signing up for the wpbeginner newsletter is the best way to stay updated with wpbeginner’s new posts and resources. when we write a new article, it will land directly in your email inbox (weekly). you’ll also get links to our other resources that you may have missed. 2. signup for our free video tutorials if you are just starting out with wordpress, then our wordpress beginners videos should be your first destination. we hate to see many big companies selling such basic education for hundreds of dollars. this is why we decided to make it available for free. these hd quality videos are built for beginner level users. our 23-step easy to follow video tutorials cover from the basics to advanced wordpress topics and will help you get started with wordpress in no time. 3. join our facebook group (wpbeginner engage) with more than 20,000+ members, our facebook group, wpbeginner engage is one of the fastest-growing wordpress group on facebook. it is the most casual and often the fastest way to get wordpress help from our wordpress experts, and other motivated website owners like yourself. our team members actively participate in the group to answer user questions. we also do facebook live sessions with our founder and ceo, syed balkhi. 4. join our youtube channel with nearly 154,000+ subscribers, wpbeginner’s youtube channel is the best wordpress channel on youtube (over 500+ free videos). we regularly upload new videos with useful how-to tutorials aimed at beginner level users. these videos are short, sweet, and easy to follow. you will also get the video transcript, a text version of the tutorial, and you can even ask questions in the comments. joining our youtube channel will help you stay up to date, brush up your wordpress skills, and discover new tools and plugins for your website. 5. allow wpbeginner push notifications another way to stay in touch with important content is to get push notifications from wpbeginner. allowing push notifications will let you receive browser notifications on your desktop or mobile devices. we only use this notification for important pieces of content (not every content). you can check the article right away or later at your convenience. if you have push notifications blocked on your browser, then you can enable them or selectively allow wpbeginner. here is how to turn on notifications in major browsers: google chrome for firefox microsoft edge 6. follow us on your favorite social media network we do our best to be present on all popular social media platforms, so we can help you learn wordpress on your favorite platform. you can follow us on twitter, facebook, linkedin, pinterest, and instagram. this way you can participate in our community discussions, see what new posts we have published, get in touch with us, and leave your comments and feedback. we like to hear from our users. in fact, many of our post ideas come from user requests made on twitter, facebook, and our other social channels. 7. got a wordpress question? here is how to find the answer at the top right corner of every page on wpbeginner, there is a search box. this search box is powered by google custom search. it is fast and highly accurate. simply type the question you wanted to ask us. there is a very good chance that we have already written about it. pro tip: to save time, some readers just google their wordpress questions with wpbeginner at the end of each search term, so google can show them the most accurate answer. 8. can’t find an answer? drop us a line or tweet to us if you have searched wpbeginner and didn’t find an answer to your question, then you can reach us using the contact form on our website. you can also tweet to us @wpbeginner. alternately, you can post your question on wpbeginner’s facebook group. this way you can share as much information as you like and get help not just from our experts but other users as well. we try our best to get back to you with an answer or point you in the right direction within 1 business day. we love hearing from our users because that’s what keeps us motivated and inspired. 9. need plugin and theme recommendations? many beginners are concerned about which plugins they should use on their wordpress site or how to find the perfect theme. visit wpbeginner’s showcase section where we hand-pick the best wordpress plugins and themes. here are some places to look at: must have wordpress plugins for all websites 40 useful tools to manage and grow your wordpress blog best simple wordpress themes best free wordpress blog themes want to know which wordpress plugins and tools we use on wpbeginner? check out wpbeginner’s blueprint where you will find all the tools and plugins we use to run wpbeginner. 10. lookup terms in our wordpress glossary (aka wordpress dictionary) as a beginner, it’s quite intimidating to not know what a specific technical lingo means. that’s exactly why we created our wordpress glossary. you can look up for wordpress and blogging terms in our wordpress glossary section. we have organized the most commonly used terms in alphabetical order with easy to understand descriptions for each term. 11. get the best wordpress deals and coupons as the largest wordpress resource site, we have reached out to top wordpress companies for exclusive discounts and deals for our users. in wpbeginner’s deals section, you’ll find excellent wordpress hosting, theme, and plugin coupons. we have also included special offers from most of the tools and services that we use ourselves to grow our business. all these deals will help you grow your business online with much less effort. 12. want to learn more about wpbeginner? are you curious about who runs wpbeginner? why it’s free and how it works? check out our about page. we started out as a small blog to help our clients learn how to use wordpress. since then wpbeginner has grown into becoming one of the largest free wordpress resource site for beginners. you may also want to check out the personal website of our founder and ceo, syed balkhi. you can find him on twitter as well as instagram. 13. what else we do? wpbeginner blog is managed by awesome motive inc, the management company behind many other premium wordpress plugins and tools. if you like our free tutorials, then please support us by using our premium plugins: optinmonster – helps you get more email subscribers. wpforms – best wordpress contact form and survey plugin. monsterinsights – #1 wordpress analytics plugin (trusted by 2 million websites). rafflepress – wordpress giveaway and contest plugin to help you grow your website traffic. wp mail smtp – fixes the wordpress not sending email issues. seedprod – best wordpress coming soon and maintenance mode plugin. trustpulse – helps you boost conversions with honest social proof notifications. we hope this article helped you learn how you can make the most out of wpbeginner’s free wordpress resources. you may also want to take a look at how to learn wordpress in a week or less. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 494 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 2 commentsleave a reply shoshannah says: aug 2, 2015 at 9:30 am what plugin is best to make sure each post is automatically updated on our facebook page reply wpbeginner support says: aug 2, 2015 at 10:17 pm see how to schedule wordpress posts for social media with bufferapp. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) bluehost coupon get over 63% off on bluehost packages and a free domain of your choice. weglot coupon get 15% off on weglot multilingual plugin for wordpress. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.