wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » plugins » how to add recipes in wordpress with seo friendly formatting how to add recipes in wordpress with seo friendly formatting last updated on september 2nd, 2014 by editorial staff 44 shares share tweet share pin we have seen an increase in the number of food blogs and restaurant websites that use wordpress. to keep up with the increasing demand, more and more wordpress restaurant themes and food focused themes are coming out. if you are a food blogger, restaurant, or a personal blogger who wants to share recipes on the wordpress site, then you are in the right place. in this article, we will show you how to add recipes in wordpress with seo friendly formatting. benefits of seo friendly recipe formatting? each day millions of people search the web for recipes. google decided to improve their recipe search to help people find the best recipes. they are using something called schema microdata formatting. yes that sounds geeky, but we will make it super easy for you. you won’t have to touch a single line of code, and everything will work automagically. we promise. below is how the seo friendly recipes look in search: video tutorial subscribe to wpbeginner if you don’t like the video or need more instructions, then continue reading. adding recipes in wordpress first thing you need to do is to install and activate the easy recipe plugin. we are using this plugin because it is free and works great. easy recipe plugin makes it easy for you to enter, format, and print recipes. on top of all that, it supports schema microformats to make your recipes seo friendly. once you activate the plugin, it will add an easy recipe menu item in your wordpress admin menu. clicking on the icon will take you to easy recipe configuration page. review the configuration settings and change them according to your needs. most of the settings are quite self-explanatory. once you are satisfied, save the settings. now you are ready to publish recipes. in order to add recipes to your posts, go to posts » add new. in the visual editor, you should see an easy recipe’s icon along with other formatting buttons. once you click on that button, it will open easy recipe’s add a recipe toolbox. this recipe wizard allows you to enter your recipe with ingredients, instructions, nutrition information, etc. you can also enter your recipe in plain text format. if it has separate lines for ingredients and instructions, then the plugin will automatically detect those. once you are done, press the add recipe button. as soon as you do that, your recipe will be added to the editor. your recipe will follow the display style that you selected under easy recipes » display styles. easy recipe comes with 8 display styles that you can use to match your theme’s styling. once you have published your recipe, you can test the goole view by using the google rich snippet preview tool. simply provide the url of your recipe post. easy recipe also adds a google rich snippet preview button in your post editor when you publish a post. you can also use this button to check how your recipe will appear in search results. note: google doesn’t always show the recipe formatting to everyone. as long as you can see the recipes in the rich snippet preview tool, then the job on your end is done. now it’s upto google to decide whether they want to show the rich snippets or not. we hope that those of you who like to share your culinary skills on your blogs would find this article useful. how do you add recipes on your wordpress site? let us know by leaving a comment below. 44 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 9 commentsleave a reply jenn says: oct 21, 2016 at 2:20 pm we’re looking for an alternative to easyrecipe because it’s no longer working, since we updated to the latest version of wp 4.6.1. i’ve heard rumblings that the developer quit supporting easyrecipe. any suggestions on an alternative? reply yemek tarifleri says: sep 5, 2013 at 5:41 pm thanks. it is very useful for me. reply mattia says: aug 31, 2013 at 10:50 am hi, thanks. do you also know some professional (pay) plugin, apart from this one? i find all the alerts and the structure of this plugin not very clean… and sometimes a bit annoying! reply editorial staff says: sep 3, 2013 at 3:26 pm recipress is another one. reply deepali jain says: aug 8, 2013 at 7:47 pm thanks syed. i use your tuts quite a lot. i find them much easier to follow and understand than others. i use ziplist recipe plugin. test tool shows rich snippets for recipes which i am entering with ziplist. this takes care of new recipes. how to add rich snippets or make old recipes seo friendly? i’ve roughly 90 old recipe posts which i would like to update. all help will be appreciated. reply editorial staff says: aug 11, 2013 at 12:03 pm go back and edit each old recipe one by one. reply chrissy says: jul 2, 2013 at 4:21 pm thanks for this post. working on my recipe blog and this will come in handy! you guys are awesome thank you ! reply randall says: jul 2, 2013 at 2:29 am nice tut, thanks. reply noah says: jul 1, 2013 at 11:09 am i usually post them directly in my wordpress text editor! thanks a lot for this tutorial, i’ll sure use it. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) wp compress coupon get 30% off on wp compress wordpress image optimization service. dreamhost coupon get up to 63% off on dreamhost and get a free domain too. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.