wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how to do lead generation in wordpress like a pro how to do lead generation in wordpress like a pro last updated on january 3rd, 2017 by editorial staff 567 shares share tweet share pin do you want to generate leads and increase sales from your website? lead generation should be a top priority for all businesses because at the end of the day, you want to convert your website visitors into subscribers and customers. in this article, we will show you how to do lead generation in wordpress like a pro. since this is a lengthy article we decided to add a table of contents for easy navigation. what is lead generation? getting started with lead generation in wordpress lead generation in wordpress using comments lead generation using contact form in wordpress lead generation using popups and dynamic optin forms creating and using lead magnets in wordpress optimizing your lead generation campaigns what is lead generation? lead generation is a method to generate consumer interest or inquiry into products or services of a business. studies prove that more than 75% of users visiting your website from search engines will never see it again. lead generation allows you to capture those users by opening a communication channel between your site and the user. this communication channel could be asking them to like your page on facebook, follow you on twitter, or join your email list. email is the most commonly captured lead. simply because it is undeniably the most cost effective and efficient marketing tool at your disposal. see our article on why building your email list is so important today. once you get a user to perform an action that opens a communication channel, you can send them special offers, updates, or even freebies to bring them back. who should start generating leads? whether you are a blogger, small or large business, or a hobbyist, you need to do lead generation. basically if you care about growing your audience base, then you should start generating leads. many successful online marketers and bloggers will tell you that the biggest mistake they made was not starting an email list to capture leads earlier. when should i start lead generation? lead generation takes time and every moment you are not doing it you are losing potential customers. you should start your lead generation efforts right away. even if you are just starting out and not even open for business yet. having said that, let’s take a look at how to get started with lead generation in wordpress. getting started with lead generation in wordpress first, you will need a self-hosted wordpress.org website. if you don’t already have a wordpress site, then take a look at our step by step guide on how to start a wordpress blog. after that you need to sign up with an email marketing service provider. these companies specialize in sending mass emails with an easy to use interface. we recommend using constant contact or aweber. you will also need optinmonster, the best lead generation software available in the market. this is the lead generation plugin that we use here on wpbeginner. aside from that, we will be covering several other wordpress lead generation plugins along the way to help you convert website visitors into customers. lead generation in wordpress using comments comments are the easiest way to build user engagement. however, default wordpress comment system is not very efficient in bringing back the users who leave comments. let’s take a look at how you can capture leads from comment forms on your wordpress site. capture leads by adding comment redirect by default, when a user submits comment on your website they get to see the same page again. there is nothing new on that page except for the preview of their own comment. you can convert these visitors into subscribers by redirecting them to a different page on your wordpress site after they submit a comment. this could be a thank you page, special offer page, etc. here is how to redirect users after comment submission in wordpress. first, you need to install and activate the yoast comment hacks plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to visit settings » comment hacks page and click on ‘comment redirect’ tab. select the page where you want to send first time commenters and then click on the save changes button. now all first time commenters on your wordpress site will be redirected to your selected page. you can optimize this page by adding an email signup form, offer a special discount, or anything else you want. add comment subscription option in wordpress as we mentioned earlier, wordpress does not send any notifications to users after they leave a comment. the user will have to manually come back to your site to see if someone replied to their comment. adding comment subscription option will allow users to get notified about new comments. it will also increase your pageviews, return visitors, and brand recognition. most importantly, this will give you more opportunities to convert those visitors into subscribers. here is how you can easily add comment subscription option to your wordpress site. first, you need to install and activate the subscribe to comments reloaded plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to visit settings » subscribe to comments to configure the plugin settings. the default settings should work for most websites. however, you can review the options and make changes if necessary. don’t forget to click on the save changes button to store your settings. for more detailed instructions see our guide on how to allow users to subscribe to comments in wordpress. lead generation using contact form in wordpress contact forms are the most common way to generate leads in wordpress. however, most contact form plugins for wordpress are either too difficult to use or do not integrate with your email service provider. this is where wpforms comes in. it is the most beginner friendly contact form plugin for wordpress. you can easily create beautiful contact forms and seamlessly integrates with email service providers like mailchimp, aweber, campaign monitor, and getresponse. create lead generation forms in wordpress wpforms lite is a free wordpress contact form plugin that you can use to create any type of lead generation form in wordpress. whether you want a simple contact form, request a quote form, or another inquiry form, you can easily create it with the drag & drop form builder. for more details, follow our step by step guide on how to create a contact form in wordpress. redirect users after form submission another technique that you can use to boost sales is adding a redirect page upon a successful form submission. wpforms allows you to easily redirect users to any page after they have submitted a form using the smart form confirmation feature. once you have created your form with the drag & drop form builder, click on the settings tab and then click on confirmation. wpforms allows you to choose three type of confirmations. you can simply show a message, redirect users to a wordpress page, or to any other url. you can create a separate page on your wordpress site with special offers, optin form, or show them any content that will help you convert the visitor into a customer. after you’re done with the settings, make sure to save and exit the form builder. add newsletter signup option to your forms while contact forms are great for collecting inbound leads, you can also use it to build your email newsletter. since the user is already entering their email address in the form, you can automatically sign them up for your newsletter with their consent. wpforms pro plugin comes with marketing integrations that allows you to connect your lead generation forms with all popular email marketing services. for the sake of this article, we will be using the mailchimp integration to automatically add users to our mailchimp email list once they submit a contact form. once you have installed wpforms pro, you need to visit wpforms » addons page. here you will find addons for different email service providers. go ahead and click on the install addon button next to mailchimp addon. wpforms will install the mailchimp addon. you will need to click on the activate button to start using the addon. the next step is to connect wpforms to your mailchimp account. visit wpforms » settings page and then click on ‘integrations’ tab. you will see mailchimp listed as an integration. clicking on it will allow you to enter your mailchimp api key and a nickname for this account. you can get your api key from your account on mailchimp website. click on connect to mailchimp button to continue. wpforms will now connect to your mailchimp account. you are now ready to add email optin fields to your contact form. headover to wpforms » add new page. this will launch wpforms form builder interface. first you need to provide a title for your contact form and then select ‘simple contact form’ from the list of available templates. wpforms will now create a simple contact form for you. you can edit the fields by clicking on them. you can also add new fields by clicking on them in the left column. now, you need to click on the ‘checkboxes’ field to add a newsletter signup checkbox. clicking on the field will show you its settings. your form is almost ready. now you just need to connect the form fields to your email list. click on ‘marketing’ tab and then click on mailchimp. create a new connection and provide it a name. wpforms will now load your mailchimp email list and the form fields you just created. map the name and email address fields to the appropriate fields in your contact form. next, you need to check the box next to ‘enable conditional logic’ option. this allows you to only add users who opt-in to join your email list. this is very important. while you can easily add all users to your email list, the ones who opt-in are a better quality lead. go ahead and select the newsletter optin field you added as checkbox. don’t forget to save your form and exit the form builder. contact forms are the most common way to boost lead generation in wordpress, but you can take it even further with personalized optin forms. lead generation using popups and dynamic optin forms adding a plain looking email subscription box to your sidebar is not the only way to capture leads. in most cases, users don’t even notice those forms because they blend in. this is where optinmonster comes in. it allows you to create and a/b test high-converting optin forms for your wordpress site without hiring a developer. we use it on wpbeginner and have increased our conversions by over 600%. optinmonster allows you personalize your optins based on user behavior, so you can show them the most targeted offer at the best time. for example, you can show customized optin forms for: different sections, pages, or blog categories based on user’s physical location (city or country) based on user’s previous interactions with your website based on where the visitor is coming from (google, facebook, etc) based on their device (mobile, tablet, desktop) based on their activity such as time on page, time on site, scroll-depth, mouse movements, etc. and more… combined with these targeting options, dynamic optin forms are the most powerful tool in any marketer’s toolbox. exit-intent lightbox popup for email signups optinmonster is a pioneer in exit-intent technology. this allows you to detect user’s mouse movement and show them a popup at the precise moment they’re about to leave. this is particularly helpful in giving users one last chance before they leave your website. it is also less annoying because the popup doesn’t appear until a user decides to leave the page. exit popups are proven to work that’s why all industry leaders are using it. social media examiner added over 250,000 new email subscribers using exit popups from optinmonster. michael hyatt doubled his subscription rate with exit popups. search engine journal increased their conversions by 240% (source). aside from email signups, you can also use lightbox popups to grow your facebook page or even increase your twitter following. boost conversions with fullscreen welcome gates fullscreen optins also known as welcome-gate or interstitial popups, allow you to display a fullscreen overlay on your content. you can combine it with optinmonster’s exit-intent or content-lock features to make certain pages on your website a lead-magnet. fullscreen is one of the most sought after advertising spot because it converts extremely well. that’s why sites like forbes, inc and others use it. instead of showing other people’s ad, you can use it for lead generation purposes on your website. capturing leads using floating bars floating bars are a particularly effective dynamic optin form that works really well. it adds a sticky floating bar at top or bottom of your website. the bar remains visible as the users scroll down your website. it does not stops users from viewing your content, and users can easily close or hide it. slide-in or scroll triggered optins to grab user attention slide-in or scroll boxes appear on your page when a user scrolls down. the animation grabs user attention and makes the optin more noticeable than a traditional optin. below is an example of how ithemes is using it on their website: creating and using lead magnets in wordpress lead magnets are special offers used as an incentive for performing an action. this special offer could be an exclusive download, an ebook, a helpful resource, discount coupon, etc. lead magnets work extremely well because they offer users something valuable in return, they are quick and easy, and users don’t have to pay for them. need ideas? see this list of 69 highly effective lead magnet ideas to grow your email list optinmonster comes with built-in support to easily offer lead magnets and deliver them upon success. if you are a blogger, then your lead magnet could also be a content upgrade. a content upgrade simply offers users additional useful content as a bonus for performing an action. see our article on how to add content upgrades in wordpress for detailed instructions and a live example. optimizing your wordpress lead generation campaigns lead generation is an on-going effort. you will need to monitor what is working well for your website and how you can improve it. here are a few tips that will help you optimize your lead generation efforts. instead of guess work, use a/b testing to improve your optins use multiple optins to maximize your efforts experiment with different colors, images, videos, etc. create and use multiple lead magnets to boost leads do not ruin user experience by annoying users keep looking for new creative ideas to generate more leads that’s all for now. we hope this article helped you learn how to do lead generation in wordpress. you may also want to see our ultimate guide to boost wordpress speed and performance. note: optinmonster is part of the wpbeginner family of premium wordpress plugins. we built it for our own use and publicly launched it in 2013 because of all the user requests. today, it is the most popular lead generation software in the market. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 567 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to start your own podcast (step by step) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 15 commentsleave a reply jakson says: jul 23, 2019 at 2:36 pm online marketing is really good for generation leads. also social media is one of the important factor for generation leads. thanks for sharing nice information. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 24, 2019 at 10:02 am glad you like our content reply jason jones says: sep 11, 2018 at 7:12 am a very useful article got useful and informative facts through the article. still, the confusion and question arise whether email marketing or lead generation will be more beneficial to the consumer in getting the leads. thanks, jason reply nate says: feb 5, 2019 at 11:38 am email marketing is what you’re able to do, based on your successful lead gen efforts. a lead can only be marketed to via email once they’ve opted in. i don’t think it’s a matter of one or the other, rather, first lead gen, then email marketing (lead nurturing). reply luis castellon says: mar 2, 2018 at 5:40 am what about push notifications? reply sharon simcox says: dec 28, 2017 at 3:24 am your advice on automatically signing people up to email lists when completing a form on a website is now bad advice according to the gdpr (general data protection regulation) legislation which is currently in place and deadline for compliance in the uk is may 2018. data subjects – the person completing the form – must give explicit permission for their email address to be marketed to (must give explicit permission for each use you would want to use it for). reply wpbeginner support says: dec 28, 2017 at 5:57 am hi sharon, the user will still have to explicitly give consent to join the email list. they can do so by checking the box that says, yes sign me up for your email list, or you can redirect them to a page showing an email newsletter signup form. in either case, users will not be subscribed to email list without giving explicit consent. hope this helps for more details, you may also want to see our article on how to use contact form to grow your email list. reply mandar says: jan 23, 2017 at 5:15 am can we import the html site on wordpress reply ankit says: jan 10, 2017 at 10:07 am very great post. lead generation is very important as someone is willing to monetize his blog. it’s the better way to get repeated visitors and convert them into customers. i like this and btw in-depth guide for anyone who wants to start money blogging or monetizing his online platform. very nice. reply karl dumas says: jan 10, 2017 at 9:51 am great article. regarding google’s position on penalizing websites that use popup software on mobile devices beginning in january, what do you have to say about this topic? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 12, 2017 at 1:55 am hi karl, please take a look at this article google’s mobile popup penalty rule – explained in plain english! reply olaf mueller says: jan 10, 2017 at 6:37 am thanks, again a multitude of ine ideas. i have some doubts though on coming up with an email opt-in popup or a like button too soon. the visitor likes to have a look-see for a while, take in what’s being offered. and then should be asked for his/her opinion. if you do it too quick and too eagerly it becomes annoying and the visitor moves on without engagement. reply leo pirela says: jan 4, 2017 at 6:20 am great post once again! i work with inbound marketing and growth driven design and as you know that is all about generating leads. how much do you think running all these plugins on a monthly basis will cost? it has been difficult to find a solution other than hubspot where everything is one platform. however 80% of my users are only willing to use wordpress. thanks for sharing this great content. leo reply wpbeginner support says: jan 4, 2017 at 8:14 pm hi leo, the costs depend on which email service provider you choose, which plan you choose for each plugins, etc. in the long run it will still be very cost effective. reply frank says: jan 3, 2017 at 5:53 am thanks for sharing this information. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) nextiva coupon get the lowest possible price on the best voip and business phone service. seedprod coupon get 20% off on seedprod coming soon page plugin for wordpress. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.