services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing bluleadz inbound marketing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply close services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply marketing sales service leadership hubspot subscribe subscribe to our blog stay up to date with the latest marketing, sales, and service tips. how to optimize a blog in hubspot [vlog] casey crane | january 19, 2018 | 1 min read if you're a new hubspot user, navigating the blog tool may seem like information overload. hubspot blog tool is built out a bit differently than similar tools on other platforms. namely, it integrates with everything else in the crm; ctas, campaigns, lists and other automated marketing tools. to make things a little easier, in this video walkthrough i provide a step-by-step process on creating a hubspot blog post and optimizing existing blog posts. everything to consider when optimizing a blog post when optimizing a business blog post on hubspot, there are more than a few bases to cover before taking the post live. these include: title and post url campaign selected keywords and tags inbound and external hyperlinks author meta description featured images and media scheduling make sure all of these elements are addressed and follow the steps in the video tutorial above, and you'll see improvements in your company's blog posts in no time. leave a comment casey crane i'm a hard working, driven, and focused communicator with experience in writing, editing, media relations, photojournalism, marketing, and customer service. i have a keen eye for detail and always am looking for new ways to improve myself personally and professionally. more insights data deduplication: how to manage duplicate contacts in hubspot hubspot vs. zoho: how to choose the best option for your business the very best crm systems for 2020 (reviewed & rated) subscribe to our blog & get notified on the latest trends that impact your business. no, i dont want to get your awesome content. close popup. services marketing design sales pricing company about us customer testimonials careers contact resources blog resources the inbound glossary are you lost? (866) 995-8720 3030 n. rocky point dr. w. suite 600 tampa, florida 33607 facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube messenger © 2020 bluleadz, all rights reserved. privacy policy.