home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book creating author websites by kimberley grabas here’s the truth: every writer needs to know how to build a writer platform. are you a writer who is overwhelmed by the rapidly changing industry? the more adventurous among you are ready for the challenge of building a writer platform and growing your community – but have absolutely no idea where to start. some of you find it slightly horrifying that you are required to write and hock your wares, but are prepared to do the work, however distasteful it is. and a few of you are gnashing your teeth, insisting it was much better in the “good ol’ days” when writers were expected to write – and someone else handled the smarmy promotional bits. looking around, you feel a bit deflated. you see authors with several books out, who have all manner of credentials to their name, and platforms as big as those of a rockstar. how can a newbie writer compete? you have a huge advantage over other writers right now, at this very moment, you have a massive lead over many others, whether they are just starting out, or have already been published. do you know what it is? timing. the fact that you are aware of the importance of a platform before you’ve even written your first book is big. and if you actually start working on your platform now, growing your audience and influence as you write – before the book deal, before the launch– your “competition” becomes irrelevant. obscurity is the disease, your author website is the cure your biggest problem is not other writers or other comparable books in your genre; it’s obscurity. people can’t read a book they’ve never heard of. people won’t buy a book they don’t know exists. this problem isn’t exclusive to writers. anybody with something to share – a product, an idea, a message – needs to find a way to get it in front of the people who care. how you do that varies, but all your actions taken together form the act of building a platform. your writer platform, in essence, is the variety of ways you use to connect to – and engage with – the ideal readership that is receptive to your work. it’s also the amount of influence you wield, the level of visibility and authority you’ve gained, and the depth of your connection with your readers. rather than thinking of your platform as a stage from which you talk at your audience, think of your platform as a bridge – a way to connect or close the gap between you and your fans. a way to talk with them. [tweet this idea: [tweet_dis]your platform is not a stage; it’s a bridge that connects you to your readers.[/tweet_dis]] by starting early, you give yourself the time to develop an authentic two-way connection with your growing fan base. you also give yourself the opportunity to establish a strong foundation on which to build your writing career. with no time and nothing to offer, how can i build my platform? let’s address your specific concerns. #1. no time starting something new always requires more time, more energy and more upfront effort than doing the same old thing. anybody who has learned to drive a car, started a new job, or had a baby has experienced this. so be prepared to accept and deal with the natural overwhelm and time expenditure that comes with establishing your new writing career. your work is worth it. commit to it. give it the time in your schedule that it deserves. what isn’t a priority doesn’t get done, so if you expect results, make sure you’re allotting time for the actions that will get you there. remember, your job is two-fold: create something brilliant, and then get it into the hands of the people who can recognize its brilliance. just as you wouldn’t plan to open a restaurant without a chef, don’t write a book without a plan to help people read it. get ready to step outside your comfort zone and live there for a while. it will get easier, as most things do, but you’ll need to put in the time and effort first. stop treating your writing like a side gig or it will remain so. share just how big your goals are. don’t keep them a secret. write them out, tell your family, friends and peers. you might be surprised at the support you get when they see your commitment. the bottom line is: no time equals no career. it’s really that simple. #2. no credentials everybody has to start somewhere. as with your writing, it’s only by doing that you get better, so instead of worrying about proving your credibility, focus on earning credibility by providing useful content to your audience. [tweet this idea: [tweet_dis]it’s not about proving your credibility, it’s about earning it.[/tweet_dis]] do this by getting to know your target audience inside and out. discover what they need, want and value. what are their interests? who are they influenced by? skip this step, and your job becomes much more difficult. nail it, and you’ll never be at a loss for interesting, valuable content. by providing content that your readers crave, you get people to buy into “brand you.” your early supporters – those who see the diamond in the rough – often become invested (and sometimes pivotal) in your future success. you have value, and what you do matters. practice selling your value now – to yourself and to others. know what you can bring to the table, and own it. start building relationships with other writers, bloggers and industry influencers. add to the conversations on their blogs and on the social media platforms they’re active on. share or review their work when appropriate. take a minute to reach out and let them know you’re a fan of the work they’re doing. people will notice. your platform is where you can start building the relationships, the authority, the testimonials and even the “numbers” that endorse the quality of your work. so get started. #3. no book “how do i build a writer platform when i don’t even have a book to sell yet?” when writers ask me this question, i know i haven’t made something über clear: your platform is about connection, not selling. selling more books, amplifying your message, extending your reach and influence – these are all positive, natural “consequences” of creating a strong platform, but it’s the connection that is the real asset. building relationships over time, earning trust and showing genuine interest in your community is what allows you to influence your audience’s actions (to purchase your book, to share your posts, to spread your ideas, and so on). that’s why starting early is so important: trust can’t be rushed or expedited. it is also why not having a book published yet is somewhat irrelevant. you need to be absolutely clear on what it is you have to share (define your author brand) and identify the group that will benefit from it the most (your ideal audience). another plus to creating this targeted community is that you can get valuable feedback and insights on your projects before you publish or present them to an agent. you can gauge reader interest, gather feedback on works in progress, and ask questions to ensure you “get” your reader. should you incorporate every idea and bit of feedback into your writing? nope. it’s your work, you decide. but learning what your readers want, the words they use to ask for it, and even where they go to find it, will make marketing your book – when you do publish – infinitely easier. time to get started it should be clear by now that all you need to build a writer platform is commitment, patience and perseverance. and since there is a huge advantage in starting early, there’s no better time than now to take the plunge. here’s how to start: 1. know yourself and know your audience. define your author brand. do the research to identify your ideal reader. who exactly are you trying to reach? 2. set up your author website and start building your email list. for more on how to do this, check out mary jaksch’s course on how to kickstart your blog. 3. get social on social media. determine where your target audience hangs out online, and be there. if the horror of having to “sell” your own work hasn’t abated, here’s what you need to do: reframe your thoughts on platform, marketing and self-promotion. at the core, you are simply finding ways to engage with people who are most inclined to love your work. it only gets icky when the effort and engagement isn’t genuine, so focus on relationships, not selling. when you’re square with this, follow the advice above on getting started. over to you if you’re still reading, but unconvinced that things are better now than they were in the “old days,” here’s my take: like it or not, the industry has changed. writers can choose to capitalize on these changes, and learn to approach their careers from both the creative and business sides. or they can continue to bemoan their circumstances and get left behind. which path will you choose? (personally, i’ll take too much responsibility over too little control any day of the week.) so don’t wait for perfect. don’t wait for more time, more credentials or until your book is published. don’t get lost in obscurity. seize the advantage that starting early affords. people deserve to experience the work that you create. what has been your experience with building your writer platform? share your tips and challenges in the comments! tweet371 pin1k share180 2k shares related posts creating author websites: the definitive guide by mary jaksch have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? by mary jaksch about the author kimberley grabas kimberley grabas is a writer and the founder of yourwriterplatform.com, where she provides writers with the resources, tools and inspiration they need to build their platform, engage their fans and sell more books. download her free ebook, the quick start guide to building your writer platform. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >