subscribe news features windows smart home explore windows mac iphone android smarthome office security linux news features review geek lifesavvy about us contact us geek talk x popular searches windows 10 speed up pc chromecast windows mac iphone android smarthome office security linux news features review geek lifesavvy about us contact us geek talk x the best tech newsletter anywhere join 250,000 subscribers and get a daily digest of news, geek trivia, and our feature articles. skip to content how long can coronavirus live on a smartphone? chris hoffman | 11h ago smartphones are germ magnets at the best of times. with the spread of the novel coronavirus, they’re a potential vector for infection. the virus can potentially live on your phone’s screen for days.... 11 tips for working from home on a mac khamosh pathak | 1d ago across the globe, companies have asked their employees to work from home. if this is your first time working remotely on your mac, these tips can help you boost your productivity and get into the groove.... how to clean and disinfect all your gadgets tim brookes | 2d ago whether you want to protect against covid-19 or just give all your gadgets a deep-clean while you’re stuck at home, now’s the ideal time! here’s how you can safely clean your tech gadgets, without damaging a... how to open the registry editor on windows 10 brady gavin 6h ago how to quickly search within settings on an iphone or ipad benj edwards 7h ago can you get in-stock alerts from stores? not important ones. joel cornell 8h ago how to customize google forms with themes, images, and fonts vann vicente 9h ago ↪ from review geek the 5 best alternatives to the official ipad keyboard andrew heinzman 9h ago how to use trackpad gestures on your ipad khamosh pathak 9h ago how to use linux’s screen command dave mckay 10h ago ↪ from cloudsavvy it how to set up a personal gitlab server anthony heddings 10h ago ↪ from review geek our favorite binge-worthy tv shows available for streaming review geek team 11h ago did you know? jim carrey’s chipped tooth in dumb & dumber isn’t a theatrical effect; carrey had the cap covering his actual chipped tooth removed for the filming. geek trivia what invention created a mass movement towards completely indoor pet cats? ↪ from cloudsavvy it how do you actually use regex? anthony heddings 1d ago ↪ from cloudsavvy it how to manage open file handles with powershell adam bertram 1d ago how to install powershell 7 on windows 10 brady gavin 1d ago everything you need to know about the new ipad mouse and trackpad cursor apple has finally brought a cursor to the ipad, but not in the traditional sense. it’s a small, translucent gray circle that morphs into buttons and disappears when you don’t need it. here’s everything you n... khamosh pathak 1d ago ↪ from cloudsavvy it how to monitor a windows folder for new files and take action adam bertram 1d ago how to get started in “animal crossing: new horizons” joshalynne finch 1d ago how to factory reset windows 10 marshall gunnell 1d ago how to enable push to talk on steam joel cornell 1d ago how to create an invisible folder on your windows 10 desktop have you ever wanted to hide files right under someone’s nose? with this digital parlor trick, you can hide a folder in plain sight on your windows 10 desktop. benj edwards 1d ago ↪ from review geek for most people, the new xbox and playstation are better than a gaming pc andrew heinzman 1d ago 11 tips for working from home on a mac across the globe, companies have asked their employees to work from home. if this is your first time working remotely on your mac, these tips can help you boost your productivity and get into the groove.... khamosh pathak 1d ago ↪ from lifesavvy the 11 most disgusting everyday surfaces you touch all the time elyse hauser 2d ago ↪ from lifesavvy never used a grocery delivery service? these are our favorites emilee unterkoefler 2d ago ↪ from review geek slow android phone? here's what we recommend andrew heinzman 2d ago more articles › best of how-to geek 10 quick ways to speed up a slow mac how to choose the best vpn service for your needs what’s the best way to back up my computer? how to fax a document from your smartphone how to migrate all your data from chrome to firefox what’s the best antivirus for windows 10? (is windows defender good enough?) how to find and remove duplicate files on windows 10 ways to free up disk space on your mac hard drive how-to geek is where you turn when you want experts to explain technology. since we launched in 2006, our articles have been read more than 1 billion times. want to know more? facebook twitter linkedin the best tech newsletter anywhere about us contact us join our team advertising privacy policy terms of use © 2020 lifesavvy media. all rights reserved