engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login how well did the xperia 1’s super tall screen work for users? xiaomi's mi 10 lite offers 5g for €349 the morning after: reviewing the ipad pro (2020) latest in gear ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 20m ago view the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here 2h ago view google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks 1h ago view this week's best deals: sony headphones, surface pro 7 and more 2h ago view image credit: huawei made its own siri rival called celia don't mention the 'b' word. mat smith, @thatmatsmith 03.26.20 comments 780 shares share tweet share sponsored links mat smith, engadget given there's no google assistant on huawei's latest devices, including the p40 series, the company has revealed its very own voice assistant called celia. she/it/they will understand commands in english, french and spanish and will behave an awful lot like siri did at launch, namely some pretty basic voice interactions with core phone features. think: weather updates, texts and phone call requests. it'll also set reminders, interact with your calendar and even translate. huawei is hoping its attempts go better than samsung's own bixby voice assistant. huawei first mentioned celia last year, pitched as the global version of its chinese-speaking voice assistant called xiaoyi. like its predecessor, celia will also be able to use huawei devices' ai lens to detect objects and presumably access more information on said objects. when i tried to summon celia on a p40 pro sample, apple's siri on my homepod speaker thought i was talking to it -- that's... not great. (and i'm not the only one.) the translation features worked as advertised though, and i'll be playing with it more as i put huawei's newest phones through their paces. celia will appear on huawei devices through a later ota update, when emui 10.1 officially lands alongside the p40 phone series on april 7th. in this article: celia, gear, google assistant, huawei, huawei p40, mobile, p40, p40 pro, siri, voice assistant, xiaoyi all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments 780 shares share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr