english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get hubspot free home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in invoice template generator fill in your business details in the invoice template below to create a professional invoice for your customers. please visit our desktop website for the full invoice generator experience or email to myself for later how to use the free invoice template generator use this free invoice generator to create and download professional invoices to send to your customers. start by filling in your business details in the invoice template below to populate the statement. you can add additional line items by clicking the “+ add more” button. when you’re done with the details, click on the tools icon to the left to customize your color scheme. when complete, click the “download now” button to download the invoice pdf. once you’ve downloaded the invoice, send it to your customers via email or print it and mail it directly. looking for more blank invoice templates to choose from? we’ve created 10 free invoice templates for microsoft word to meet all of your invoicing needs. simply fill out the form below to access the templates. the templates are fully editable and can be downloaded as a pdf to send off to your customers. free download free invoice templates tell us a little about yourself below to gain access today: invoice faqs what is an invoice? an invoice, or sales invoices, is a billing document issued by a seller to a customer. the document typically: details the contact and billing information quantifies an itemized list of goods or services sold provides a clear total for the purchase defines any discounts or specific payment terms contains a unique invoice number and date what is an invoice number? an invoice number is a unique number that you assign to each new invoice you create. these numbers are then used to organize and track each invoice you send. your invoice numbers should be assigned in sequential order. for example, your very first invoice might be “invoice no. 1,” followed by “invoice no. 2,” and so on. invoice numbers aren’t specific to one customer, so you should keep a running total across all of the invoices you send. that being said, some businesses choose to adapt their numbering system to meet their individual needs. this might mean that you choose to incorporate the date into your invoice number for filing purposes, like this: 20172711-001. how to make an invoice include the word "invoice." assign a unique invoice number and date. provide your business name and contact information. list out the details of the product(s) or service(s) you provided -- include quantity, rates, hours, etc. provide the name and contact information of the customer. highlight the subtotal. specify any payment details or a due date if necessary. while your invoice details will change slightly depending on whether you are providing a service or a product (e.g., billable hours and rate vs. quantity and cost), the above guidelines serve as best practices for creating a professional invoice. how to send an invoice when it comes to actually sending your invoice off to the customer, you have a couple of options: send the invoice electronically via email or website. send the invoice via postal mail. when sending an invoice electronically, you may send it through email or directly from your accounting or invoicing software. for many businesses, this is a preferred sending method, as it allows you to deliver invoices to a customer in real time. invoices that are sent electronically are often paid electronically -- or, less commonly, paid via mail. when sending an invoice by postal mail, make sure that you consider the time it will take for your invoice to arrive. while this tends to be the slower of the two options, many businesses still send invoices via postal mail to meet the needs and demands of their specific audiences. what’s the difference between a bill and an invoice? the term “invoice” is often adopted in business environments to define a payment request for goods or services purchased by a specific customer. once the customer receives the invoice, they will typically refer to it as a bill that they now owe to the seller. that being said, it’s not uncommon for the two terms to be used interchangeably, as they both refer to an itemized statement of payment owed to a seller by a buyer. what are the most popular types of invoices? standard invoice shipping invoice service invoice pro-forma invoice commercial invoice recurring invoice the standard invoice is the most common invoice type. the standard invoice includes all of the basic information needed to complete an invoice, including contact information for the buyer and seller, an invoice number, an invoice date, itemized purchases, and a clearly defined subtotal. the shipping invoice serves as a formal payment agreement for goods sold between a seller and a customer. for shipping invoices, information typically includes the cost and number of each item, the subtotal after shipping fees and taxes, the contact information of both parties, as well as an invoice date and number. the service invoice is often used by service businesses that bill customers based on hourly rates for services such as consultants, graphic designers, website developers, lawyers, auto repair technicians, and so on. on service invoices, the subtotal is a reflection of the billable hours invested. the pro-forma invoice can be best compared to a quote or estimation. the pro-forma invoice type is often used as a first step in negotiating a payment agreement and is not considered a true invoice, as it does not demand payment. the commercial invoice is used for customs in instances where goods are being exported across international borders. the commercial invoice contains many of the elements of a standard invoice, in addition to the manufacturing country of the goods, what the items are being used for, the harmonized system codes (if known), the number of packages and their total weight, and the reason for export. the recurring invoice typically contains a fixed price and is sent on a monthly basis for rented goods or services such as an apartment, business software, cell phone bills, and so on. recurring invoices will continue to be sent until the customer's contract or subscription expires. where can i find sample invoices for inspiration? while creating an invoice might not sound like a big branding opportunity, having a well-designed, professional invoice can make a big difference in the eye’s of your customer -- and help you get paid on time. before making any type of payment, customers want to ensure that they are doing business with a credible, trustworthy company. this means your invoices should be error-free with consistent branding and a clear, itemized list of goods or services. if you need help organizing all of the must-have information that comes on an invoice, download the free invoice templates above. disclaimer: these faqs include some information on legal issues surrounding invoicing, but legal information is not the same as legal advice -- applying the law to a specific circumstance. we’ve conducted research to better ensure that our information is accurate and useful, but we insist that you talk to a lawyer if you want professional assurance that our information, and your interpretation of it, is accurate. in a nutshell, you may not rely on this information as legal advice, nor as a recommendation or endorsement of any particular legal understanding, and you should instead see this info as for entertainment purposes only. increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2020 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy