english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact us contact support upgrade your account all numbers & locations log in get hubspot free home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in legal stuff talk legal to me legal for customers customer terms of service additional coverage terms u.s. government additional terms data processing agreement sub-processor page product privacy policy product disclosures product and services catalog acceptable use policy for partners app partner program agreement solutions partner program agreement marketing affiliate program agreement hubspot for startups partner agreement education partner agreement for developers hubspot developer terms hubspot developer policy acceptable use policy for everyone website terms of use privacy policy cookie policy other legal docs community terms of use directory terms of use hug program agreement back to legal stuff home hubspot privacy policy last modified: january 23, 2020 we at hubspot (hubspot, inc., hubspot ireland limited, and our affiliates listed on this page) are committed to protecting your privacy. this privacy policy applies to the information and data collected by hubspot as a controller, including the information collected on our websites (www.hubspot.com, www.hubspot.de, www.hubspot.fr, www.hubspot.es, www.hubspot.jp, br.hubspot.com, and www.inbound.com) or through other channels as described below. this privacy notice describes how we collect, receive, use, store, share, transfer, and process your personal information. it also describes your choices regarding use, as well as your rights of access and correction of your personal information. if you do not agree with the data practices described in this privacy policy, you should not use the websites. this privacy policy does not apply to the data hubspot processes on behalf of our customers (customer data) in our capacity as a processor. your use of the hubspot subscription service (the subscription service) as a customer of hubspot, including use of our associated mobile applications (mobile apps), is covered under the hubspot product privacy policy. we periodically update this privacy policy. we will post any privacy policy changes on this page and, if the changes are material, we will provide a more prominent notice by sending you an email notification, or if you subscribe to the subscription service, through the notification app in your hubspot portal. while we will notify you of any material changes to this privacy policy prior to the changes becoming effective, we encourage you to review this privacy policy periodically. we will also keep prior versions of this privacy policy in an archive for your review. if you have any questions about this privacy policy or our treatment of the information you provide us, please write to us by email at privacy@hubspot.com or by mail to hubspot, inc., 25 first street, 2nd floor, cambridge, ma 02141 usa, attn: privacy. what information we collect about you how we use information we collect how we share information we collect how we transfer information we collect internationally cookies and similar technologies how to access & control your personal data california privacy rights data protection officer 1. what information we collect about you our use of the subscription service we use our own subscription service to build webpages that people can visit to learn more about hubspot. information that we collect and manage using the subscription service for our own marketing belongs to us and is used, disclosed and protected according to this privacy policy. when you visit our websites you are free to explore the websites without providing any personal information about yourself. when you visit the websites or register for the subscription service, we request that you provide personal information about yourself, and we collect navigational information. "personal information" this refers to any information that you voluntarily submit to us and that identifies you personally, including contact information, such as your name, e-mail address, company name, address, phone number, and other information about yourself or your business. personal information can also include information about any transactions, both free and paid, that you enter into on the websites, and information about you that is available on the internet, such as from facebook, linkedin, twitter and google, or information that we acquire from service providers. personal information includes navigational information or payment information where such information can directly or indirectly identify an individual. navigational information refers to information about your computer and your visits to the websites such as your ip address, geographical location, browser type, referral source, length of visit and pages viewed. please see the "use of navigation information" section below. payment information includes information we collect and process from you when you subscribe to the subscription service, including credit card numbers and billing information, using third party pci-compliant service providers. except for this, we do not collect other sensitive information from you. "sensitive information" this refers to credit or debit card numbers, personal financial account information, social security numbers, passport numbers, driver's license numbers or similar personal identifiers, racial or ethnic origin, physical or mental health condition or information, or other employment, financial or health information. log files when you view content provided by us, we automatically collect information about your computer hardware and software. this information can include your ip address, browser type, domain names, internet service provider (isp), the files viewed on our site (e.g., html pages, graphics, etc.), operating system, clickstream data, access times and referring website addresses. this information is used by hubspot to provide general statistics regarding use of the websites. for these purposes, we do link this automatically-collected data to other personal information such as name, email address, address, and phone number. information we collect from third parties from time to time, we may receive personal information about you from third party sources including partners with which we offer co-branded services or engage in joint marketing activities, and sources such as social media websites. information about children the websites are not intended for or targeted at children under 16, and we do not knowingly or intentionally collect personal information about children under 16 if you believe that we have collected personal information about a child under 16, please contact us at privacy@hubspot.com, so that we may delete the information. 2. how we use information we collect compliance with our privacy policy we use the information we collect only in compliance with this privacy policy. customers who subscribe to our subscription services are obligated through our agreements with them to comply with this privacy policy. we never sell personal information we will never sell your personal information to any third party. use of personal information in addition to the uses identified elsewhere in this privacy policy, we may use your personal information to: improve your browsing experience by personalizing the websites and to improve the subscription service; send information or hubspot content to you which we think may be of interest to you by post, email, or other means and send you marketing communications relating to our business; promote use of our services to you and share promotional and information content with you in accordance with your communication preferences; provide other companies with statistical information about our users -- but this information will not be used to identify any individual user and will only be shared on an aggregate and de-identified basis; contact you about billing, account management, and other administrative matters; send information to you regarding changes to our customer terms of service, privacy policy (including the cookie policy), or other legal agreements; investigate and help prevent security issues and abuse; and meet legal requirements. we may, from time to time, contact you on behalf of external business partners about a particular offering that may be of interest to you. in those cases, we do not transfer your personal information to the third party. legal basis for processing personal information (eea visitors only) if you are a visitor located in the european economic area ("eea"), hubspot ireland limited is the data controller of your personal information. hubspot's data protection officer can be contacted at privacy@hubspot.com. our legal basis for collecting and using the personal information described above will depend on the personal information concerned and the specific context in which we collect it. however, we will normally collect personal information from you only where we have your consent to do so, where we need the personal information to perform a contract with you, or where the processing is in our legitimate interests and not overridden by your data protection interests or fundamental rights and freedoms. in some cases, we may also have a legal obligation to collect personal information from you. if we ask you to provide personal information to comply with a legal requirement or to perform a contract with you, we will make this clear at the relevant time and advise you whether the provision of your personal information is mandatory or not (as well as of the possible consequences if you do not provide your personal information). similarly, if we collect and use your personal information in reliance on our legitimate interests (or those of any third party), we will make clear to you at the relevant time what those legitimate interests are. use of navigational information we use navigational information to operate and improve the websites and to provide you with a better experience when you interact with hubspot. we may also use navigational information alone or in combination with personal information to provide you with personalized information about hubspot. navigational information, such as ip address, is used to approximate your location. for example, we may use your approximate location to provide content that has been translated or send emails at certain times using your local time zone. you may disable the collection and use of your location data through browser-, operating system- or device-level settings. consent concerning location data may be withdrawn at any time by emailing privacy@hubspot.com. customer testimonials and comments we post customer testimonials and comments on our websites, which may contain personal information. we obtain each customer's consent via email prior to posting the customer's name and testimonial. use of payment information if you give us payment information, we use it solely as authorized by you in accordance with this privacy policy in order for you to use the subscription services, including to check your financial qualifications and collect payment from you. we use a third-party service provider to manage credit card processing. this service provider is not permitted to store, retain, or use information you provide except for the sole purpose of credit card processing on our behalf. security of your personal information we use a variety of security technologies and procedures to help protect your personal information from unauthorized access, use or disclosure. we secure the personal information you provide on computer servers in a controlled, secure environment, protected from unauthorized access, use or disclosure. all personal information is protected using appropriate physical, technical and organizational measures. for more on security at hubspot, please see https://www.hubspot.com/security. social media features our websites include social media features, such as the facebook like button and widgets, such as the share button or interactive mini-programs that run on our sites. these features may collect your ip address, which page you are visiting on our sites, and may set a cookie to enable the feature to function properly. social media features and widgets are either hosted by a third party or hosted directly on our websites. this privacy policy does not apply to these features. your interactions with these features are governed by the privacy policy and other policies of the companies providing them. external websites our websites provide links to other websites of third parties. we do not control, and are not responsible for, the content or practices of these other websites. our provision of such links does not constitute our endorsement of these other websites, their content, their owners, or their practices. this privacy policy does not apply to these other websites, which are subject to any privacy and other policies they may have. public forums we offer publicly accessible message boards, blogs, and community forums. please keep in mind that if you directly disclose any information through our public message boards, blogs, or forums, this information may be collected and used by others. we will correct or delete any information you have posted on the websites if you so request, as described in "to unsubscribe from our communications" below. retention of personal information how long we keep information we collect about you depends on the type of information, as described in further detail below. after such time, we will either delete or anonymize your information or, if this is not possible, then we will securely store your information and isolate it from any further use until deletion is possible. we retain personal information that you provide to us where we have an ongoing legitimate business need to do so (for example, as needed to comply with our legal obligations, resolve disputes and enforce our agreements). when we have no ongoing legitimate business need to process your personal information, we securely delete the information or anonymise it or, if this is not possible, securely store your personal information and isolate it from any further processing until deletion is possible. we will delete this information at an earlier date if you so request, as described in the "how to access & control your personal data" below. if you have elected to receive marketing communications from us, we retain information about your marketing preferences for a reasonable period of time from the date you last expressed interest in our content, products, or services, such as when you last opened an email from us or ceased using your hubspot account. we retain information derived from cookies and other tracking technologies for a reasonable period of time from the date such information was created the data our customers collect by using the subscription service is retained according to the relevant agreements with our customers. 3. how we share information we collect service providers we employ other third-party service providers to provide services on our behalf to visitors to our websites and our customers and users of the subscription service and may need to share your information with them to provide information, products or services to you. examples may include removing repetitive information from prospect lists, analyzing data or performing statistical analysis, providing marketing assistance, processing credit card payments, supplementing the information you provide us in order to provide you with better service, and providing customer service or support. these service providers are prohibited from using your personal information except for these purposes, and they are required to maintain the confidentiality of your information. in all cases where we share your information with such agents, we explicitly require the agent to acknowledge and adhere to our privacy and customer data handling policies. hubspot partners in addition, we may share data with trusted partners to contact you based on your request to receive such communications, help us perform statistical analysis, or provide customer support. such third parties are prohibited from using your personal information except for these purposes, and they are required to maintain the confidentiality of your information. we partner with trusted third parties to provide you with co-marketing content that we think may be relevant to you. when you engage with these co-marketing partners, we will tell you who we are sharing data with, and provide a link to the co-marketing partner’s privacy policy so you can learn more about how to opt-out of the partner’s communications. these co-marketing partners are required to adhere to our privacy and data protection policies. for more information on our co-marketing program, see this page. if you do not want us to share your personal information with these companies, please contact us at privacy@hubspot.com. corporate events if we (or our assets) are acquired by another company, whether by merger, acquisition, bankruptcy or otherwise, that company would receive all information gathered by hubspot on the websites and the subscription service. in this event, you will be notified via email and/or a prominent notice on our website, of any change in ownership, uses of your personal information, and choices you may have regarding your personal information. compelled disclosure we reserve the right to use or disclose your personal information if required by law or if we reasonably believe that use or disclosure is necessary to protect our rights, protect your safety or the safety of others, investigate fraud, or comply with a law, court order, or legal process. 4. how we transfer data we collect internationally international transfers within hubspot’s entities to facilitate our global operations, we transfer information to either ireland or the united states and allow access to that information from countries in which the hubspot affiliated entities have operations for the purposes described in this policy. this privacy policy shall apply even if we transfer personal information to other countries. we have taken appropriate safeguards to require that your personal information will remain protected. when we share information about you within and among hubspot’s affiliated entities, we make use of standard contractual data protection clauses, which have been approved by the european commission, and we rely on the eu-u.s. and swiss-u.s. privacy shield framework to safeguard the transfer of information we collect from the european economic area (“eea”), the united kingdom, and switzerland. please see our privacy shield notice below for more information. international transfers to third parties some of the third parties described in this privacy policy, which provide services to us under contract, are based in other countries that may not have equivalent privacy and data protection laws to the country in which you reside. when we share information of customers in the eea or switzerland, we make use of the eu-u.s. and swiss-u.s. privacy shield frameworks, european commission-approved standard contractual data protection clauses, binding corporate rules for transfers to data processors, or other appropriate legal mechanisms to safeguard the transfer. please see our privacy shield notice below. for transfers to or from the united kingdom, we make use of the standard contractual clauses. privacy shield notice hubspot participates in and has certified its compliance with the eu-u.s. privacy shield framework and the swiss–u.s. privacy shield framework. the following affiliated entities adhere to the privacy shield principles: hubspot ireland limited, hubspot germany gmbh, hubspot france s.a.s, hubspot australia pty ltd, hubspot asia pte. ltd., hubspot latin america s.a.s, and hubspot japan kk. hubspot is committed to subjecting all personal data received from european union (eu) member countries and switzerland, in reliance on the privacy shield framework, to the framework’s applicable principles. to learn more about the privacy shield framework, visit the u.s. department of commerce’s privacy shield list at https://www.privacyshield.gov. hubspot is responsible for the processing of personal data it receives under each privacy shield framework and subsequently transfers to a third party acting as an agent on its behalf. hubspot complies with the privacy shield principles for all onward transfers of personal data from the eea, the united kingdom, and switzerland, including the onward transfer liability provisions. with respect to personal data received or transferred pursuant to the privacy shield framework, hubspot is subject to the regulatory enforcement powers of the u.s. federal trade commission. in certain situations, hubspot may be required to disclose personal data in response to lawful requests by public authorities, including to meet national security or law enforcement requirements. you may direct any inquiries or complaints related to our privacy shield compliance to privacy@hubspot.com. if you have an unresolved privacy or data use concern that we have not addressed satisfactorily, please contact our u.s.-based third party dispute resolution provider (free of charge) at https://feedback-form.truste.com/watchdog/request. under certain conditions, more fully described on the privacy shield website, you may be entitled to invoke binding arbitration when other dispute resolution procedures have been exhausted. 5. cookies and similar technologies cookies hubspot and our partners use cookies or similar technologies (such as web beacons and javascript) to analyze trends, administer the website, track users’ movements around the website, and to gather demographic information about our user base as a whole. to find out more about how we use cookies on our websites and how to manage your cookie preferences please see our cookie policy. navigational information collected by our customers our customers can use the tools we provide, as well as tools provided by third parties, to collect navigational information when you visit their webpages on the subscription service. hubspot does not control our customers' use of these tools, nor do we control the information they collect or how they use it. flash cookies and other third party tracking technologies the adobe flash player (and similar applications) use technology to remember settings, preferences and usage similar to browser cookies but these are managed through a different interface than the one provided by your web browser. this technology creates locally stored objects that are often referred to as "flash cookies." hubspot does not use flash cookies. however, our customers of our software platform may create pages on the hubspot platform that employ adobe flash cookies. for more information on "flash cookies" and how you can manage them please visit our cookie policy. advertising we partner with a third party ad network to either display advertising on our web site or to manage our advertising on other sites. our ad network partner uses cookies and web beacons to collect information about your activities on this and other websites to provide you targeted advertising based upon your interests. if you wish to not have this information used for the purpose of serving you targeted ads, you may opt-out by clicking here: http://preferences.truste.com/ (or if located in the european union, by clicking here: http://www.youronlinechoices.eu/). please note this does not opt you out of being served advertising. you will continue to receive generic ads. third party tracking technologies the use of cookies and web beacons by any tracking utility company is not covered by our privacy policy or cookie policy. 6. how to access & control your personal data reviewing, correcting and removing your personal information you have the following data protection rights: you can request access, correction, updates or deletion of your personal information. you can object to processing of your personal information, ask us to restrict processing of your personal information or request portability of your personal information. if we have collected and process your personal information with your consent, then you can withdraw your consent at any time. withdrawing your consent will not affect the lawfulness of any processing we conducted prior to your withdrawal, nor will it affect processing of your personal information conducted in reliance on lawful processing grounds other than consent. you have the right to complain to a data protection authority about our collection and use of your personal information. contact details for data protection authorities in the eea, switzerland and certain non-european countries (including the us and canada) are available here.) to exercise any of these rights, please contact us at privacy@hubspot.com or by mail to hubspot, inc., 25 first street, 2nd floor, cambridge, ma 02141 usa, attention: privacy. we will respond to your request to change, correct, or delete your information within a reasonable timeframe and notify you of the action we have taken. if you would like to access or control your data with one of our customers or users of the subscription service, please contact the customer or user directly. hubspot acts as a processor for our customers and will work with our customers to fulfill these requests when applicable. anti-spam policy our acceptable use policy, at http://legal.hubspot.com/acceptable-use, applies to us and to our customers and, among other things, prohibits use of the subscription service to send unsolicited commercial email in violation of applicable laws, and requires the inclusion in every email sent using the subscription service of an "opt-out" mechanism and other required information. we require all of our customers to agree to adhere to the acceptable use policy at all times, and any violations of the acceptable use policy by a customer can result in immediate suspension or termination of the subscription service. to unsubscribe from our communications you may unsubscribe from our marketing communications by clicking on the "unsubscribe" link located on the bottom of our e-mails, updating your communication preferences, or by emailing us at privacy@hubspot.com or postal mail to hubspot, inc., 25 first street, 2nd floor, cambridge, ma 02141 usa, attention: privacy. customers cannot opt out of receiving transactional emails related to their account with us or the subscription service. to unsubscribe from our customers' communications our customers are solely responsible for their own marketing emails and other communications; we cannot unsubscribe you from their communications. you can unsubscribe from our customers' marketing communications by clicking on the "unsubscribe" link located on the bottom of their emails, or by contacting them directly. 7. california privacy rights this section applies only to california consumers. it describes how we collect, use, and share california consumers' personal information in our role as a business, and the rights applicable to such residents. if you are unable to access this privacy policy due to a disability or any physical or mental impairment, please contact us and we will arrange to supply you with the information you need in an alternative format that you can access. for purposes of this section "personal information" has the meaning given in the california consumer privacy act (“ccpa”). how we collect, use, and share your personal information we have collected the following statutory categories of personal information in the past twelve (12) months: identifiers, such as name, e-mail address, mailing address, and phone number. we collect this information directly from you or from third party sources. commercial information, such as subscription records. we collect this information directly from you. internet or network information, such as browsing and search history. we collect this information directly from your device. geolocation data, such as ip address. we collect this information from your device. financial information, such as payment information or financial account numbers in the process of providing you with a subscription. we collect this information from you. inferences. other personal information, in instances when you interact with us online, by phone or mail in the context of receiving help through our help desks or other support channels; participation in customer surveys or contests; or in providing the subscription service. the business and commercial purposes for which we collect this information are described in section 2 of this privacy policy. the categories of third parties to whom we "disclose" this information for a business purpose are described in section 3 of this privacy policy. your california rights you have certain rights regarding the personal information we collect or maintain about you. please note these rights are not absolute, and there may be cases when we decline your request as permitted by law. the right of access means that you have the right to request that we disclose what personal information we have collected, used and disclosed about you in the past 12 months. the right of deletion means that you have the right to request that we delete personal information collected or maintained by us, subject to certain exceptions. the right to non-discrimination means that you will not receive any discriminatory treatment when you exercise one of your privacy rights. hubspot does not sell personal information to third parties (pursuant to california civil code §§ 1798.100–1798.199, also known as the california consumer privacy act of 2018). how to exercise your california rights you can exercise your rights yourself or you can alternatively designate an authorized agent to exercise these rights on your behalf. please note that to protect your personal information, we will verify your identity by a method appropriate to the type of request you are making. we may also request that your authorized agent have written permission from you to make requests on your behalf, and we may also need to verify your authorized agent's identity to protect your personal information. please use the contact details below, if you would like to: access this policy in an alternative format; exercise your rights; learn more about your rights or our privacy practices; or designate an authorized agent to make a request on your behalf. e-mail: privacy@hubspot.com. 8. data protection officer if you have any questions about this privacy policy or our privacy practices, or if you have a disability and need to access this notice in a different format, please contact us at privacy@hubspot.com or by mail at: nicholas knoop privacy@hubspot.com hubspot, inc. 25 first street, 2nd floor cambridge, ma 02141 usa increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email scheduling close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group get a free website report free tools & generators invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support contact hubspot support english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2020 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy