u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition illustrator: meryl rowin curated for women’s work icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. women are reshaping their roles at home and in the workplace, whether in fields traditionally dominated by men, or those that have long seen women at the forefront. in the u.s. and abroad, we're highlighting how women get it done. zone 3 this air force veteran helps traumatized soldiers flourish through farming after ten years of service, leeann murphy sees volunteer work with veterans to farmers as her “second service.” paid for by usaa how this military wife changed her approach to deployment and transformed her life military wife becky hoy encourages “heroes at home” to opt in. paid for by usaa after 20 years of military service, this single mom is giving back to female vets because “no one comes back the same way they went in.” paid for by usaa how a kayaking trip changed a wounded warrior’s life “it was like freedom all over again. it was like being born again, i guess. it was like i woke up.” paid for by usaa this veteran designed herself a new future when tiffany freeze’s service ended, she found her purpose through creativity and advocating for her fellow veterans. paid for by usaa this veteran is fighting for a culture of change, in the military and herself when capt. rachelle thomas came back from war, a new battle for gender equality and wellness began. paid for by usaa see more zone 3 menopause: the taboo topic we need to talk about between sexism and ageism, menopause gives rise to many stereotypes that have consequences for women's private and professional lives. the secret to raising kids who actually get along researchers at northeastern university may have finally cracked the code. janelle monáe says 'antebellum' is one of her 'toughest roles to date' the singer-songwriter said her first lead role explores the effects of slavery and is one of her "toughest roles to date." after my abusive relationship, i couldn't leave the house. travel opened my world up again. "if i didn’t leave my home, i didn’t have to face the possibility of encountering another guy like my ex. " after a company layoff, survivors are more likely to do this a type of "survivor's guilt" can impact your career in a number of ways — including making you more likely to quit. adhd can be debilitating at work. here's how to make it better. improve your focus (and your mental health) at the office with these expert-backed tips. the 'ugly' side of miscarriage we don't talk about it's time to have a conversation about what women go through physically when they lose a pregnancy. 11 hilarious tweets about job interview questions what if you shared what was really on your mind during job interviews? millennial men are all for gender equality, but don't ask about housework you'd think millennial couples would be more egalitarian in their approach to household chores, but you'd be wrong. 8 tips to make weeknight family dinners easier advice from parents for having weeknight meals with their kids. a female engineer at nasa is conquering mars — and gender equality surrounded by white men on a daily basis, farah alibay is committed to increasing diversity and the visibility of women in her field. 26 easy ways to encourage your kids to read more bookstagram influencers share their tried-and-true tips for parents to use with their children. see more newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.