u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition headstrong icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. being healthy isn't just about exercise and eating right. true "wellness" requires mindfulness, sleep, finding ways to de-stress, and learning how to cope with daily life. huffpost's headstrong project helps you take care of yourself so you can take on the world. zone 3 what's the deal with sound baths and do they actually work? you might be surprised how sound therapy affects issues like stress, insomnia, pain and more. taking care of yourself right now is a public service the most selfless thing you can do during a possible pandemic is to look after your own health. here's how. 7 self-care practices that will ward off the sunday scaries want to be one of those people who think “sunday, fun day” instead of dwelling on the sunday scaries? read this. what to do if you're anxious about coronavirus here are some ways to cope if you feel weighed down by covid-19 concerns. 6 ways to channel your anger when you're in it therapists offer their best tips on calming yourself down when you've blown your top. psa: vitamin deficiencies can mess with your mental health there are mood-related signs you're low on nutrients like vitamin d. here's how to tell and what to do about it. see more zone 3 is it ok to use a reusable water bottle in a coronavirus outbreak? experts weigh in on whether this habit can spread covid-19 at work and in other public places. what will it be like to work during a coronavirus outbreak? prepare your work-from-home kits now and ask about leave policies. these couples sleep in separate bedrooms — and they're happier for it sleeping apart may not work for everyone. but for some couples, it actually improves their relationships. are children less likely to contract the coronavirus? here's what we know. outbreaks of the disease are spreading, and parents want to keep their kids healthy. these alternative treatments may be the answer to the pain of aging with the number of american seniors expected to almost double by 2060, there is a growing need to find alternative pain management tools. how to talk to your doctor if you're experiencing chronic pain these are the questions you should ask and how you should approach a treatment plan, according to experts. i lost my husband suddenly. here's what kobe bryant's death taught me about grief. the fact that i was shocked by a freak accident, the kind that stole my husband less than two years ago, produced a new kind of survivor’s guilt. emotional support animals could soon be banned from planes the department of transportation is considering new rules that would restrict service animals on airplanes to specially trained dogs. 5 easy ways to be a more mindful parent "we’re missing out on all of these meaningful moments with our kids, because we’re literally just trying to survive." how to cope when you find out your ex has a new partner it doesn't matter how long it's been since the breakup: discovering your ex has moved on with a new boyfriend or girlfriend can feel like a punch in the gut. it's ok to take a 'step back' from your family as an adult honestly, we could all take note from the duke and duchess of sussex. why you only remember some of your dreams there are a few factors that affect whether you recall what happened in your brain during sleep. see more newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.