u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition faq contents: community code of conduct | questions about commenting & policies | questions about subscriptions & membership | questions about content | questions about our apps | getting help huffpost community code of conduct welcome to the huffpost community: huffpost promotes a receptive, transparent and civil atmosphere for comments and users. we are dedicated to maintaining a respectful community that actively engages in lively discussions about stories in the news. please keep the following in mind when writing comments: respect others: be polite to all the members of our community, including other commenters, authors, and the subjects of articles. real people read your comments. everyone is welcome and encouraged to voice their opinion, regardless of identity, politics, ideology, religion or agreement with other community members, the author of the post or staff members, as long as those opinions are respectful and constructively add to the conversation. huffpost does not tolerate direct or indirect attacks, name-calling or insults, nor does it tolerate intentional attempts to derail, hijack, troll or bait others. we reserve the right to remove such comments whenever warranted. individuals who consistently or intentionally post these types of comments may lose their ability to comment and, if necessary, may be permanently excluded from the platform. safe space: above all, we strongly believe that the huffpost community should be a safe and welcoming space for all individuals, groups and their ideas. using purposefully insulting or hostile language and making personal threats are not welcome. if you directly or indirectly threaten the physical or mental well-being of a member of this community, or an individual or group, you may be removed immediately. if a credible threat is made against an individual or group, it may also be reported to law enforcement, and we will cooperate with them. personally identifiable information should never be posted to huffpost comments sections, for the privacy and protection of all community members. this includes but is not limited to full names, addresses, phone numbers, or email addresses. any comments that contain such information will be deleted. (personally identifiable information excludes your displayed name as it appears on huffpost comments; huffpost highly discourages anonymous usernames and pseudonyms) moderation: in order to provide this space, comments are pre-moderated by our content filters before they are posted to a story’s comments thread. please note that comments that include links to other websites, or embedded images and videos, are not permitted in our comment threads. this is to protect against the possibility of abuse and malware that can come from unrecognized links or media. be yourself, only yourself, and just one of yourself.: every person's opinion is valuable and unique. pretending to be someone else removes that value. don't misrepresent yourself or others, or spread misinformation. if you do, you make the community less enjoyable and valuable. misrepresentation will be removed whenever it's found. questions about commenting & policies q: do i need a huffpost account to comment? - a: no, but you need a facebook or twitter account to sign in to the commenting platform, which is operated by our third party comment partner (spot.im). q: what does it mean to comment on a huffpost article? - a: when you comment on a huffpost article, your comment is published via the spot.im network. the spot.im comments plugin is loaded whenever you open the comment thread on a story. people with slower connections may have trouble loading comments on a story with high volume. please try reloading the page or switching to a faster connection if you are having problems. q: i posted a comment. why can't i see it on the site? - a: be aware that not all comments will appear immediately on the site, particularly if they contain filtered words, links or media flagged by our moderation tools. if this happens, you may need to rephrase your comment (removing profanity, links, or media) and submit it again. q: why do my posts never appear in huffpost comments? - a: if a user has repeatedly posted comments that violate any of these ground rules, their comments may be blocked from appearing on the site. this includes inappropriate comments that contain, insults, attacks, abuse towards other users or groups. q: why am i being asked to consent to a cookie policy? what is this? - a: huffpost values your privacy and aims to give you control over how your data is used. we partner with advertisers to show you the most relevant ads based on the data you agree to share with us. to see more information about the data we collect, visit your huffpost privacy dashboard. questions about subscriptions and membership q: do i need to subscribe to read huffpost? - a: no. you can browse and read/watch content on huffpost.com, and shop in the huffpost stuff store, without logging into anything or paying for a huffpost plus subscription. if you want to comment on an article, you will need to sign into our comment section with your facebook or twitter account. q: why should i subscribe or create a free huffpost login? - a: by joining as a free member on the apps or our website, you will be able to save and sync your bookmarks anywhere you are logged in. that will allow you to create a reading list for when you have more time to read, or to finish an article on your phone that you started reading on our website. when logged in, you will also be able to manage your newsletter subscriptions. you can join huffpost plus to get enhanced features like a reduced-ads experience on the apps, a discount in the huffpost stuff store and members-only newsletters. learn more at https://www.huffpost.com/subscribe. q: i subscribed to the annual offer. how do i claim my exclusive t-shirt? - a: annual subscribers should look for the welcome email in your inbox. the email contains a link and a promo code to claim your members-only t-shirt from the huffpost stuff store. please check your spam folder in case your email system filtered the message out. q: i subscribed to huffpost plus, but i don’t see my benefits when i visit the site. what’s wrong? - a: your subscription is linked to your huffpost account. you must be logged into your huffpost account on any browser that you use to ensure access to your member benefits. q: why do you say “ad-free” if i might still see ads? - a: a huffpost plus subscription will remove all ads for almost all readers. that means ads on most videos and ads on section fronts and article pages, including the “news from around the web” links at the bottom of the article page. because of agreements in place with certain partners, though, we must show ads on a very small portion of our videos, on videos embedded from other platforms, and on content we post from our international editions. q: can i use someone else’s huffpost account? - a: subscriptions can only be associated with one user account, so huffpost plus subscriptions can’t be shared. for basic accounts, we encourage people to create their own to avoid mixing bookmarks and other settings, but there is no restriction on how many devices can be logged in to the same free account. q: i created a huffpost account but i’m not logged in. what’s wrong? - a: when creating a huffpost account, you must verify the email address you used to sign up before your account is active. check your email inbox for a verification code you would have received after entering your details. if you never got an email, or if your connection was interrupted when the verification step happened, you will need to follow the registration process again. please ensure you have a consistent wifi or cellular connection while creating your account or logging in and look for the verification email in your inbox. q: i tried to log in to the huffpost stuff store, but it didn’t work. what’s wrong? - a: the huffpost stuff store is managed by a partner, stackcommerce. your huffpost account would be separate from an account you have or create with stackcommerce on the store. you can make purchases in the huffpost stuff store without creating a separate account. q: i’m logged in but can’t see my bookmarks. what’s wrong? - a: if you are logged in and see an empty bookmarks page, it could be because you saved those bookmarks on a device that you were not logged in on. ensure that you are logged in both when saving and viewing bookmarks. q: i’m logged in but can’t see all of my newsletters. what’s wrong? - a: when logged in, we can only show you newsletters associated with the email you used to create your account. any newsletters you are receiving at other email addresses can be unsubscribed by following the link in the email itself. if you want to manage all of your newsletter subscriptions in one place, you can unsubscribe from the emails associated with other addresses and sign up again from the newsletters section when logged into huffpost. q: i have subscribed to newsletters and was getting them regularly but i am missing some from past few days. - a: we're currently updating our email newsletter system. over the next few weeks you might run into some problems receiving our newsletters. check your spam or junk mail folders, or email us at dailybrief@huffpost.com if your newsletters are missing. thanks, and we apologize for any inconvenience. q: how do i cancel my subscription or delete my huffpost account? - a: if you’d like to cancel a subscription that you signed up for on the apps, you must visit your ios app store or google play store subscriptions page where in-app purchases are managed. if you originally subscribed on the website, you can find account management options on your profile page at https://www.huffpost.com/member. you can remove your huffpost account from your device by visiting the my settings section of the app and tapping on the “view account info” link at the top of the screen. from there, choose “manage accounts” and tap the “edit” button to remove an account. if you’d like to delete your huffpost account completely from our systems, please send us a request at support@huffpost.com q: i tried to cancel my subscription, but i was told i couldn’t. what’s wrong? - a: your subscription can only be canceled on the platform where you signed up. if you subscribed in our ios or android app, you can cancel your subscription via the ios app store or google play store subscriptions page. if you subscribed via huffpost's website or mobile website, please follow the account management links on your profile page at https://www.huffpost.com/member. questions about content q: where is a section i used to see? (e.g., opinion, comedy, crime, weird news, good news) - a: huffpost covers a diverse range of topics, and occasionally we revise the sections that we present in the menu. in most cases, even when we remove a section from the list, the content is still available in another section. for example, while we have removed the “comedy” section from the navigation list, comedy articles can still be found in the entertainment section. you can find links to other sections at the bottom of every content section in the app where you see the “you’re all caught up” message. any section can be added to your “my sections” list by tapping the “add” button at the top of the screen, which will make it easier to find that section on future visits. q: i am trying to watch a video but it says that it's not available. what’s wrong? - a: some videos we post are from partners, and those partner videos may have restrictions as to who can watch them, most often geographical restrictions related to licensing agreements. we try to show content only to users who can access it, but sometimes you may see an error, depending on your location. q: what do the labels "paid for by" and "supported by" mean? - a: huffpost believes it's important for readers to understand how our site makes its money and to see into the financial arrangements that enable us to bring our journalism to readers. we accomplish this by clearly labeling the two types of partner content as either "paid for by" or "supported by." there are two different labels because there are important differences between the two. when you see the label "paid for by," this usually means that ryot studio — the global creative studio that specializes in branded content here at verizon media — has worked with an advertiser to co-create the content. all of those articles are labeled as "paid for," with ryot studio on the byline and more information about the advertiser at the bottom. huffpost includes this labeling prominently wherever such content is featured, on our own site and on social media. huffpost also works with philanthropic and commercial partners to enable and enrich editorially independent projects that expand our coverage of topics aligned with our editorial mission. “supported by” labeling indicates that a partner has given us money to execute an editorial project. partners also often have ads that run alongside these “supported” articles, but partners do not review nor do they have direct input into “supported by” articles or the series beyond an agreement on the broader themes. each article produced for a supported series includes labeling and a disclosure that explains the relationship. getting help q: what do i do if i want to provide feedback/ideas? - a: if you want to provide feedback or ideas, please visit our user portal here q: what do i do if my question is not addressed in this faq? - a: if you are having a problem that is not answered here, please send your inquiry or chat with a support representative at help.huffpost.com questions about our app contents: how to use the app | questions about subscriptions & membership | questions about app content | getting help how to use the huffpost app q: why should i use the huffpost app instead of the website? - a: the huffpost app offers the same great huffpost website content plus several features that are not present on the website. with the ios and android app you can: read articles offline, sign up for push notifications to get updates on important news and feature stories, and personalize your "sections" list to find what you are interested in more quickly. we hope you will try the app and let us know what you think by sending us a note at ios@huffpost.com or android@huffpost.com q: can i download content to read offline? - a: yes, the huffpost app supports offline reading. to enable offline reading, visit the "my settings" section and scroll down to “offline reading” to customize your offline reading preferences. q: is the app available in other countries and languages? - a: the huffpost app has 15 regional editions with content specific to those areas, representing eight languages in addition to english. in the "my settings" section, you can change your edition to read huffpost content in french, german, greek, italian, japanese, korean, portuguese and spanish. q: can i save articles to read later? - a: yes! tap the ribbon icon on any article (located on the toolbar at the bottom of the screen or below the headline on section fronts) to add it to your "bookmarks" section. if you are logged in, the list will be synced with your user account and available on the website as well. your bookmarks will be preserved when you upgrade to a new version of the app and will only be removed if you delete them manually, or if you delete the app. q: can i read my bookmarked articles in other places? - a: yes, by creating a huffpost account, your bookmarks list will be synced anywhere you are logged in. any bookmarks you add in the app will be visible on the web, and any bookmarks you add on the website will be visible on the apps. q: how do i increase the size of the text in the app? - a: the default font size in the huffpost app is linked to your device’s settings. to change the size of the text in the huffpost app, go to the "my settings" page from the tab bar and choose a larger size. q: how do i limit the amount of space the huffpost app uses on my device? - a: some content downloaded in the huffpost app, like your bookmarks, will increase the amount of space our app takes up on your device. to minimize this, you have two options: clear the contents of your recently viewed list by going to the "settings" page in the huffpost app and tapping the “clear recently viewed” option to reset that section. remove some of your bookmarks by going to your "bookmarks" page within the app. you can un-bookmark an item by tapping the ribbon icon, or by swiping left on the article in the list to show the “delete” button. q: how do i comment on an article in the app? - a: you can submit a comment on any article you are reading in the app by tapping the message-bubble icon on the toolbar at the bottom of the screen. this will load our comments section. q: what do i do if i can’t see the comments section at all? - a: most often, when the comments fail to load, it is because of a slow cellular or wifi connection. while the page will appear blank, waiting a bit longer can be enough to give the comments time to appear. if the comments do not load after 20 seconds, it may mean that there is another problem. please let us know if you are experiencing this issue with a full wifi connection by sending a note to ios@huffpost.com or android@huffpost.com q: can i control what notifications i get from the huffpost app? - a: the huffpost app currently offers breaking news as well as category-specific notifications for you to stay on top of the things that matter to you. you can sign up or change the categories you receive by visiting the app’s “alerts” tab and tapping the icon in the top-right corner of the screen. if you have blocked notifications on the system level, you can enable them by visiting your ios or android settings app, scrolling down to the notifications section and switching notifications on for huffpost. q: does the huffpost app have a widget for the ios today screen? - a: yes! our today screen widget (which appears when you swipe right on your iphone or ipad home screen) allows you to see the top story from each of the first four sections in your “my sections” list. q: does the huffpost app have an android homescreen widget? - a: yes, you can install huffpost’s homescreen widget, which will show you a selection of trending stories without having to launch the app, by long-pressing an empty space on one of your home screens and selecting “widgets”. questions about subscriptions and membership q: do i need to subscribe to read huffpost? - a: no. you can browse and read/watch content in the huffpost apps, and shop in the huffpost stuff store without logging into anything or paying for a huffpost plus subscription. if you want to comment on an article, you will need to sign into our comment section with your facebook or twitter account. q: why should i subscribe or create a free huffpost login? - a: by joining as a free member on the apps or our website, you will be able to save and sync your bookmarks anywhere you are logged in. that will allow you to create a reading list for when you have more time to read, or to finish an article on your phone that you started reading on our website. when logged in, you will also be able to manage your newsletter subscriptions. you can join huffpost plus to get enhanced features like a reduced-ads experience on the apps, a discount in the huffpost stuff store and members-only newsletters. learn more on the my settings page in the app, or on the web at https://www.huffpost.com/subscribe q: i subscribed to the annual offer. how do i claim my exclusive t-shirt? - a: annual subscribers should look for the welcome email in your inbox. the email contains a link and a promo code to claim your members-only t-shirt from the huffpost stuff store. please check your spam folder in case your email system filtered the message out. q: i subscribed to huffpost plus, but i don’t see my benefits when i visit the app. what’s wrong? - a: in general, your huffpost plus subscription is linked to your huffpost account. while you are able to subscribe in the app and access the ad-free* experience there without creating a huffpost account, you won’t be able to unlock all of your member benefits until you do that. creating a huffpost account will unlock the full set of benefits, and will allow you to sync other user preferences across the website and apps. if you purchased your subscription in the app but created a huffpost account somewhere outside the app, you can link your huffpost plus subscription to that huffpost account by logging into your huffpost account on your device and tapping the “restore purchase” button on the offer page (find it on your my settings page). this will associate your subscription with the account you are logged in with. note: if your subscription was previously linked to a different huffpost account, this action will link it to the new account only. q: why do you say “ad-free” if i might still see ads? - a: a huffpost plus subscription will remove all ads for almost all readers. that means ads on most videos and ads on section fronts and article pages, including the “news from around the web” links at the bottom of the article page. because of agreements in place with certain partners, though, we must show ads on a very small portion of our videos, on videos embedded from other platforms, and on content we post from our international editions. q: can i use someone else’s huffpost account? - a: subscriptions can only be associated with one user account, so huffpost plus subscriptions can’t be shared. for free accounts, we encourage people to create their own to avoid mixing bookmarks and other settings, but there is no restriction on how many devices can be logged in to the same free account. q: how do i change the email address associated with my huffpost account? - a: to change the email on your account, open the my settings section of the app and tap on the “view account info” link at the top of the screen. from there, choose “edit profile”. q: can i transfer my subscription to a new phone or other device? - a: yes. if you have created a huffpost account, simply log in to the huffpost app on your new device and your huffpost plus features will be automatically enabled. if you purchased your subscription on the app but did not create a huffpost account, you can use the restore purchase button on the offer page (accessible via the my settings page). this will check for a subscription associated with your app store account and will apply it to your new device. note that without a huffpost account, you won’t be able to take advantage of the full suite of benefits that your membership unlocks. if you subscribed on the website, simply log into your huffpost account on the apps or website on your new device and your benefits will be unlocked. q: i created a huffpost account but i’m not logged in. what’s wrong? - a: when creating a huffpost account, you must verify the email address you used to sign up before your account is active. check your email inbox for a verification code you would have received after entering your details. if you never got an email, or if your connection was interrupted when the verification step happened, you will need to follow the registration process again. please ensure you have a consistent wifi or cellular connection while creating your account or logging in and look for the verification email in your inbox. q: i tried to log in to the huffpost stuff store, but it didn’t work. what’s wrong? - a: the huffpost stuff store is managed by a partner, stackcommerce. your huffpost account would be separate from an account you have or create with stackcommerce on the store. you can make purchases in the huffpost stuff store without creating a separate account. q: i’m logged in but can’t see my bookmarks. what’s wrong? - a: if you are logged in and see an empty bookmarks page, it could be because you saved those bookmarks on a device that you were not logged in on. ensure that you are logged in both when saving and viewing bookmarks. q: i’m logged in but can’t see all of my newsletters. what’s wrong? - a: when logged in, we can only show you newsletters associated with the email you used to create your account. any newsletters you are receiving at other email addresses can be unsubscribed by following the link in the email itself. if you want to manage all of your newsletter subscriptions in one place, you can unsubscribe from the emails associated with other addresses and sign up again from the newsletters section when logged into huffpost. q: how do i cancel my subscription or delete my huffpost account? - a: if you’d like to cancel a subscription that you signed up for on the apps, you must visit your ios app store or google play store subscriptions page where in-app purchases are managed. if you originally subscribed on the website, you can find account management options on your profile page at https://www.huffpost.com/member. you can remove your huffpost account from your device by visiting the my settings section of the app and tapping on the “view account info” link at the top of the screen. from there, choose “manage accounts” and tap the “edit” button to remove an account. if you’d like to delete your huffpost account completely from our systems, please send us a request at support@huffpost.com. questions about app content q: how often is content refreshed on the app? - a: content is constantly refreshed throughout the huffpost app 24 hours a day and seven days a week - both the content of articles and the mix of articles on section pages. some sections are updated more frequently than others, but our main news section will always give you the most up-to-date content that our editors think you should know about. to ensure your app is always fresh, make sure your device allows cellular data usage for huffpost (in your device’s settings app), and make sure you are always using the latest version available in the app store or play store. q: can i personalize what content i see in the app? - a: yes, you can. in the “sections” tab, you can add preferred topics to your my sections list, which will set the order of sections available when you swipe right or left in the “news” tab on the bottom tab bar in the app. the first four sections in your list also determine what stories appear in the ios today widget when you swipe left from your phone’s home screen. q: where is a section i used to see? (e.g. opinion, comedy, crime, weird news, good news) - a: huffpost covers a diverse range of topics, and occasionally we revise the sections that we present in the menu. in most cases, even when we remove a section from the list, the content is still available in another section. for example, while we have removed the comedy section from the navigation list, comedy articles can still be found in the entertainment section. you can find links to other sections at the bottom of every content section in the app where you see the “you’re all caught up” message. any section can be added to your “my sections” list by tapping the “add” button at the top of the screen, which will make it easier to find that section on future visits. getting help q: my app is crashing. how do i fix it? - a: if your app is crashing, the first thing to do is to make sure you are on the latest version installed. to do that, visit the huffpost app in the app store or google play store and tap the “update” button if you see one. if you are already on the latest version and are still experiencing crashes, it may mean there is a problem with a piece of content that has already been downloaded into the app’s memory. try deleting the app (tap and hold the icon until it starts wiggling, and then tap the “x”) and reinstalling it from the app store. note that this will delete your bookmarks and favorite sections. if you would prefer not to reinstall, please let us know to the best of your recollection what you were doing last before the crashing started by sending a note to ios@huffpost.com or android@huffpost.com, and we will try to resolve the issue without losing your bookmarks and favorite sections. q: how do i let huffpost editors know that there is a mistake in an article? - a: if you see an error in an article on the huffpost app, please go to the "my settings" section of the app and tap the “contact our editors” button. q: why does the huffpost app have so many ads? - a: huffpost partners with advertisers and sponsors to help fund our journalism. we work with them to ensure a positive ad experience for our readers, and we are constantly reevaluating the mix and placement of these ads with that goal in mind. q: what do i do if my question is not addressed in this faq? - a: if you are having a problem that is not answered here, please submit an issue in our help center help.huffpost.com [back to top] newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.