u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost personal. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition huffpost personal i'm a combat veteran. trump's inability to tell the truth is costing american lives. "i believe it’s every citizen’s responsibility to demand that our president be tactically proficient and set an example of courage, frankness and honesty." by scott w. patton, guest writer want to know why people stockpile toilet paper? i'm a hoarder and i have a few ideas. "i’ve even shelled out $94 for a case of 96 rolls [during the coronavirus pandemic]. ... to me, this isn’t about panic-buying, but about buying peace of mind." by rachel kramer bussel, guest writer i'm protecting my patients from the coronavirus. will you do your part to protect me? "without reinforcements and a cohesive national response, we will lose this war. ... you can help change that. otherwise, our blood will be on your hands." by joshua budhu, md, guest writer i home-schooled my kids for 3 years. here’s what parents need to know now. flexibility is 100% the key to staying sane as a home-schooling parent. by allison haggerty, guest writer trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad this is what it’s like to have ocd during the coronavirus pandemic "in the same way that people with underlying medical conditions are more susceptible to ... the coronavirus, so too will people with poor mental health struggle to cope." by lucy danser, guest writer i'm an er doctor in nyc. trump's coronavirus plan isn't just dangerous, it's deadly. "president trump, i beg you to take this pandemic more seriously and i am begging you to do it now." by rachel sobolev, guest writer newsletter sign up must reads look under the hood, and take a behind the scenes look at how longform journalism is made. subscribe to must reads. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. it was hard living paycheck to paycheck before coronavirus. now it’s impossible. "how will so many of us continue to pay bills, juggle child care and work and live on such limited — and now vanishing — funds?" by nicole johnson, guest writer as a disabled person, i'm afraid i may not be deemed worth saving from the coronavirus "as the covid-19 pandemic continues, deciding who to save is no longer a hypothetical exercise in a medical ethics textbook." by emily ladau, guest writer these strippers are delivering food to stay employed and bring joy during coronavirus shon boulden, owner of two portland, oregon, strip clubs, posed "boober eats" as a joke. the enthusiastic response has been no laughing matter. by jamie feldman as a grocery store worker, i'm on the frontline of coronavirus and i'm overwhelmed "suddenly, i’ve been promoted from invisible hummus stocker to brave service provider." by karleigh frisbie brogan, guest writer what parenting immunocompromised kids taught me about battling coronavirus "in the last two years, my family has learned a lot, and much of it is helpful today as we attempt to win the war against covid-19." by mina manchester, guest writer the coronavirus made me realize how lucky i am to have my online friends "it took the sudden and unexpected inability to socialize offline to make me understand just how wonderful and valuable my internet friends truly are." by hannah selinger, guest writer my 88-year-old grandma isn't taking coronavirus seriously enough and it's terrifying at age 88, and with copd, she falls into both the most vulnerable segment of the population -- and the most stubborn. by jamie feldman i'm a doctor. the u.s. response to coronavirus has been nothing short of criminal. "with every crucial delay, with every blunder and misstep, the toll is going to be measured in lives lost." by dipti s. barot, guest writer parents: it's ok if you're barely getting by right now "in this time of the coronavirus, keep your kids safe, make them feel loved and feed them. that’s all." by kim simon, guest writer what working while sick taught me about the risk of coronavirus for all of us restaurant workers will show up to work sick because they need the money and the job. by lindsey danis, guest writer donald trump’s ‘chinese virus’ coronavirus tweet has me scared for my family "the president's dog whistle is unconscionable and could inspire unthinkable actions and dangerous consequences for families like mine." by louise gleeson, guest writer we've been in coronavirus lockdown in china for 8 weeks. here's what you should know. "these are the social distancing strategies that have worked for our family over the last two months." by anonymous in china, guest writer i'm a teacher, and it feels like my city doesn’t care about my life nyc teachers won’t forget this. by emily james, guest writer the heartbreaking reality of parenting in the coronavirus pandemic i’m watching my son adapt to a new way of being amid the covid-19 crisis. by emily mccombs newsletter sign up must reads look under the hood, and take a behind the scenes look at how longform journalism is made. subscribe to must reads. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost personal. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.