australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video women 03/21/2020 10:00 edt huffpost her stories: the anxiety of giving birth amid the coronavirus plus: a book to read while you’re stuck at home. by sara bondioli, huffpost us nadia_bormotova via getty images pregnant women are being forced to confront new anxieties during the coronavirus pandemic. hi, readers — “i’m just not excited anymore,” i told my husband sunday through tears. my daughter could arrive any day now, and the few things we were able to plan regarding her birth are even more up in the air because of the coronavirus pandemic. when i read associate editor victoria richards’ article on huffpost u.k. about being pregnant in this uncertain time, it perfectly reflected my feelings. “to be honest, it’s the lack of information that is more perplexing,” expectant mom elly branner says in the piece, speaking of her concern that the restrictions on hospital visitors could limit her husband’s time with her. (for us, as of now, my husband and doula will be allowed in but no other visitors will be able to come to the hospital.) “it’s not how i imagined the birth of our first baby and it’s left me really upset,” notes hannah whitten, referring to how family members who had planned to visit for her birth are no longer able to. “it has completely robbed me of what should be the most wonderful time of my life.” the research available suggests pregnant women are not at overly high risk to contract serious cases of covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, even though pregnant women are generally more susceptible to respiratory illnesses as their bodies undergo immune changes. and with such little definitive information on covid-19 available, many are understandably worried about the risks to them and their children, pre- and post-birth. it’s a situation that’s adding more stress during a time that would already be filled with anxiety. on huffpost u.s., guest writer christine meade shares how she feels six weeks from her due date. among other things, she’s been trying to balance the feeling she should exercise for a healthy pregnancy and her concerns about potentially picking up germs at the gym. i experienced this last weekend when i headed to my weekly prenatal yoga class (one of my few social activities at this point in my pregnancy), only to turn around halfway there. i panicked, thinking i might be making the wrong decision and exposing myself and my baby to the coronavirus there. (the yoga studio has since closed as the pandemic continues.) staying calm in this environment is tough. i’m trying to be open to the idea that i may not even be able to control the few things i thought i would be able to. and a plan for birth that might be feasible today might have to change if i give birth tomorrow. it’s comforting to know i’m not the only pregnant woman with these fears and anxieties right now. and, yes, as well-meaning friends continue to remind me right now, it will be an interesting story to tell our daughter down the road — and i’m sure someday (after she’s safely here and this immediate threat has passed) i’ll embrace that. are you anxious about being pregnant or caring for a newborn during the pandemic? do you have other worries you’re encountering because of the coronavirus? share your story with me. in the meantime, her stories is going to take a break while our huffpost teams focus on bringing you comprehensive coverage of the pandemic. we hope everyone stays safe and healthy, and we look forward to returning to your inbox soon. take care of yourselves, sara sara bondioli, editor, huffpost u.s. follow huffpost’s live blog for up-to-date coverage on the coronavirus pandemic from all of our global editions, and be sure to check your country’s huffpost homepage for other news during this time. also, follow reporter victoria richards (@nakedvix) on twitter to read more of her work. lanastock via getty images we're celebrating all types of hair. diving into the role of hair in women’s lives﻿ a woman’s hair often shapes her identity, and huffpost u.s. is publishing a series of stories exploring what that means for a wide range of individuals. the pieces address topics such as racial bias at hair salons, the pressure to have straight hair in indian and filipino cultures, muslim women’s hair and the hijab, and the taboo of female baldness. it’s a celebration of your hair, as well as that of your neighbors next door and around the world. illustration: damon dahlen/huffpost; photos: elena seibert/harper collins/getty images "my dark vanessa" delves into a victim's complicated perspective of abuse. would lolita have said ‘me too’? “my dark vanessa,” the debut novel of kate elizabeth russell, delves into a complicated side of abuse. exploring the abusive relationship between a 42-year-old teacher and his 15-year-old student, the book offers something that’s missing from vladimir nabokov’s “lolita”: the perspective of the victim. the buzzy title looks at how abuse grounded in grooming, exploitation and trauma can feel like love and lead to an experience the victim may not perceive as universally bad. icymi as a trans woman, nothing compares to the clothes and kindness i get from local darzis my dating tweet went viral. then everything changed when the angry men showed up. sex after childbirth takes time — but i’ve learned it’s more than worth the wait what it’s like to be a black widow emotional abuse isn’t over when you walk out. it’s still impacting me now. kiara advani’s ‘guilty’ is proof that bollywood really didn’t get #metoo the heartbreaking reality of parenting in the coronavirus pandemic suggest a correction sara bondioli editor, huffpost more: pregnancy coronavirus natural hair her stories my dark vanessa trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.