fun things for creative people events archive about projects contact advertise clear random post moremore interviews photography craft design art science history food animation illustration sculpture installation street art video paper painting architecture animals portraits humor nature drawing books birds anatomy light murals landscapes plants ceramics flowers embroidery miniature collage posters and prints glass surreal membership events archive about projects contact advertise clear advertise on colossal with nectar ads. colossal is hosted by (mt) media temple vps hosting editor’s picks: art highlights below. for the full collection click here. striking portraits featuring powerful women of color painted by artist tim okamura figures from classical paintings experience contemporary life in collages by alexey kondakov hand-stitched photographs by diane meyer mimic the opacity and divisiveness of the berlin wall a multicolored library of the world’s ochre pigments archived by heidi gustafson 120,000 ribbons wave across the former footprint of the berlin wall in an installation marking 30 years since the peaceful revolution painting with code: ui engineer diana smith creates baroque-inspired portraits with css see the rest of the collection ›› ﻿ art history #art history human figures removed from classic paintings by artist josé manuel ballester march 23, 2020 grace ebert leonardo da vinci’s “the last supper” (1498) despite being a couple of years old, josé manuel ballester’s artworks feel eerily familiar in the time of covid-19. the spanish artist recreates classic paintings like goya’s “the third of may 1808,” vermeer’s “the allegory of painting,” and botticelli’s “the birth of venus,” except he leaves out one central aspect: humans. some of ballester’s digital versions retain remnants of the former subjects, showing blood-covered ground marking the spot of a gruesome battle or even a faint outline of the sitter in an unfinished portrait. other works, however, seem to exist simply on their own, offering a view of an empty gallery or a wreckage on rough waters. in an interview with bored panda, ballester said that while his concealed spaces series often is regarded as humorous, it has multiple meanings. “after a deeper look it’s not difficult to find transcendence and the multiple possible interpretations, both as new images and as related to their original counterparts,” he said. one of the clearest aspects in this series is the way we can understand art from the point of view of each period, which has a unique way of looking and understanding reality shared by artists, who develop their creativity inside those period’s values and connect with ideas and universal precepts extended in time. for more of ballester’s digital creations that reconsider historical projects, check out his site. (via this isn’t happiness) diego velázquez’s “las meninas” (1656) sandro botticelli’s “the birth of venus” (c.1486) jan vermeer’s “the allegory of painting” (1668) pablo picasso’s “guernica” (1937) francisco goya’s “the third of may 1808” (1814) théodore géricault’s “the raft of medusa” (1819) do stories and artists like this matter to you? become a colossal member and support independent arts publishing. join a community of like-minded readers who are passionate about contemporary art, apply for our annual grant, and get exclusive access to interviews, partner discounts, and event tickets. share this story tweet pin it also on colossal related posts on colossal about art history stones carved to appear like wrinkled fabrics by josé manuel castro lópez inventor spends five years trying to determine if vermeer's paintings are 350-year-old color photos figures from classical paintings experience contemporary life in collages by alexey kondakov artist recreates childhood scribbles as digital illustrations over 20 years later abstract shapes and graffiti-inspired swirls leap off the wall in new three-dimensional murals by peeta trending on colossal membership about archive projects contact join our mailing list first name email address * art in your inbox from colossal colossal daily update (weekdays) best of colossal weekly art digest (tuesdays) five things you should see in nyc (thursdays) five things you should see in la (thursdays) five things you should see in london (thursdays) five things you should see in chicago (thursdays) the colossal shop (occasional) × © 2010-2020 colossal, all rights reserved. we try our best to attribute images, videos, and quotes to their creators and original sources. if you see something on colossal that is misattributed or you would like removed, please contact us. colossal participates in affiliate marketing programs and may earn a commission on sales through links to etsy, bookshop, society6, and various book publishers.