skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search hyper-happiness is physiological currently i feel hyper-happy. why? my physiological strength is off the richter. what is the greatest happiness? to me, all forms of happiness are legitimate. but the better question: what is the hierarchy of happiness. meaning — which happiness reigns supreme? to me, it is the physiological. what is physiology? let me explain. what has to do with the human body? physiology — dealing with growth, and natural organisms. or in more simple terms: anything within your human body is physiological. why focus on physiology? create like today were your last certainly happiness is produced within our bodies. hormones, serotonin, brain-electricity, blood, etc. happiness cannot exist outside of your body. how to better your physiological health it seems the way to make the body stronger: pain, difficulty, challenge as the stimulus to growth and more power. for example: weight-lifting to increase your strength and muscle mass. intermittent fasting: this actually strengthens your body. you will also live longer [hopefully to age 120]. cold training: take cold showers. good to burn off fat [brown adipose tissue, ie. b.a.t.]. i also walk almost around all the time in my t-shirt, even when it is very cold. i push the limits of my cold-resistance to pain, and it has literally built me a thicker skin. henri neck strap (mark iii) shoot fearless > haptic industries creative tools to empower you. haptic industries on amazon > eric kim newsletter free motivation: email address eric kim workshops conquer your fears and meet new peers: april 25-26: chicago conquer composition workshop september 19-20: boston discover your unique voice in photography workshop (new date) november 4-8: havana, cuba travel street photography workshop experience – register intent join ars: the anti-social social media for photographers what do people really think about your photos? arsbeta.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta