home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. we and the color home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style home photography i am an actor by franck bohbot photography i am an actor by franck bohbot reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email “i am an actor”, photographer franck bohbot captures portraits of actors in their places of daily work. our last year’s feature of franck bohbot’s “light on” photo series attracted much attention. from 2013 – 2014, the photographer and visual artist has captured different places and buildings, which perfectly reflect new york city’s unique and charming lifestyle. this time i want to show you a little more of his work. since 2015, the french born creative mind is working on an ongoing project called “i am an actor.” due to the competitive nature of this profession as well as the high costs of living in new york city, most actresses and actors have to devote time to an additional part-time or even full-time job to support themselves. read more below. charlie gillette is an actress and receptionist at a film production company. in collaboration with interviewer philippe ungar, franck bohbot takes pictures of diverse new york city based actresses and actors not on stage, but in their places of daily work. each photograph shows a frozen moment of the actor’s daily life. together with an interview, the series gives personal details and insights into the everyday life of the actor. furthermore, each image explores the idea of playing a role in everyday life just like on stage. you can find much more of the series on franck bohbot’s website, just check it out here. michael jay henry works as actor and divorce mediator. carolina do is working as actress and waitress at an choi bar in new york city. the photo was captured in 2015 by franck bohbot. paul mitchell works as actor and flyer distributor in times square and curriculum writer. jody doo is an actress and preschool teacher. the image was taken by franck bohbot in 2015. laura kamin is working as actress and maitre d’ in new york city. ted jan roberts is a new york based actor and bicycle messenger. nanda valencia is an actress and waitress at a vegan restaurant in new york city. zach wachter works as actor and waiter at a tribeca based japanese restaurant. the photo was taken by franck bohbot in 2015. no ratings yet. please rate this article. rate here: tags actor actors actress actresses franck bohbot i am an actor new york new york city photography reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email dirk petzold of course, we are on instagram: @weandthecolor :) related articlesmore from author illustration illustrations of famous actors by ricardo polo photography parked cars photography by franck bohbot photography velvet snow – photo series in new york city by franck bohbot books light on new york city by franck bohbot motion point and shoot – short film by thomas leisten schneider motion the shoes ‘time to dance’ – music video with jake gyllenhaal leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. current ye@r * leave this field empty email by continuing, you accept the privacy policy editor picks 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 top graphic designers on instagram to follow for creative inspiration popular posts central park infrared/aerochrome photos i am an actor by franck bohbot lane coder – underwater photography popular category design4038 graphic design2565 recommendations1479 branding1427 illustration1384 fonts895 photography892 art880 templates548 about us we and the color is a web magazine for your daily art and design inspiration. we feature outstanding projects of various creative fields. in addition, you can find trendy graphics, templates, and fonts for download. read more here. contact us: meandyou@weandthecolor.com follow us legal information privacy advertisement © copyright 2019 we and the color – all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. by continuing, you are agreeing to our terms of use.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled