login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit chihuahua i can has cheezburger? favorite man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we're all pretty much stuck indoors these days... but what if you absolutely must have those delicious cheesy puffs of perfection, even during a global scale outbreak? we've all been there, we all know just how magical cheetos are. even though hot cheetos are cleary superior. but we're not here to talk about that. one man in mexico came up with a brilliant idea that would get him his cheetos without stepping foot outside. view list repost - vote - recaption comments isolation cute facebook lol chihuahua cheetos funny i can has cheezburger? favorite heart-melting pictures of special needs chihuahua and pigeon who can't fly share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email meet the unlikely duo that has the internet melting! herman (the pigeon) and lundy (the 8-week-old chihuahua), both at the mia foundation, an organization dedicated to giving pets with birth defects across the country a fighting chance. herman is a pigeon who cannot fly, and lundy is a special needs chihuahua. herman and lundy were both placed on the same pillow at the new york-based non-profit and they took to each other right away! "i set herman on a dog bed and started caring for lundy, and i decided to carefully put lundy in the same dog bed next to him," sue rogers, who founded the mia foundation in 2012, told people, of how the adorable friendship moment started. the pics have since gone viral! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww friendship pigeon cute chihuahua love animals i can has cheezburger? favorite woman creates the sweetest little house for her pet chihuahua under the staircase share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email these adorable pictures recently resurfaced, and it's just too cute not to share! when imgur user, fatisbac, went to visit her aunt she couldn't help but notice and fall in love with the tiny home her aunt has created for her beloved chihuahua, poncho. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww cool house cute tiny house chihuahua i can has cheezburger? favorite this guy likes to annoy his chihuahua with farts and even compiled a video out of it share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email only those who have chihuahuas know how funny and cute it is when a chihuahua gets angry/annoyed/scared. that too, if the owner deliberately does it like this guy who loudly farts on purpose when his chihuahua is either busy doing something or taking a nap. and what's funnier is that he records the reaction too. scroll on below and take a look. via: rearfront view list repost - vote - recaption comments owner annoying farts funny video chihuahua video i can has cheezburger? favorite an adorable family of chihuahuas has one unusual leader share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email there is a family of 8 living under one roof in bangkok, thailand. this family is kind, loving, and has one pack's leader who oversees all of the chihuahuas in their endeavors. his name his ritchie the cat who has become a father figure to the chihuahuas and it is clear that he cares deeply for his doggy siblings. while this family has some differences, none of the siblings mind. there is plenty of love shared as you can see from their adorable instagram page. this family is too cute to ignore! view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs dogs photos pack instagram photos chihuahua leader i can has cheezburger? favorite 20 chihuahua memes that are too funny not to laugh at share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email how does a japanese chihuahua say hello? konnichihuahua! sometimes dogs are just the dopiest creatures possible. there is almost no limit to the chaos they create all in an attempt to make the most of life, and try and fail to show you how much they love you by letting you come back to a house that resembles a war zone. yet they are above all just completely innocent, gormless floofs that keep us entertained for hours. keep the jokes coming and laughter rolling with even more hysterical hounds, or take a look at these dogs that literally have no idea they aren't cute little puppers anymore. view list repost - vote - recaption comments hilarious dogs lolz random dog memes funny memes memes lol hilarious memes chihuahua funny jo38ma3 6h2h7q59 smol chihuaha i can has cheezburger? favorite abandoned chihuahua was obese, until new owner came around share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's always sad when an animal is abandoned by someone they trusted. it's even sadder when animals are abandoned, when the owner could have easily done something. view list repost - vote - recaption comments weight loss dogs fat weight chihuahua i can has cheezburger? favorite the worlds coolest rider share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via ladbible repost - vote - recaption comments chihuahua funny video i can has cheezburger? favorite chihuahua makes sweet, sweet love to his favorite toy share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via viralhog repost - vote - recaption comments donald trump chihuahua video humping i can has cheezburger? favorite poppy has the funniest answer to "do you want to go for a walk?" share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via michael tully repost - vote - recaption comments dogs pets walk howling chihuahua funny video i can has cheezburger? favorite this little chihuahua's name is riceball and she has her very own room share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs pets cute chihuahua bedroom i can has cheezburger? favorite super smart chihuahua shows off every trick she knows including "stick 'em up!" share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via rumble viral repost - vote - recaption comments dogs pets smart cute chihuahua trick video i has a hotdog favorite snail and dog - funny pictures share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email see all captions by unknown repost - vote - recaption comments snails dogs what are you chihuahua funny pictures snail i can has cheezburger? favorite when your potato becomes sentient and starts judging you for how many french fries you've eaten today share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via mrtyki repost - vote - recaption comments dogs potato chihuahua i can has cheezburger? favorite tiny sock thief gets caught red handed, but is way too cute to be mad at share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via rumble viral repost - vote - recaption comments dogs stealing socks cute chihuahua video thief i can has cheezburger? favorite chihuahua isn't very happy about the family's new addition share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via rumble viral repost - vote - recaption comments puppy chihuahua angry video upvoted 277 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 220 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 218 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 192 the positive side 184 tiem 2 debug hooman hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 4 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 5 when your cat is a giant battle cat (comics) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter