login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit quarantine i can has cheezburger? favorite dog was so happy his owner is home now that he sprained his tail from too much wagging share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email rolo is a 7-year-old dachshund from the united kingdom. when this good boy realized his owner, emma smith, is staying home due to the coronavirus pandemic, he couldn't contain his excitement and started wagging his tail so much that he, unfortunately, sprained it. his owner twitted the story which was shared by more than 140,000 times and liked by more than 1 million people, including "the morning show" and "friends" star jennifer aniston. smith continued on updating about her happy pooch in the following days and even set up rolo with his own instagram account — rolo.thehotdog — so that interested pup lovers can "follow my journey getting my wag back." view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs tail wagging funny dogs quarantine i can has cheezburger? favorite oreo cat has important messages about life in isolation share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email "all you need is fluff" is the motto of this gorgeous cat from quebec, canada. we totally agree. like all of us, he is in self-isolation with his owner which means more great content for us! besides his awesome inspirational quotes, he also has some important messages to us all. view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny cats cat tweets quarantine cats i can has cheezburger? favorite self- isolation day 9: people play tic-tac-toe with their pets share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email some people are totally losing it. up to the point, they are playing tic-tac-toe with their pets. and yes, it's just going as well as you'd expected. view list repost - vote - recaption comments pets quarantine animal tweets funny animals animals i can has cheezburger? favorite best of last week's quarantined cats (tweets) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email has it been a full week since we've self-quarantined? it seriously feels like forever. what day is it even? we can't seem to tell how long it's been but all we know is the hashtag #quarantinecats has been a silver lining in a sea of stormy clouds. excuse us, the virus has somehow made us feel quite poetic. we scrolled through the very best cats in quarantine and gathered them all here for your viewing pleasure. you're very welcome. keep the hashtag alive! how are your furbabies doing on day __ of quarantine? seriously, what day is it? view list repost - vote - recaption comments best lol tweets quarantine funny tweets cats animals i can has cheezburger? favorite day 6 in quarantine: the cat tries to chase his tail share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via sho ko repost - vote - recaption did you think only humans are bored during quarantine? well, think again! one thing is for sure- we wouldn't mind staying at home for 2 weeks with these two. comments funny cats quarantine cat videos cats coronavirus i can has cheezburger? favorite genius people who came up with creative ways to fight off boredom (tweets) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email these people sure are living their quarantine life to the fullest with all kinds of funny and creative ideas, using their pets as the main tool. thank you, the people of twitter, for this wholesome content! view list repost - vote - recaption comments boredom quarantine funny tweets funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite mega-binge: wholesome animals (70 tweets, memes, stories) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's important to stay optimistic during these really bizarre and slightly terrifying times. we all need to remember the beauty of this world, the people and animals that make it so beautiful, and to never take it for granted again. thankfully, we still have each other and we still have the internet that is jam-packed with wholesomeness. let this list bring some light to you. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww wholesome optimism cute memes positive tweets quarantine binge stories animals i can has cheezburger? favorite cats in ties is the new dress code for cats working from home share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email meet the new kitties of wall street! it seems like people dressing up their pets is going to be a whole subset of content from this #quarantine. we would like to hire your cat. does he know how to use excel? and yes, a raise is immediately granted. view list repost - vote - recaption comments tie funny cats quarantine cat photos cats coronavirus i can has cheezburger? favorite anthony hopkins plays the piano for his cat while in isolation share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ok. we've seen many famous musicians playing their music online while in quarantine but anthony hopkins has definitely outlived them all by playing his piano for his adorable cat, niblo, while they are both in self-isolation. as you can see from the video, the feline is relaxed on his lap, enjoying the performance and reacts with some lovely, heavy purring. the 82-year-old actor shared the video on his instagram page and it was a great chance to scroll through some of their photos together. view list repost - vote - recaption comments piano cute quarantine cats anthony hopkins i can has cheezburger? favorite twelve delightful tweets from 'thoughts of dog' share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email 2020 may seem like a really, really rough start to the new decade we were once so hopeful about. luckily, we can always count on our favorite doggo to bring us a new perspective on things and make us realize... life ain't so bad. just gotta be optimistic and perhaps take a lesson from 'thoughts of dog.' view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs quarantined twitter 2020 tweets quarantine funny tweets thoughts of dog i can has cheezburger? favorite wildlife animals are roaming the streets during coronavirus quarantine share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email in a time when many countries in the world are under quarantine or lockdown, nature continues its thing and wildlife animals are adjusting to the new and unexpected human absence. in countries like japan, italy, and thailand, people observed animals roaming the streets freely and shared some of the photos and videos on social media. people usually responded either in shock or awe. view list repost - vote - recaption comments quarantine wildlife coronavirus animals i can has cheezburger? favorite with their humans being constantly at home, cats have varied reactions (tweets) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email while you're in self-isolation at home, why don't you take some inspiration from our cool friends who can totally keep you company and definitely make you laugh during these rough days. twitter user @elle_em asked people to send photos and updates on how their cats are reacting these days and got a bunch of fun reactions. view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny cats quarantine cats coronavirus williamkeckler favorite it's in everyone's best interest share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email see all captions by williamkeckler repost - vote - recaption your enthusiasm is contagious. please quarantine yourself. comments cat enthusiasm go away grumpy i can has cheezburger no no one cares quarantine upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter