login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit cats the finest cats on the internet i can has cheezburger? favorite when your cat is a giant battle cat (comics) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ever wondered how your life would look like if your cat wasn't a cute furry ball but a giant battle cat? well, this comic artist did it for you. view list repost - vote - recaption comments battle cats web comics i can has cheezburger? favorite meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ready to smile? each week we are featuring the newly adopted pets of the week! is there a lovelier sight than an animal being adopted?! we wholeheartedly thank those who have adopted, providing animals with a loving, comfortable and warm home. there's literally nothing better. we're seeing a lot of new furry faces being adopted due to the new regulations, and while we absolutely adore seeing so many adopted faces, please remember that a pet is for life. the decision to adopt one is one that should be thought through thoroughly. for those of you who are thinking about getting a pet, just remember; adopt, don't shop. if you recently adopted a pet, shoot us an email to be featured in next weeks list! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww adopt shelter dogs adoption adopted cats animals rescue i can has cheezburger? favorite top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email huzzah! it's the moment we've all been waiting for -- cheezburger's classic lolcats! your ultimate source for the newest, and cutest, cat memes! all of which are created by our every own users! if you want to check out more cat memes that we know will make you laugh, check out lolcat. if you have some funny ideas and would like to submit them, take a look at our meme builder. we love our users original cat memes! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww lolcats cute memes lol cats funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite owlkitty parody's netflix's 'the witcher' (video share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via owlkitty repost - vote - recaption toss a cat to your witcher! oh valley of plenty! what better way to distract ourselves than to immerse ourselves in the world of owlkitty? truthfully, we can think of nothing better. thanks for the laughs, owlkitty! who know 'the witcher' would be so magical with you in it? comments youtube parody the witcher lol witcher owlkitty netflix cats funny video geralt i can has cheezburger? favorite new 'pixie and brutus' comic delivers much-needed wholesomeness share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email pixie has found herself a cardboard box that is just the purrfect size for a new luxurious home, filled with precious treasure! for those of you unfamiliar with the comic series, pixie and brutus is about a retired veteran dog (brutus) and his wholesome relationship with an innocent kitten (pixie). created by the talented pet_foolery, if you're not following on instagram -- you're missing out! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww wholesome comics cute pixie and brutus cats animals i can has cheezburger? favorite tumblr page offers photos of cats posing like super models share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the tumblr page, supermodels cats, is our new favorite place for photos of truly photogenic cats. so, if you want to show off your beautiful furry friend, just send a photo. check out these gorgeous felines just sitting there posing beautifully to the camera. we just can't get enough. view list repost - vote - recaption comments cat photos cats super model i can has cheezburger? favorite disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email what a wonderfully magical black cat! meet lucifer, or lucik, a disabled cat that helps sick pets fight their ailments and get better! in an animal clinic called klyk, located in perm, russia, lucik is their furry nursing assistant who takes part in everything that's happening with both doctors and patients. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww cat clinic comfort disabled amazing support cats animals black cat i can has cheezburger? favorite cats may be the real culprits of the toilet paper crisis (adorable video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via amitliz_art // cheezburger repost - vote - recaption with the world going in a frenzy to get a well stock supply of that hot commodity we call toilet paper, many with cats forgot a very golden rule...hide the precious and expensive load before your cat gets to it because one thing is for certain, cats do not care about your precious toilet paper! need more fun videos? cheezburger's youtube channel is full of them! comments lolcats animation adorable comics cute lol funny cats cats funny web comics i can has cheezburger? favorite video binge delight share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we've scoured our archives to deliver to you, our users the best 10 videos from our site! so take a break from all that netflix and hulu and binge on some adorable animal videos! view list repost - vote - recaption comments lolcats dogs adorable animal videos videos cute lol cats funny i can has cheezburger? favorite cuteness coma: baby kitten dreaming (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via pawmeow repost - vote - recaption let the relaxing music lull you into ease and let the insanely adorable kitten melt your heart until it becomes nothing more than a gooey messy on the floor. this video is by pawmeow, an oridinary couple with a big dream to provide for stray cats in bulgaria. thank you pawmeow, for your caring hearts. comments aww baby youtube kitten cute dreaming cats video animals cuteness overload i can has cheezburger? favorite chonky cats who are eating too much during these quarantine days at home share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email when people (and their cats) are mere feet away from the fridge and a bunker's worth of groceries, quarantine boredom can lead to overeating. just take a look at these chonky boys. view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny cats cat photos chonky cats i can has cheezburger? favorite animals of instagram spotlight of the week: lucy, the bat cat share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email once a week, we will be featuring an extraordinary animal account on instagram! their story, the adorable pictures, and pawesome videos! this week's spotlight goes to lucy, the bat cat! lucy is a sphynx cat who suffers from a rare condition called hydrocephalus. hydrocephalus is when spinal fluid builds up on the brain, creating pressure on lucy's brain. due to her condition, lucy was not up for sale and when zilla bergamini first saw lucy, she was absolutely smitten and asked if she could adopt the special needs kitten. "i began reading everything i could about hydrocephalus and all possible outcomes, i looked for the best veterinarian neurological center in the country, and i already started setting up a fund to pay for her surgery — if needed — or medication," zilla told meowaf. and when lucy reached the age of two months, she arrived at her new home in haifa, israel. zilla was excited for lucy's arrival but also quite nervous about caring for a kitty with such a serious neurological condition. "she was loved before coming to me," zilla continued, "but her future was uncertain." but despite this, zilla says lucy's life is pretty normal! now, lucy loves going on adventures with her family, spending time with outdoors and with people! and due to lucy's unique looks that clearly resemble that of a bat's -- she has become a sensation on instagram with a following of over 25k! keep living life to the fullest, little lucy! view list repost - vote - recaption comments pics cat instagram cats lucy sphynx video animals bat i can has cheezburger? favorite hotel offers free cat sitting services for owners hospitalized with covid-19 share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email judith quinlan is the proud owner of victoria cat hotel, a cat-sitting service, in victoria, british columbia. after getting many cancellations amid the covid-19 pandemic, she decided to put the space to good use. great initiative, judith! view list repost - vote - recaption comments hotel heartwarming cats coronavirus i can has cheezburger? favorite fifty cat tweets to take your mind off the news share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email when it's time for self-isolation, you can always count on twitter to find the light during our darkest times. take these cat tweets for example. they are all you need in order to entertain yourself because we know everyone could use a good laugh right now. so, grab some snacks and get ready for some serious fun. view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny cats cat tweets animal tweets cats i can has cheezburger? favorite gentle cat vids providing a moment of peace share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email hooray -- more cat videos to help distract us from the intense cabin fever that's been not-so-slowly building up! we all know that petting a cat has a therapeutic effect on our bodies, it's probably safe to say that watching cat videos will have similar effects on our bodies, mind and soul. one can hope, anyways. so, deep breathe in and deep breathe out. settle in and relax with some gentle cat videos. view list repost - vote - recaption comments cat gifs videos cats animals i can has cheezburger? favorite oreo cat has important messages about life in isolation share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email "all you need is fluff" is the motto of this gorgeous cat from quebec, canada. we totally agree. like all of us, he is in self-isolation with his owner which means more great content for us! besides his awesome inspirational quotes, he also has some important messages to us all. view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny cats cat tweets quarantine cats upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter