login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit psa i can has cheezburger? favorite psa share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via spiritdog training repost - vote - recaption comments puppy psa helpful i can has cheezburger? favorite artist accurately portrays importance of giving cats their space share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email some cats are more social than others and you can play with them all day! that's not the case for all cats, however. cats are mostly independent animals, who will come seek you out when they want your love and attention. to chase and force love upon them (though, most of us are guilty of this) will likely cause them to run and hide. popular artist @whatsupbeanie portrays the importance of giving our beloved cats the space they need, and did so beautifully. written in the description for the follow comic, beanie wrote, " loved rosa (her cat) so much but was wayyy too energetic and crazy for the poor cat to handle at first. i was much more used to playing with dogs but once i learnt the right approach we got along very well. i miss her." if you have children, be sure you teach them how to respect animals and to give space when needed! view list repost - vote - recaption comments important art psa instagram artist comics cats space i can has cheezburger? favorite important tumblr thread on kids respecting animals share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email while it may seem obvious to some to teach their kids to respect animals, others out there will simply allow their kids to unknowingly torrent the animals they come into contact with. when that is the case, it's completely unfair to blame anything that happens entirely on the animal. it's human nature to lash out if you're being used as play-thing instead of a living-thing. this tumblr thread dives into the topic more. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs respect important thread tumblr kids psa cats animals i can has cheezburger? favorite psa share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via u/bpdprisoner repost - vote - recaption comments important psa essential oils health cats i can has cheezburger? favorite reminder share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via oldgoatguy repost - vote - recaption comments psa reminder cold weather cats i can has cheezburger? favorite psa: warning toxic blue-green algae showing up in lakes across the us share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's been a really hot summer, you wake up one morning and it's just too hot.. you decide to take your beloved pet to the lake to cool off because you're a great dog owner. never in a million years would you think that one day of fun in the lake would be their last. warning these will be difficult stories to read, but we are sharing them in hopes of spreading awareness of toxic blue-green algae, and maybe save the lives of other pups and their unsuspecting owners. toxic blue-green algae have been showing up in lakes across the us, and have already taken some of the beloved furbabies out there. story via wide on pets view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs beware toxic psa lakes blue-green algae i can has cheezburger? favorite owner of cat who nearly died due to salt poisoning is warning others about the dangers of salt lamps! share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email if you have a salt lamp in your house, and you are a pet owner -- you'll want to read this! it could just save your pets life! when this cat owner woke up and noticed her cat was acting a bit strange, they didn't think much of it and then the cats' health began to deteriorate fast -- they rushed the cat to hospital and there it was discovered that the owners had unintentionally had a product out that was poisoning their precious cat! source via rose avenue pet hospital / facebook view list repost - vote - recaption comments salt lamp dogs pets psa kitten salt poisoning cats dangerous i can has cheezburger? favorite just a reminder! share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via pinterest repost - vote - recaption comments psa funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite 6 pet safety tips this thanksgiving weekend to keep your loved ones safe and healthy share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email keep your loved ones healthy this weekend, and review these thanksgiving safety tips for pets. you can find out more at iamonitor.com. view list repost - vote - recaption comments important reminder tips thanksgiving psa safety tips i can has cheezburger? favorite an important message for anyone who may have given or received a pet for christmas share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via cole and marmalade repost - vote - recaption pets are furever! comments christmas pets psa video the daily what favorite cats overload the internet to draw attention to crowded shelters share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via mashable repost - vote - recaption happy kitten season! while that may sound like a lovely time of year, filled with fluffy tummies and tiny meows, it actually refers to the time of year when animal shelters are hit the hardest. around this time is when all of those amorous cats who copulated over the spring have their litters. many don't have happy healthy homes and so are stuck within shelters. mashable introduced an irl cat video to help draw attention to the need for rescue help. while there's definitely enough space for infinite cats on the internet, finding space in animal shelters is a different story. mashable teamed up with aspca to shed light on "kitten season." between the months of april and october, shelters across the country find themselves flooded with kittens in desperate need of homes. to get involved, whether you're looking to volunteer, donate or adopt, visit an animal shelter near you. if you need a new friend or know someone who does, you can find the nearest shelter here. you actually can make this a happy kitten season for yourself. go and rescue! comments psa internet kitten aspca animal shelter cats animal comedy favorite for the record share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email see all captions by unknown repost - vote - recaption comments psa you dont say warthog lolcats favorite watch apple cook share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via new york city coalition against hunger repost - vote - recaption comments cooking psa cute food cats video furrgetmenot favorite reality hits us hard sometimes... share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email see all captions by furrgetmenot repost - vote - recaption comments hampsters psa not what you expect sylviag favorite public service announcement share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email see all captions by sylviag repost - vote - recaption comments melting heat psa funny furrgetmenot favorite hotdog's psa from hot dogs everywhere share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email see all captions by furrgetmenot repost - vote - recaption comments pets car psa hotdogs upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter