login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit animals i can has cheezburger? favorite cheeto the raccoon meets ferrets (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via tito the raccoon repost - vote - recaption there's something oddly satisfying about animals bonding with other species. maybe it helps paint a picture of what the world could be. or maybe it's just too overwhelmingly cute to see two adorable creatures come together. either way, we would watch cheeto interacting with ferrets all day if we could! this video shows cheetos very first time meeting ferrets! stay to say it went pretty well! comments aww youtube ferrets cute raccoons video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ready to smile? each week we are featuring the newly adopted pets of the week! is there a lovelier sight than an animal being adopted?! we wholeheartedly thank those who have adopted, providing animals with a loving, comfortable and warm home. there's literally nothing better. we're seeing a lot of new furry faces being adopted due to the new regulations, and while we absolutely adore seeing so many adopted faces, please remember that a pet is for life. the decision to adopt one is one that should be thought through thoroughly. for those of you who are thinking about getting a pet, just remember; adopt, don't shop. if you recently adopted a pet, shoot us an email to be featured in next weeks list! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww adopt shelter dogs adoption adopted cats animals rescue i can has cheezburger? favorite top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email huzzah! it's the moment we've all been waiting for -- cheezburger's classic lolcats! your ultimate source for the newest, and cutest, cat memes! all of which are created by our every own users! if you want to check out more cat memes that we know will make you laugh, check out lolcat. if you have some funny ideas and would like to submit them, take a look at our meme builder. we love our users original cat memes! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww lolcats cute memes lol cats funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite new 'pixie and brutus' comic delivers much-needed wholesomeness share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email pixie has found herself a cardboard box that is just the purrfect size for a new luxurious home, filled with precious treasure! for those of you unfamiliar with the comic series, pixie and brutus is about a retired veteran dog (brutus) and his wholesome relationship with an innocent kitten (pixie). created by the talented pet_foolery, if you're not following on instagram -- you're missing out! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww wholesome comics cute pixie and brutus cats animals i can has cheezburger? favorite animals who forgot to schedule a hair appointment before going into self-isolation share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email while preparing for the unknown self-quarantine episode at home, some animals have forgotten one minor detail- scheduling a hair appointment before its too late. these animals don't look too happy about having their picture taken at the moment. it would've been kind to give them five more minutes to do something with that mop. it surely won't be a hit with the ladies. view list repost - vote - recaption comments animal photos bad hair day funny animals animals i can has cheezburger? favorite squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's a beautiful day for frolicking in the dog park! just kidding, no one is allowed out and we've been cooped up indoors for over a week, and others for way longer... but where is your imagination? regardless of our current whereabouts, one thing we can always count on is doggo memes to lift our spirits! every week we have fresh hot doggo memes delivered straight to your face and to your heart (insert loud 'aww' sound here.) so take a moment to sit back and relax, and enjoy all the good bois and girls this list has to offer! and just in case you're having a ruff day and need an extra lift, check out these doggo memes -- that should cure just about anything. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs cute memes doggo lol doggo memes funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email what a wonderfully magical black cat! meet lucifer, or lucik, a disabled cat that helps sick pets fight their ailments and get better! in an animal clinic called klyk, located in perm, russia, lucik is their furry nursing assistant who takes part in everything that's happening with both doctors and patients. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww cat clinic comfort disabled amazing support cats animals black cat i can has cheezburger? favorite cuteness coma: baby kitten dreaming (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via pawmeow repost - vote - recaption let the relaxing music lull you into ease and let the insanely adorable kitten melt your heart until it becomes nothing more than a gooey messy on the floor. this video is by pawmeow, an oridinary couple with a big dream to provide for stray cats in bulgaria. thank you pawmeow, for your caring hearts. comments aww baby youtube kitten cute dreaming cats video animals cuteness overload i can has cheezburger? favorite photos that say more than just a thousand words share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ready for your weekly dose of amazing animal photos? these are sure worth your time. here's a link to our previous list, in case you missed it. view list repost - vote - recaption comments nature animal photos animals i can has cheezburger? favorite animals of instagram spotlight of the week: lucy, the bat cat share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email once a week, we will be featuring an extraordinary animal account on instagram! their story, the adorable pictures, and pawesome videos! this week's spotlight goes to lucy, the bat cat! lucy is a sphynx cat who suffers from a rare condition called hydrocephalus. hydrocephalus is when spinal fluid builds up on the brain, creating pressure on lucy's brain. due to her condition, lucy was not up for sale and when zilla bergamini first saw lucy, she was absolutely smitten and asked if she could adopt the special needs kitten. "i began reading everything i could about hydrocephalus and all possible outcomes, i looked for the best veterinarian neurological center in the country, and i already started setting up a fund to pay for her surgery — if needed — or medication," zilla told meowaf. and when lucy reached the age of two months, she arrived at her new home in haifa, israel. zilla was excited for lucy's arrival but also quite nervous about caring for a kitty with such a serious neurological condition. "she was loved before coming to me," zilla continued, "but her future was uncertain." but despite this, zilla says lucy's life is pretty normal! now, lucy loves going on adventures with her family, spending time with outdoors and with people! and due to lucy's unique looks that clearly resemble that of a bat's -- she has become a sensation on instagram with a following of over 25k! keep living life to the fullest, little lucy! view list repost - vote - recaption comments pics cat instagram cats lucy sphynx video animals bat i can has cheezburger? favorite good vibes: very good things that happened this week (tweets) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email when the world is all chaotic around us, here are some positive things that happened this week which will uplift and inspire you to become more optimistic. so are you ready for some smiles? view list repost - vote - recaption comments cute animals animal tweets funny animals animals i can has cheezburger? favorite adorable fluffy alpaca lives in the city with two guys (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via sbs tv동물농장x애니멀봐 repost - vote - recaption um, we have never wanted an alpaca as a pet as badly as we do after watching this! meet the cutest alpaca around -- paca! she's a girl and around 1-years-old. for being a youngling, she certain has some good manners! she seems very well-trained (for the most part), she can kiss on demand and even bow in respect! prepare to fall head over heels for paca! comments manners aww adorable alpaca youtube awesome cute trained video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite gentle cat vids providing a moment of peace share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email hooray -- more cat videos to help distract us from the intense cabin fever that's been not-so-slowly building up! we all know that petting a cat has a therapeutic effect on our bodies, it's probably safe to say that watching cat videos will have similar effects on our bodies, mind and soul. one can hope, anyways. so, deep breathe in and deep breathe out. settle in and relax with some gentle cat videos. view list repost - vote - recaption comments cat gifs videos cats animals i can has cheezburger? favorite time to take in the weekly dose of cute (#75) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email once a week, your cuteness prescription will always be automatically refilled for your viewing pleasure! nothing -- and we mean nothing brings on those warm mushy feeling like a huge dose of animal cuteness! we scoured the internet to bring you the cutest animal pictures of the week! bringing you cuteness every week - stay tuned for next week's dose! if you missed last week's dose, and you need a cuteness overload, check out last week's here. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs adorable cute cats animals cuteness overload i can has cheezburger? favorite self- isolation day 9: people play tic-tac-toe with their pets share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email some people are totally losing it. up to the point, they are playing tic-tac-toe with their pets. and yes, it's just going as well as you'd expected. view list repost - vote - recaption comments pets quarantine animal tweets funny animals animals i can has cheezburger? favorite best of last week's quarantined cats (tweets) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email has it been a full week since we've self-quarantined? it seriously feels like forever. what day is it even? we can't seem to tell how long it's been but all we know is the hashtag #quarantinecats has been a silver lining in a sea of stormy clouds. excuse us, the virus has somehow made us feel quite poetic. we scrolled through the very best cats in quarantine and gathered them all here for your viewing pleasure. you're very welcome. keep the hashtag alive! how are your furbabies doing on day __ of quarantine? seriously, what day is it? view list repost - vote - recaption comments best lol tweets quarantine funny tweets cats animals upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter