login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit movies i can has cheezburger? favorite netflix & binge share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email netflix has an extremely large selection, so we've narrowed it down. here are the top 10 animal binge-worthy on netflix view list repost - vote - recaption comments movies binge netflix i can has cheezburger? favorite man takes his hedgehog to go see "sonic the hedgehog" in theaters share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email dreams really do come true! bandit the hedgehog was able to see her idol -- sonic -- on the big screen! twitter user jake & bandit, shared adorable pics of bandit right beside the sonic cardboard cutouts! the tweet obviously went viral because who wouldn't want to see a hedgehog posing with sonic the hedgehog? everyone wants to see that! the tweet also sparked some other users to share pics of their adorable hedgehogs! so, all in all, we say this was an excellent thread. you can now follow bandit on instagram! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww sonic the hedgehog movies cute hedgehog animals i can has cheezburger? favorite owners photoshop their adorable corgi into 2019's best movie posters share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email every year, these talented owners are photoshopping their adorable fluffy corgi, maxin, into all the different movie posters from the previous year. here is a pawsome collection of posters you will definitely like. for more corgi fun, visit maxin's instagram page. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs movie poster movies photoshop corgi i can has cheezburger? favorite 'cats' the movie reviews are here and clear share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email 'cats' is officially out in theaters and with that comes the the reviews! we can't say we're particularly surprised by the reviews but we are surprised just how much we enjoyed reading the reviews! with a rating of 16% of rotten tomatoes, you can guarantee the reviews will be quite possible the best part of the movie. view list repost - vote - recaption comments reviews movies lol tweets funny tweets cats funny i can has cheezburger? favorite new "cats" movie trailer unleashed some funny comments on twitter share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the tom hooper-directed movie-musical dropped its second trailer, featuring a star-studded cast competing for a "new life." right after it was released, things took a funny turn...cats will premiere on december 20. view list repost - vote - recaption comments movie trailer movies funny cats cats cat memes i can has cheezburger? favorite some animals can definitely star in the movies share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email animals have a range array of emotions and sometimes, we're able to capture that moment! that moment where they look like they star in a comedy, or drama, or even an action film! their range can even beat some hooman actors! here are 21 animals who look like they could star in a film! view list repost - vote - recaption comments movie stars movies cute funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite 7 new-ish videos from owl kitty you might have not seen yet and absolutely must share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email if you aren't following owlkitty on instagram, you're truly missing out on some of the funniest cat parody out there! who is owlkitty? owlkitty is a stage name for lizzy, a two year-old cat living in portland, oregon. she is star you see below, placed in all your favorite films. don't worry about her being a hard worker, she gets lots of treats and cuddles in return. lizzy, off-screen, loves playing with her laser pointer and with her adoptive mother juliette, a 10 year-old tabby. fun fact about lizzy, she's never caught a bird. learn all about owlkitty and the incredible screen effect process here! view list repost - vote - recaption comments owl kitty movies parody lol owlkitty cats funny i can has cheezburger? favorite "does the dog die" website will warn you of disturbing animal scenes in movies, tv and books share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email if you get easily "triggered," or infused with anxiety when you watch something distressing that happens to animals on screen, then, doesthedogdie.com is probably a website that you will want to check out. the website crowdsources emotional spoilers for movies, tv, books and more under different categories, one of them is animal abuse. here are some of their recent spoilers. view list repost - vote - recaption comments animal cruelty spoilers movies tv books animals i can has cheezburger? favorite 5 movies to watch on netflix with your pet on national popcorn day share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's national popcorn day and we're here with some reccomendations for a netflix& chill session with your pet. you don't have to worry about them talking throughout the movie or taking up too much space on the couch. if anything, their only mission is to get as close to you as possible and stay that way for as long as you allow them to. movie watching with your pet is a time for bonding and simply enjoying each other's company. and of course, don't forget the popcorn! via: elite daily view list repost - vote - recaption comments pets movies netflix and chill popcorn netflix i can has cheezburger? favorite goose the cat has a captain marvel poster and people are excited share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email with 50 days until the captain marvel premiere comes new character posters including a purrfect goose feature. people on twitter can't hold on their excitement... view list repost - vote - recaption comments movie poster movies captain marvel cats i can has cheezburger? favorite an iranian film maker shares a thread about his deaf cat fixated by a movie share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email former village voice film critic @bilgeebiridescribed how his cat, vixen, who is deaf, became transfixed by the film 24 frames by the late director abbas kiarostami. the idea of pets being drawn to landscapes and animals on screen proved relatable. view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter thread movies film deaf cats hypnotic animals i can has cheezburger? favorite deer poacher received an unusual punishment of having to watch "bambi" monthly n prison share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email in what is being referred to as one of the largest deer poaching cases in missouri history, david berry jr. has been ordered to watch bambi at least monthly during his 120-day sentence. view list repost - vote - recaption comments court movies poacher deer bambi punishment i can has cheezburger? favorite how bugs are trained for tv and movies share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via insider repost - vote - recaption movies will often use live bugs on camera instead of cgi to make their story feel more real and to get your skin crawling. but getting these insects to do what you want requires lots an understanding of how they function. that's where steven kutcher comes in. he's an entomologist who has worked with insects on over 100 major projects including "spider-man, "arachnophobia," and "jurassic park." the insider teamspoke with kutcher about how he gets these tiny actors to do what the directors want and how no one gets hurt during the production. comments bugs trainer tv shows movies i can has cheezburger? favorite we're pretty sure these 17 animals could be a great movie villains share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email as far as we are concerned, they are ready for an audition...what do you think? via: the cutesy pooh view list repost - vote - recaption comments photos movies villains funny photos animals i can has cheezburger? favorite these funny movie poster mash ups prove animals do make everything better share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email view list repost - vote - recaption comments instagram movies movie posters animals i can has cheezburger? favorite dog gets his own epic movie trailer share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email @kirstycapes has an adorable doggo. so cute in fact that her boyfriend decided to produced a fake action movie trailer for a very good dog...and all we can say is "we want a full length movie!" view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter dogs trailer movies cute funny video upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter