login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit cute animals i can has cheezburger? favorite seal rescue charity in ireland posts photos of the cutest sea chonks share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email seal rescue ireland is a charity that works around the clock to rescue, rehabilitate and release imperiled seals from across ireland, as well as to promote ocean conservation. they also have an awesome instagram page where they upload heart-melting photos of rescued seals we thought might be of interest to you. view list repost - vote - recaption comments animal photos seals cute animals cute i can has cheezburger? favorite good vibes: very good things that happened this week (tweets) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email when the world is all chaotic around us, here are some positive things that happened this week which will uplift and inspire you to become more optimistic. so are you ready for some smiles? view list repost - vote - recaption comments cute animals animal tweets funny animals animals i can has cheezburger? favorite the evolution which allowed sloths to be so slow share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via ted ed repost - vote - recaption sloths are our animal spirit. all they do all day is eating, sleeping and taking a bath once a week. but what made these creatures so low on energy? kenny coogan from ted ed explains the physical and behavioral mechanisms that led to their current official position as the slowest animals on earth. comments cute animals sloths animal video i can has cheezburger? favorite the awww factor: five adorable pigs and one cute pug are taking a bath together share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email view this post on instagram a post shared by prissy and pop (@prissy_pig) on feb 29, 2020 at 7:54am pst via prissy_pig repost - vote - recaption can you even think of anything cuter than that? this video of five pigs and one pug going rub a dub dub with their shower cups on, will make your heart sing out loud. comments pug pig cute animals animal video funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite quarantine time: animal planet will air 94-hour marathon of puppies and kittens share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email you are probably all familiar with animal planet's show, "too cute!". the show allows its viewers a rare glimpse into the world of puppies and kittens with unprecedented footage and never-before-seen clips of the early lives of dogs and cats and the materials are just too cute! it is a world where cuddly knows no bounds and a place where fluffy reigns supreme. and now, when social distancing forces us all to stay at home, the channel announced they will air a 94-hour marathon of all this cute content in order to make these rough days so much easier. and honestly, that is exactly what we need right now. view list repost - vote - recaption comments puppies kitten cute animals animal video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite adorable puppy attacks himself in mirror share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via cheezburger repost - vote - recaption it's something special when an animal sees a reflection of themselves for the first time. it might be that they too start to believe that they are incredibly adorable just like how we see them! want to see more videos? cheezburger's youtube channel is loaded with them! youtube channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/uc7yaj-nrergy28nxi9-v1rg? comments dogs adorable puppy cute animals cute lol funny i can has cheezburger? favorite penguins roam freely in the chicago's aquarium after it was closed amid the coronavirus outbreak share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the shedd aquarium in chicago has been locked down like many other places in the us amid the covid-19 outbreak. but the managers of the place just provided us with the much needed bright spot we all need these days - the cutest videos of their penguins roaming around the entire aquarium and meeting their animal roommates. and that's what we call a great opportunity for a penguin party! the aquarium tweeted that without guests in the building, their animal caretakers are planning even more creative activities for the penguins and other animals. so stay tuned! view list repost - vote - recaption comments penguins aquarium cute animals cute coronavirus i can has cheezburger? favorite oliver, the adventurous ferret, loves to hike and kayak across the country share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email many pets around the world adopt an adventurous life while embracing the great outdoors. oliver, the hiking ferret from denver, colorado, wasn't destined for a life dedicated to relaxation. not too long after his owner, lauren smith adopted him, she knew she is dealing with a very energetic pet. so, instead of watching him digging up another couch, she decided to introduce him with the beautiful outdoors in order to help him do something more constructive with all this energy: "i figured if it worked to take a dog out for a walk to burn off some energy, why couldn't the same work for a ferret? i began by just getting him used to wear his harness, which was a feat that involved a lot of treats," smith told people. from there, they started the process of turning little oliver into a well-trained outdoorsman, step by step. smith started taking him to short walks at the local parks around her home but soon, oliver was begging for more: "he has gotten to where he will ask to go out with me by running and standing by my front door whenever he hears it opening," smith said. now, the 4-year-old ferret is a pro! he enjoys snowy mountain climbs, kayak rides, and sand desert frolics, and all is documented on his instagram page. view list repost - vote - recaption comments ferret hiking animal photos cute animals i can has cheezburger? favorite mother's love: magical photos of polar bear cubs playing with their moms share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email they say there is nothing as powerful as mother's love and these beautiful photos are here to prove it but also to melt your heart. just look at these cute faces having fun with their moms. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww animal photos polar bear cute animals i can has cheezburger? favorite photos that say more than just a thousand words share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ready for your weekly dose of amazing animal photos? these are sure worth your time. here's a link to our previous list, in case you missed it. view list repost - vote - recaption comments animal photos cute animals amazing photos animals i can has cheezburger? favorite rare orchid species that look like tiny monkey faces share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email there are a rare orchid species in the cloud forests of central and south america that mimic the shape of a monkey's body. that's right, a monkey. according to wikipedia, the "monkey orchids" can be found in ecuador and peru, where they are referred to as the dracula simia which literally means "dragon monkey." the unique orchids got their unique "monkey faces" from the combination of flower petals and stamens and they smell like a lovely burst ripe oranges. they were first discovered in 1978 and can grow up to two feet tall. just take a look at these cute little flowers. view list repost - vote - recaption comments cute animals flowers monkey orchid i can has cheezburger? favorite photos that say more than just a thousand words share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ready for your weekly dose of amazing animal photos? these are sure worth your time. here's a link to our previous list, in case you missed it. view list repost - vote - recaption comments animal photos cute animals animals i can has cheezburger? favorite two adorable guinea pigs chatting about their daily lives share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email these two guinea pigs who are the cutest pair of talking animals we have seen lately! the things they talk about are hilarious - from food, relationship with their parents, moving to a new home, bath time and even dating girls! these brothers sure have an interesting life. two words: cuteness overload! view list repost - vote - recaption comments guinea pigs pig cute animals cute animal talk i can has cheezburger? favorite the "oh to be" meme has finally arrived at the animal kingdom (tweets) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email recently, a new meme format using the phrase, "oh to be" has been making the rounds on twitter. the memes originated way back in december when @j8hnnyseo shared a video of a dough ball "running" in circles. now, it has arrived at the animal kingdom as well and we're here to bring you all the best ones we have seen. view list repost - vote - recaption comments cute animals funny tweets animal tweets animal memes i can has cheezburger? favorite cats swinging into action (gifs and pics) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email everyone loves swings. everyone. you cannot tell us that when you're at the park and you see an empty swingset, that you're not compelled to rush forward and claim it as your own. even if you're no longer a kid, we're all kids at heart. the kid inside us want to be on those swings! our theory, cats never grow old so they can effortlessly ride swings without judgement. here are some kitkats on swings! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww gifs cute animals swinging swings cats i can has cheezburger? favorite tumblr thread points some interesting facts about the weird look of toucans share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email toucans are known for their oversized, colorful beaks that seem non-proportional to their body's size. this guy on tumblr started a viral thread filled with some interesting facts about this weird looking bird. by talking about the bird's skeletal anatomy and the way it sleeps, people started to realize that these birds are indeed weirder yet cuter than they thought. view list repost - vote - recaption comments tumblr cute animals toucans funny animals funny tumblr upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter