login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit video i can has cheezburger? favorite cheeto the raccoon meets ferrets (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via tito the raccoon repost - vote - recaption there's something oddly satisfying about animals bonding with other species. maybe it helps paint a picture of what the world could be. or maybe it's just too overwhelmingly cute to see two adorable creatures come together. either way, we would watch cheeto interacting with ferrets all day if we could! this video shows cheetos very first time meeting ferrets! stay to say it went pretty well! comments aww youtube ferrets cute raccoons video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite owlkitty parody's netflix's 'the witcher' (video share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via owlkitty repost - vote - recaption toss a cat to your witcher! oh valley of plenty! what better way to distract ourselves than to immerse ourselves in the world of owlkitty? truthfully, we can think of nothing better. thanks for the laughs, owlkitty! who know 'the witcher' would be so magical with you in it? comments youtube parody the witcher lol witcher owlkitty netflix cats funny video geralt i can has cheezburger? favorite cuteness coma: baby kitten dreaming (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via pawmeow repost - vote - recaption let the relaxing music lull you into ease and let the insanely adorable kitten melt your heart until it becomes nothing more than a gooey messy on the floor. this video is by pawmeow, an oridinary couple with a big dream to provide for stray cats in bulgaria. thank you pawmeow, for your caring hearts. comments aww baby youtube kitten cute dreaming cats video animals cuteness overload i can has cheezburger? favorite animals of instagram spotlight of the week: lucy, the bat cat share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email once a week, we will be featuring an extraordinary animal account on instagram! their story, the adorable pictures, and pawesome videos! this week's spotlight goes to lucy, the bat cat! lucy is a sphynx cat who suffers from a rare condition called hydrocephalus. hydrocephalus is when spinal fluid builds up on the brain, creating pressure on lucy's brain. due to her condition, lucy was not up for sale and when zilla bergamini first saw lucy, she was absolutely smitten and asked if she could adopt the special needs kitten. "i began reading everything i could about hydrocephalus and all possible outcomes, i looked for the best veterinarian neurological center in the country, and i already started setting up a fund to pay for her surgery — if needed — or medication," zilla told meowaf. and when lucy reached the age of two months, she arrived at her new home in haifa, israel. zilla was excited for lucy's arrival but also quite nervous about caring for a kitty with such a serious neurological condition. "she was loved before coming to me," zilla continued, "but her future was uncertain." but despite this, zilla says lucy's life is pretty normal! now, lucy loves going on adventures with her family, spending time with outdoors and with people! and due to lucy's unique looks that clearly resemble that of a bat's -- she has become a sensation on instagram with a following of over 25k! keep living life to the fullest, little lucy! view list repost - vote - recaption comments pics cat instagram cats lucy sphynx video animals bat i can has cheezburger? favorite adorable fluffy alpaca lives in the city with two guys (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via sbs tv동물농장x애니멀봐 repost - vote - recaption um, we have never wanted an alpaca as a pet as badly as we do after watching this! meet the cutest alpaca around -- paca! she's a girl and around 1-years-old. for being a youngling, she certain has some good manners! she seems very well-trained (for the most part), she can kiss on demand and even bow in respect! prepare to fall head over heels for paca! comments manners aww adorable alpaca youtube awesome cute trained video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite how to protect your pets from coronavirus share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via the telegraph repost - vote - recaption many pet owners these days are concerned by the possible effect of the covid-19 outbreak on their beloved pets. if you are symptom-free, your animals are not at risk. however, people at the telegraph have collected some measures to consider if you or someone you know has tested positive for covid-19. comments pets coronavirus video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite rebellious cat welcomed back to supermarket after negative backlash share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via stories of animals repost - vote - recaption say hello to pumpkin! pumpkin, a ginger cat, is a rescue who loves to spend time in the tesco store in norwich, u.k.. the staff at the tesco store thought pumpkin to be a "pain" and thus banned the cat from entering the store. luckily, there's so many of us cat lovers out there and backlash to tesco banning pumpkin resulted in threats to boycott the store. needless to say, pumpkin's ban has since been lifted. and quite honestly, the sole reason we'd like to visit this tesco is to hang out with the legendary pumpkin. comments aww supermarket tesco pumpkins youtube cute banned cats video grocery store i can has cheezburger? favorite the domino effect: cat edition (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via cat navi desk repost - vote - recaption "this human and his crazy ideas!" - these cats, probably. if you're crazy bored at home with nothing to do -- perhaps create a giant display of dominos for the sole purrpose of entertaining your cats! that's what 'cat navi desk' did, and look how fun it turned out! we're pretty sure this took ages but turns out it was totally worth it! comments fun cool youtube dominos cats funny video i can has cheezburger? favorite the true definition of crazy cat owners (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via the dodo repost - vote - recaption "you know what they say... the taller the tower the more single the owner!" the dodo has us cackling at how accurate and wholesomely relatable this video is! comments aww the dodo youtube cat owners cats funny video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite from hiss to kiss: little kitten realizes she loves love share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via community cats repost - vote - recaption what a little lovebug! meet marilyn monroe, the kitten with the cutest little hiss. marilyn sure does ask tough but the moment she gets that tummy rub, she turns into a pile mush and realizes just how much she loves love! comments aww cat baby adorable hiss youtube kiss kitten cute cats video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite djinn is the cutest baby fox in the world share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via djinn the fennec fox repost - vote - recaption or at the very else, one of the cutest baby foxes! meet djinn, the fennec fox who's got the face of a puppy -- including puppy eyes! we watched this video (so we can say from experience), there is no heckin' way you won't be "awww"ing at some point while watching! enjoy 10 blissful minutes of adorable baby djinn, it'll do the soul some good. comments aww foxes baby animals fennec fox youtube cute baby fox video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite one log, numerous animals (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via wsls 10 / robert bush repost - vote - recaption robert bush, a pennsylvania man, has captured a variety of different animals crossing the log bridge, or swimming underneath in their natural habitats. this footage has been taken all year and trimmed down to share he highlighted parts. nature is amazing. comments nature youtube awesome log wildlife bridge video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite sweet caring cat fathers baby chick (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via kritter klub repost - vote - recaption this handsome ginger cat is the purrfect papa to this tiny chick, who has decided to never leave the cat's side. it doesn't seem like the cat minds too much, though... and we can safely say that neither do we. enjoy some parental love! unlikely friendships are the best kind of friendships. comments aww baby youtube fatherhood chick cats video animals unlikely friendship father i can has cheezburger? favorite jun makes cats special japanese meal (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via junskitchen repost - vote - recaption these cats are living the life! i mean, who wouldn't want a personal chef? while we're sitting here with our cup of noodles, junskitchen has created a full course meal for his cats! as written by jun, "i tried to make a traditional-style japanese meal for my cats! it's a set menu (miso soup, rice with furikake, and fish) except the food is all made out of cat-safe ingredients." sounds delicious! comments meal japanese chef japan delicious cats video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite leopard surprisingly sounds like a heavy smoker share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via big cat rescue repost - vote - recaption meet armani! this lovely lady is twenty-two years old leopard who is undeniably silly, playful, and very vocal. she is in the lovely hands of big cat rescue, an educational non-breeding, accredited, sanctuary and a registered non-profit organization. if you ever wondered what a chatty leopard sounds like -- turn up the volume! we can't help but hear a heavy chain smoker but we still love armani regardless of what she sounds like! comments leopard youtube cute noise wildcats sound meow video i can has cheezburger? favorite cat party with $300 worth of catnip (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via creamheroes repost - vote - recaption imagine you had $300 and you spent all of that on drugs...drugs for the biggest party for your cats! that's right. we're talking about catnip. sounds pretty terrific, wouldn't you agree? seems like one heck of a party! next time, we want an invite! comments catnip cute party cats funny video upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter