login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit funny dogs i can has cheezburger? favorite dog was so happy his owner is home now that he sprained his tail from too much wagging share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email rolo is a 7-year-old dachshund from the united kingdom. when this good boy realized his owner, emma smith, is staying home due to the coronavirus pandemic, he couldn't contain his excitement and started wagging his tail so much that he, unfortunately, sprained it. his owner twitted the story which was shared by more than 140,000 times and liked by more than 1 million people, including "the morning show" and "friends" star jennifer aniston. smith continued on updating about her happy pooch in the following days and even set up rolo with his own instagram account — rolo.thehotdog — so that interested pup lovers can "follow my journey getting my wag back." view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs tail wagging funny dogs quarantine i can has cheezburger? favorite new boredom trend: dogs with human hands share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we must admit we kinda like this new trend by dog owners who are always looking for creative ways to fight off boredom at home. looking forward to the cat version too. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs dog photos human funny dogs i can has cheezburger? favorite self-isolation: the dog version (comics) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email while cats might be quite confused by their human's constant existence at home these days, dogs couldn't be happier. off the leash comic creator has managed to nail it to the point with these new awesome comic strips. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs animal comics funny dogs web comics i can has cheezburger? favorite just what we needed: heartwarming stories of dog friendships share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email dogs may be man's best friend, but they don't limit their love to just humans. these dog friendships transcend size and species—it's almost too adorable to handle. thank you, @weratedogs, for these uplifting content! view list repost - vote - recaption comments animal friends dogs heartwarming dog tweets funny dogs i can has cheezburger? favorite adorable doggo has some fun with an ice cube share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via cheezburger repost - vote - recaption what do you get when you add an adorable little doggy and a very (abnormal) ice cube? an amazingly entertaining video of utter cuteness! and if you were wondering where you could find even more animal videos... than look no further, cheezburger's youtube channel has it covered! comments funny videos cute dogs youtube cute doggos funny dogs lol funny i can has cheezburger? favorite doggo fails that are just pure cuteness share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via icanhascheezburger repost - vote - recaption we've all seen it, those adorable little fails from our best friends. a small jump or falling off the bed while playing. and it's always a small "awww no!" then the laughter comes around. doggo fails just make the world go round and our love for them will never fade. now you can get more adorable videos of animals from i can has cheezburger's youtube channel! comments dogs adorable fail videos dog fails funny dogs lol funny i can has cheezburger? favorite daylight saving time has pets all messed up (memes) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email daylight saving time is like a tiger that sneaks up behind us twice a year and catches us by surprise every time. but can you even imagine what's going on with our poor pets on that day? well, one thing's for sure- they are even more confused than us, humans, as you can see from the following memes. view list repost - vote - recaption comments daylight savings funny pets funny dogs funny cats animal memes i can has cheezburger? favorite some people are sending "we rate dogs" photos of things that clearly are not dogs share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we all just love the @dog_rates twitter account! the only problem is that there are some confused people who are sending their photos to the wrong place. we have collected some examples of people failing miserably with that mission. so please, people, they only rate dogs! view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs dog rate cute funny dogs i can has cheezburger? favorite dog owners explain their unique connection with their pet in fifteen relatable tweets share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email dogs may be "man's best friend," but they're also arguably twitter's best subject. many dog owners love to share funny thoughts, anecdotes, and stories on twitter, showing their undevoted love for their canine friend. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs dog tweets funny dogs funny tweets funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite funny pets who became even cuter after a bath share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we are not sure these pets nor their owners were quite prepared for these hilariously unflattering photos. the revenge is on its way. soon. view list repost - vote - recaption comments wet pets after bath funny pets funny dogs funny cats i can has cheezburger? favorite "toofers" is a funny subreddit dedicated to silly photos of dogs with their teeth sticking out share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the hilarious subreddit invites dog owners to show off their pet's adorable smiles since it turns out that teeth are the most attractive feature of dogs. whether they're giving a sweet smile or a silly snarl, dogs can really make us laugh with their fangs visible. the toofers community currently has more than 77,000 followers and anyone with adorable dogs is free to join. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dog photos funny dogs subreddit dog teeth i can has cheezburger? favorite hounds make the world go round (dog memes) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's a beautiful day for frolicking in the dog park! or we can just sit in our cubicles and smile at dog memes instead! at least both ways deliver some doggo content! every week we have fresh hot doggo memes delivered straight to your face and to your heart (insert loud 'aww' sound here.) so take a moment to sit back and relax, and enjoy all the good bois and girls this list has to offer! and just in case you're having a ruff day and need an extra lift, check out these doggo memes -- that should cure just about anything. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs funny dog memes memes doggo funny dogs lol doggo memes funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite with the right shoe, any dog can turn into a platypup share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email there's a new dog breed you really need to meet- the platypups! and no, it's not a new biological breed but rather something magical that happens when a cute dog sticks its nose into a shoe. the new breed is going viral online by people who are sharing photos of adorable platypups roaming in their homes. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs dog photos cute platypup funny dogs i can has cheezburger? favorite when dogs go on therapy share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via zefrank1 repost - vote - recaption "everyone asks me "who's a good boy" but they never ask "how's the good boy"...yep. that's a good line to start a therapy session if you're a dog. comments dogs theraphy dog video funny dogs i can has cheezburger? favorite the look of betrayal: these dogs are not happy when realizing you're heading to the vet share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email "but you said we're going to the dog park!" anyone who had to take their dog to the vet knows that somewhere along the way, comes this look. the look of betrayal. here are 10 dogs who will probably never believe you again. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs animal photos dog photos funny dogs vet i can has cheezburger? favorite twenty-six fetchin' doggo memes share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email gather around, folks! we've got a delicious dog dump just for you! hope you're hungry! every week we have fresh hot doggo memes delivered straight to your face and to your heart (insert loud 'aww' sound here.) so take a moment to sit back and relax, and enjoy all the good bois and girls this list has to offer! and just in case you're having a ruff day and need an extra lift, check out these doggo memes -- that should cure just about anything. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs funny dog memes memes doggo funny dogs lol doggo memes funny animals upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter