login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit dogs i can has cheezburger? favorite meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ready to smile? each week we are featuring the newly adopted pets of the week! is there a lovelier sight than an animal being adopted?! we wholeheartedly thank those who have adopted, providing animals with a loving, comfortable and warm home. there's literally nothing better. we're seeing a lot of new furry faces being adopted due to the new regulations, and while we absolutely adore seeing so many adopted faces, please remember that a pet is for life. the decision to adopt one is one that should be thought through thoroughly. for those of you who are thinking about getting a pet, just remember; adopt, don't shop. if you recently adopted a pet, shoot us an email to be featured in next weeks list! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww adopt shelter dogs adoption adopted cats animals rescue i can has cheezburger? favorite dog was so happy his owner is home now that he sprained his tail from too much wagging share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email rolo is a 7-year-old dachshund from the united kingdom. when this good boy realized his owner, emma smith, is staying home due to the coronavirus pandemic, he couldn't contain his excitement and started wagging his tail so much that he, unfortunately, sprained it. his owner twitted the story which was shared by more than 140,000 times and liked by more than 1 million people, including "the morning show" and "friends" star jennifer aniston. smith continued on updating about her happy pooch in the following days and even set up rolo with his own instagram account — rolo.thehotdog — so that interested pup lovers can "follow my journey getting my wag back." view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs tail wagging funny dogs quarantine i can has cheezburger? favorite new boredom trend: dogs with human hands share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we must admit we kinda like this new trend by dog owners who are always looking for creative ways to fight off boredom at home. looking forward to the cat version too. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs dog photos human funny dogs i can has cheezburger? favorite squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's a beautiful day for frolicking in the dog park! just kidding, no one is allowed out and we've been cooped up indoors for over a week, and others for way longer... but where is your imagination? regardless of our current whereabouts, one thing we can always count on is doggo memes to lift our spirits! every week we have fresh hot doggo memes delivered straight to your face and to your heart (insert loud 'aww' sound here.) so take a moment to sit back and relax, and enjoy all the good bois and girls this list has to offer! and just in case you're having a ruff day and need an extra lift, check out these doggo memes -- that should cure just about anything. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs cute memes doggo lol doggo memes funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite video binge delight share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we've scoured our archives to deliver to you, our users the best 10 videos from our site! so take a break from all that netflix and hulu and binge on some adorable animal videos! view list repost - vote - recaption comments lolcats dogs adorable animal videos videos cute lol cats funny i can has cheezburger? favorite self-isolation: the dog version (comics) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email while cats might be quite confused by their human's constant existence at home these days, dogs couldn't be happier. off the leash comic creator has managed to nail it to the point with these new awesome comic strips. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs animal comics funny dogs web comics i can has cheezburger? favorite just what we needed: heartwarming stories of dog friendships share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email dogs may be man's best friend, but they don't limit their love to just humans. these dog friendships transcend size and species—it's almost too adorable to handle. thank you, @weratedogs, for these uplifting content! view list repost - vote - recaption comments animal friends dogs heartwarming dog tweets funny dogs i can has cheezburger? favorite time to take in the weekly dose of cute (#75) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email once a week, your cuteness prescription will always be automatically refilled for your viewing pleasure! nothing -- and we mean nothing brings on those warm mushy feeling like a huge dose of animal cuteness! we scoured the internet to bring you the cutest animal pictures of the week! bringing you cuteness every week - stay tuned for next week's dose! if you missed last week's dose, and you need a cuteness overload, check out last week's here. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs adorable cute cats animals cuteness overload i can has cheezburger? favorite feel-good animal facts for anyone who needs it share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email i mean, corgis do seem like noble worthy steeds! not only are these animal facts interesting -- they are heckin' precious! fairies riding corgis to get around? come on, don't think it can get much cuter than that! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww cool dogs facts interesting cute cats animals i can has cheezburger? favorite twelve delightful tweets from 'thoughts of dog' share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email 2020 may seem like a really, really rough start to the new decade we were once so hopeful about. luckily, we can always count on our favorite doggo to bring us a new perspective on things and make us realize... life ain't so bad. just gotta be optimistic and perhaps take a lesson from 'thoughts of dog.' view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs quarantined twitter 2020 tweets quarantine funny tweets thoughts of dog i can has cheezburger? favorite funny tweets about pets who totally lost it when they saw their reflection share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email even wonder what your cat or dog sees when he looks at his reflection in the mirror? do pets even recognize themselves? while many may think this common question is open to debate — or even a little silly — it's actually neither. in psychology circles, the mirror test is considered an important evaluation of self-awareness in animals. but until the debate is resolved, please welcome these adorable pets who had some hilarious reactions when they saw their reflection for the first time. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs pets reflection animal tweets cats funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite 'i've pet that dog' makes changes amid coronavirus share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email you have all met gideon, the adorable 11-year-old boy behind the popular 'i've pet that dog' twitter account. with more than 366k followers, gideon posts daily photos of dogs he met while always adding an amusing dog's bio to it. but now, amid the coronavirus pandemic, he had to make some major changes as he won't be able to physically meet those dogs he loves so much. a few days ago, his mother, who runs the popular page, posted a message to all his fans: "with all that is going on right now, it seems wise for us to stay home as much as possible," gideon's mom explained. "but he is not giving up on his project", she added and asked them to send her boy photos of dogs instead. of course, it didn't take long before the adorable canine snapshots started pouring in and gideon could continue posting daily. but now, instead of actually getting a chance to meet all of the canines, the boy's posts are all about the dogs he "would love to pet." good for you, gideon! we will definitely continue to follow you, especially during these days. view list repost - vote - recaption comments boy dogs cute dogs twitter dog tweets i can has cheezburger? favorite meet the newly adopted faces of the week (19 images + 1 vid) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ready to smile? each week we are featuring the newly adopted pets of the week! is there a lovelier sight than an animal being adopted?! we wholeheartedly thank those who have adopted, providing animals with a loving, comfortable and warm home. there's literally nothing better. for those of you who are thinking about getting a pet, just remember; adopt, don't shop. if you recently adopted a pet, shoot us an email to be featured in next weeks list! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww shelter dogs adoption adopted cats animals rescue i can has cheezburger? favorite distracting doggo memes is where it's at (34 memes) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's a beautiful day for frolicking in the dog park! just kidding, it's rainy and we're stuck indoors... but where is your imagination? regardless of our current whereabouts, one thing we can always count on is doggo memes to lift our spirits! every week we have fresh hot doggo memes delivered straight to your face and to your heart (insert loud 'aww' sound here.) so take a moment to sit back and relax, and enjoy all the good bois and girls this list has to offer! and just in case you're having a ruff day and need an extra lift, check out these doggo memes -- that should cure just about anything. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs cute memes doggo lol funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite fashion photographer uses his dog to recreate madonna's iconic photos share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email vincent flouret is a french fashion photographer from paris. lately, he has been working on a special project - recreating the most iconic photos of the diva, madonna, using his beloved dog, max. we are not sure which version we like more. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs photography dog photos i can has cheezburger? favorite teen goes viral after saving her dog from drowning while performing a tiktok dance share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email cadence beavers from arizona went viral on tiktok a few days ago after posting a heroic video of herself rushing to save her sister's dog, mj, who run into the pool and started drowning while she was performing one of her tiktok's dances. well done, cadence! view list repost - vote - recaption comments viral videos dogs cute dogs teenagers animal rescue tiktok upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter