login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit puppy i can has cheezburger? favorite psa share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via spiritdog training repost - vote - recaption comments puppy psa helpful i can has cheezburger? favorite adorable puppy attacks himself in mirror share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via cheezburger repost - vote - recaption it's something special when an animal sees a reflection of themselves for the first time. it might be that they too start to believe that they are incredibly adorable just like how we see them! want to see more videos? cheezburger's youtube channel is loaded with them! youtube channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/uc7yaj-nrergy28nxi9-v1rg? comments dogs adorable puppy cute animals cute lol funny i can has cheezburger? favorite rae, the golden retriever unicorn, has one ear share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email sometimes, you just need something pure and wholesome to take your attention away from the madness. that something is rae. meet rae! possibly the cutest one-eared golden retriever to ever retrieve! due to an accidental injury at birth, rae was born with one ear on her right side, and as she grew, it migrated to the top of her precious head. prepare yourself, you're about to fall in love. we know because it happened to us. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww unicorn dogs ear puppy instagram rae cute doggo golden retriever cuteness overload i can has cheezburger? favorite thirty little puppers puppy-ing their way into hearts share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the ultimate pup dump has arrived and we're expecting major, and we mean major "awww!'"s. be still our hearts because this is the definition of cuteness overload. we cannot handle this amount of cute -- it's completely overwhelming and if we don't get to throw ourselves into a puppy pen of 100+ pups right now, we will actually lose it. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww pics dogs adorable puppy puppies cute animals cuteness overload i can has cheezburger? favorite people are not sure if this adorable creature with derpy expression is a puppy or a kitten share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email well, it doesn't really matter when one thing is clear- this little puppy from vietnam is definitely one of the cutest things we have seen lately. the hmong dogs look like a little kitten/ puppy hybrid with a constant derpy expression on their face. they were originally bred as hunting and guard dogs but let's admit it, this cute derpy face might not be the perfect face for the job. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs cute dogs puppy dog photos i can has cheezburger? favorite meet the newly adopted faces of the week (20 images + 1 vid) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ready to smile? each week we are featuring the newly adopted pets of the week! is there a lovelier sight than an animal being adopted?! we wholeheartedly thank those who have adopted, providing animals with a loving, comfortable and warm home. there's literally nothing better. for those of you who are thinking about getting a pet, just remember; adopt, don't shop. if you recently adopted a pet, shoot us an email to be featured in next weeks list! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww adopt shelter cat dogs puppy kitten cute adopted cats animals rescue i can has cheezburger? favorite pup named 'narwhal' has a tail growing from his head share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email meet narwhal! paw-bably the best name ever for this individual pup! why? narwhal has a tail growing exactly where a narwhal's horn would be! some are even calling it a 'unicorn horn.' narwhal might be the rarest pup around! being a "magical unicorn" and all. mac's mission, a missouri-based rescue, found narwhal wandering outside in the freezing cold with another, older pup. mac's mission came to the rescue and they were surprised to find a little growth protruding from between the little pup's eyes. while the growing tail is completely nonfunctional, luckily it is not attached to anything life threatening! the experienced vet saw no reason at this time for the unicorn tail to be removed. we love you, narwhal! two tails just makes you twice as cute! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww unicorn dogs rare puppy cute tail narwhal animals i can has cheezburger? favorite good golden puppers review food whilst in bathtub share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via tucker budzyn repost - vote - recaption meet good boy tucker! heckin' cute and also one heck of a food reviewer! tucker's adorable puppy pal, flutter, recently came over for a play date and decided to join in on the taste test! note from tucker budzyn's youtube, "all foods used in this video are safe for dogs in moderation. before feeding these foods to your dog, always test them in small amounts. each pup is different!" comments reviews aww dogs puppy youtube cute food golden retrievers video i can has cheezburger? favorite momma cat adopts puppy into her litter share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email motherhood just comes naturally to some! meet jada, a british shorthair cat living in brookfield, connecticut. jada is one of those born-to-be mothers as she also adopted a newborn chihuahua, named lazarus, into her litter. lazarus originally had quite a troublesome entry into the world for the puppy. told ctinsider. "this mother has really saved his life."' data-reactid="13" type="text">the animals' owner, veterinarian sharon eisen told ctinsider, "i didn't think he was going to make it. this mother has really saved his life." last week, lazarus's birth mother underwent a c-section, and since she wasn't awake for the procedure, she didn't develop mothering instincts, not producing milk and effectively abandoning newborn lazarus. eisen continued, "we had a puppy with no mother and no milk," she also tried alternative feeding methods that all proved fruitless. when it came down to saving this pup's life, eisen decided to test the formulas for both kittens and puppies, and compared the two milks and came to the conclusion that the milks shared enough similarities. thus leading to having jada nurse lazarus. eisen introduced lazarus to jada, who had recently birthed a litter of kittens, of which she lost one. it was the moment when eisen saw jada cleaning lazarus, as she would one of her own, that eisen knew lazarus has been fully accepted. and to make the moment even sweeter, eisen says lazarus has also been accepted by the rest of the kittens! see the heartwarming pics below: view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww puppy motherhood cute love kitties cats animals i can has cheezburger? favorite woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email all the feels! kate howard is sharing this heartwarming and completely unexpected reunion story of her and the pup she once fostered, and we can't stop smiling! kate howard, the managing editor at the kentucky center for investigative reporting, shared the story on twitter and it has since gone viral. we just love a happy ending! just another friendly reminder to adopt, don't shop. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww adopt dogs adoption heartwarming puppy reunited foster cute adopted tweets i can has cheezburger? favorite animals of instagram spotlight of the week: piglet, the pink-colored, deaf and blind dog share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email once a week, we will be featuring an extraordinary animal account on instagram! their story, the adorable pictures, and pawesome videos! this weeks spotlight goes to piglet, the adorable little pup who has become a global inspiration for kids everywhere! piglet, was born deaf and blind, and is racking up thousands of followers on instagram! piglet is a pink-hued, two-and-a-half years old dachshund and chihuahua mix, who was rescued from an overcrowded litter of 37 pups in a georgia hoarding facility. he was rescued by melissa shapiro, a connecticut-based vet. according to dailymail, piglet now lives his every best life, "like a prince" and has become a model for 'positive growth' for children. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs puppy instagram pink cute blind piglet deaf animals i can has cheezburger? favorite cuteness to cool the deep fiery depths of our angry souls after a long day (doggo gifs) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email everyone needs a healthy dose of doggo gifs in their diet! it's guaranteed to lift ones spirits and overall, make you a better person inside and out. so, time to take your daily cuteness meds in the form of wholesome and pure dog gifs! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs gifs puppy puppies cute doggo cuteness overload i can has cheezburger? favorite this dalmatian gave birth to 19 puppies and broke the world record share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email remember the 101 dalmatians film? after watching that as a child, i would fantasize about rolling around in a pile of puppies as they frolicked around me. sounds like a fantasy, right? well a woman in australia is living this dream after her pet dalmatian gave birth to 19 puppies, breaking the world record for the number of puppies born in one litter. and the pictures are ridiculously cute. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs cute dogs dalmatian doge adorable puppy puppies litter of puppies australia cute 101 dalmatians doggos funny dogs 19 puppies tu45lsi8 animal cute puppy doggeh dalmatians animals i can has cheezburger? favorite meet the puppy with a distinguished handlebar mustache named salvador dolly! share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email on july 26th, hearts and bones rescue posted their new rescued family on instagram! the rescued family consisted of 11 puppies and their beautiful mama! one of the puppies had a very unique marking on her face and was dubbed "the mustache puppy". the whole family headed to an amazing foster home in dallas, where they got getting lots of love and medical care. hearts & bones rescue is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization composed of a network of fosters and volunteers who collaborate to rescue shelter dogs and find them loving, forever homes. at hearts & bones, all of our dogs are 100% certified pre-loved. now, the rescue team at hearts and bones are head over heel for the little lady! and we can completely see why! check out the adorable 'mustache' puppy below: view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww mustache puppy salvador dolly cute i can has cheezburger? favorite 12 adorable and creative ways to announce your new baby kitten or puppy share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email are you looking for some cute announcement ideas to share the news of your new furry bundle of joy? if you have made the decision to bring a furry family member into your home, that's a huge milestone in your lives that is definitely worth celebrating. but how can you celebrate if nobody else knows what you are planning? it's long been a tradition to announce when you are expecting a baby, but now that trend is expanding into fun and creative puppy or kitten announcements and it's pawsome! view list repost - vote - recaption comments adoption puppy kitten announcement i can has cheezburger? favorite when you're a perfect mix of both your parents share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via izismile repost - vote - recaption comments dogs puppy cute mixed breed love upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter