login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit seals i can has cheezburger? favorite seal rescue charity in ireland posts photos of the cutest sea chonks share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email seal rescue ireland is a charity that works around the clock to rescue, rehabilitate and release imperiled seals from across ireland, as well as to promote ocean conservation. they also have an awesome instagram page where they upload heart-melting photos of rescued seals we thought might be of interest to you. view list repost - vote - recaption comments animal photos seals cute animals cute i can has cheezburger? favorite dad accidentally lists seals and pups on facebook messenger share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email oh, parents and facebook, the combo that will always results in some good-hearted laughs. twitter user, @jbwol, shared this screenshot of his father peter, sharing some pictures of what his dad looked like and where he was headed next. only thing is, instead of posting his day onto his normal newsfeed, seems like he accidentally clicked on facebook's 'marketplace' feature and listed 600 seals and their 180 pups for sale. alright, peter, we're sold! we'll take them off your hands for ya! here's are some of our favorite reactions to the tweet: view list repost - vote - recaption comments pups marketplace dads seals facebook tweets funny tweets animals i can has cheezburger? favorite over 100 seals born in what was once declared "biologically dead" river thames share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email an incredible 138 seal pups were recorded in the pup-count in 2018! river thames, a river in london, was declared "biologically dead" 60 years ago and is now clear evidence of a harbor seal breeding ground! thea cox, conservation biologist, told zsl, "we were thrilled to count 138 pups born in a single season. the seals would not be able to pup here at all without a reliable food source, so this demonstrates that the thames ecosystem is thriving and shows just how far we have come since the river was declared biologically dead in the 1950's." anna cucknell, project manager of the zsl's thames conservation added, "the restored 'mother thames' - as we call her - is an essential nursery habitat and home to many animals including more than 100 species of fish, including two species of shark, short-snouted seahorses and the critically endangered european eel. -- incredibly, harbour seal pups can swim within hours of birth which means they are well adapted to grow up in tidal estuaries, like the thames. by the time the tide comes in they can swim away on it. grey seals, on the other hand, take longer to be comfortable in the water, so breed elsewhere and come to the thames later to feed." the seal numbers in thames are rising and thames has now become one of london's most important wildlife habitats! story via zsl view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww river thames seals seal pups amazing thriving animals i can has cheezburger? favorite twitter user discovers this seal pose is called the "happy banana" and now we can't unsee it share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email twitter user, @argobagdr, recently discovered that the pose seals tend to do have a very fun and very un-scientific name. the pose is called the "happy banana" and this fact alone makes us happy. and once you see the "happy banana" pose, good luck ever unseeing it. from henceforth, all seals will be known as "happy bananas". view list repost - vote - recaption comments banana pose banana seals cute happy banana funny i can has cheezburger? favorite baby seals are the cutest thing ever and these photos are here to prove it share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we're not sure you are quite ready for all this dose of cuteness in once...we are in love! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww baby animals seals cute animals baby seals i can has cheezburger? favorite 10 crazy and strange facts about antarctica share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via toptenz repost - vote - recaption what do you know about antarctica? i can't answer for you but i can answer for myself; it's freezing. but what else? what about the wildlife there? here are 10 strange facts all about antarctica! comments antarctica facts interesting seals wildlife i can has cheezburger? favorite a fisherman had to be rescued from a cliff after being chased by a colony of angry seals share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the man was walking along the beach in green stane near eyemouth, scotland, when he disturbed around 50 of the large mammals and their young pups. in order to avoid them, he scrambled up the cliff face and became trapped about three quarters of the way up. however, with the weather worsening, the eyemouth lifeboat was called out to help and located the man using his head torch. a coastguard rescue officer was then lowered down the cliff to rescue the angler, who was taken to the lifeboat below back to the town's harbour. people on twitter thought the story was quite funny. view list repost - vote - recaption comments seals save cliff angry rescue i can has cheezburger? favorite kayaker gets the seal of approval when one jumps onto his boat share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email view list repost - vote - recaption comments seal seals surprise wildlife kayak hitchhiking señor gif favorite belly scratches share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email by unknown repost - vote - recaption comments gifs seals critters i can has cheezburger? favorite get off my dock, you lazy seals! share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via kyoot animals repost - vote - recaption comments dogs seals video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite get off my dock you freeloaders! share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via kyoot animals repost - vote - recaption comments dogs dock chase seals i can has cheezburger? favorite budget cuts share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via shadowfogkiller repost - vote - recaption comments budget cuts otters seals military i can has cheezburger? favorite a sassy elephant seal enjoys her day in the sun, while destroying everything in her path share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via mashable repost - vote - recaption molly the elephant seal has been spending a few weeks in with humans in tasmania's bruny island. she mostly spends her time relaxing in someone's back yard. via mashable she just wants to hang out with the locals. although she doesn't seem to be very dangerous she still leaves a path of destruction in her wake. via the mercury that's why she has to be lured back to the wild with a big fish on a string. who knows how long she'll stay away though, this isn't the first time she's come to visit. via mashable comments seals funny image i can has cheezburger? favorite a wild seal decided to make a new friend and join him for a boat ride share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via america's funniest home videos repost - vote - recaption comments seals cute video i can has cheezburger? favorite separated seals in love catch up over facetime share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via sea life weymouth repost - vote - recaption who said love was dead? after having two pups together these seals were separated while the mother was sent to live in an all female environment. now they get to see and interact with each other over the internet using facetime. comments seals cute love video i can has cheezburger? favorite watch adorable harbor seals frolic at oregon zoo share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via oregon zoo repost - vote - recaption comments seals cute video upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter