login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit facebook i can has cheezburger? favorite man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we're all pretty much stuck indoors these days... but what if you absolutely must have those delicious cheesy puffs of perfection, even during a global scale outbreak? we've all been there, we all know just how magical cheetos are. even though hot cheetos are cleary superior. but we're not here to talk about that. one man in mexico came up with a brilliant idea that would get him his cheetos without stepping foot outside. view list repost - vote - recaption comments isolation cute facebook lol chihuahua cheetos funny i can has cheezburger? favorite "disapproving corgis" is a facebook group filled with photos of judgmental corgis share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email corgis have been conquering our hearts with their foxy heads and fluffy butts but now, we have found one more reason to adore them - a facebook group called "disapproving corgis". filled with photos of corgis not afraid to express their thoughts on everything, this popular group has attracted more than 600k members so far and we can totally understand why. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs cute dogs corgi facebook i can has cheezburger? favorite facebook page with everything you need to know about cats in art throughout history share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email paintings by famous artists throughout history have captured the cat as our constant companion. but if you really want to follow the cat as it prowls through centuries of history, you can find anything you need to know on this facebook page. starting with the cat's very beginnings in pre-history, to its rise as a beloved and worshipped goddess, then its demonization and finally, to its current position as cherished companion and inspiration. view list repost - vote - recaption comments art cat art facebook cats i can has cheezburger? favorite what would you say? share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via motherrussia4 repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs cute pets facebook i can has cheezburger? favorite rescued cat resembling baby yoda going viral share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email this cat at cabarrus animal hospital in kannapolis, north carolina, is going viral for her resemblance to baby yoda from "the mandalorian." jana aviles, veterinarian assistant at cabarrus animal hospital, is a big "star wars" fan, and snapped the now viral photos of the rescued cat. she shared the photo on facebook and it racked up over 3.9k comments and and over 4.5k shares! "she was brought in by a rescue after she was found [as] an injured stray," aviles wrote on facebook. "she is so cute, like have you ever??" aviles has nicknamed the cat "yoda cat." yoda cat is missing her front teeth and has some physical scars , which is why her tongue sticks out, aviles said. "i wasn't sure if her prognosis was good, but her blood test came back negative, and she was in great spirits," avila told good morning america. "rescue animals are resilient in that way. everyone quickly fell in love with her." yoda cat currently remains at the veterinarian and has yet to be adopted, although aviles said people have offered to travel across the country to adopt the kitten! here's to hoping the adorable yoda cat finds her forever home in time for the new year! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww baby yoda cute facebook yoda viral cats rescue i can has cheezburger? favorite fat fred gets glorious recognition in viral post share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email fat fred is living the chonky dream. imgur shared the viral post on facebook, an image of signs taped to a glass door that shine the spotlight on their glorious chonk -- fred. from what it sounds like, fred is a very good, chonky boy, and sorry everyone, he is not up for adoption. however, as the bottom sign mentions, smaller models are available! view list repost - vote - recaption comments cat post facebook fat fred chonk chonky funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite internet gold: blind man asks his facebook group to post descriptions of their dogs share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email "how would you describe your dog? what's their personality? how soft are they? what other animals do they look like?" - this is what stephen shkuratoff from canada, wanted to know. shkuratoff is a devoted dog lover and a blind man. he is also a member of the facebook group dogspotting society— a place for members of different dogspotting groups to discuss their own dogs and get to know other group members. and boy, the descriptions were just what we needed! view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs cute dogs facebook friends facebook blind i can has cheezburger? favorite "black metal cats" paired with metal lyrics is dark as fluff share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email if you're not following black metal cats on facebook, you're missing out! the page pairs bad*ss looking cats along side a black metal lyrics to complete the image. usually, leaving the image with a more sinister and dark feel, but that's what theyre going for! who ever said cats be metal? this page is proof that cats are probably the most metal animal out there. view list repost - vote - recaption comments quotes metal pics facebook black metal cats funny i can has cheezburger? favorite dad accidentally lists seals and pups on facebook messenger share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email oh, parents and facebook, the combo that will always results in some good-hearted laughs. twitter user, @jbwol, shared this screenshot of his father peter, sharing some pictures of what his dad looked like and where he was headed next. only thing is, instead of posting his day onto his normal newsfeed, seems like he accidentally clicked on facebook's 'marketplace' feature and listed 600 seals and their 180 pups for sale. alright, peter, we're sold! we'll take them off your hands for ya! here's are some of our favorite reactions to the tweet: view list repost - vote - recaption comments pups marketplace dads seals facebook tweets funny tweets animals i can has cheezburger? favorite 1 'murder peet' cats are our new favorite thing share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email what are peets? peets are those fuzzy, adorable toe-bean filled paws we can't get enough of! what are murder peets? mostly those fuzzy, adorable toe-bean filled paws we can't get enough of! but, on a wildcat. or, a domestic cat. and what is 1 murder peet? mostly those fuzzy, adorable toe-bean filled paws we can't get enough of! but, instead of two dangerous peets, it's just one. the popular facebook 'this cat is c h o n k y' user stephenie renfro hays‎, shared a hilarious pic of her cat offering 1 murder peet, and asking other users if they accept this form of payment? literally everyone said yes, because how could you deny such a precious creature? however, many users accepted and offered 1 murder peet of their own, in exchange. thus, beginning the new era of 1 murder peet! view list repost - vote - recaption comments murder cute facebook peets murder peet cats funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite was this posted at 2am? i feel like this happened at 2am share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via yack repost - vote - recaption comments dogs barking facebook funny i can has cheezburger? favorite cat stopped toddler from dangerous plummeting staircase (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we hear about dogs saving people's lives all the time, but what about cats? can cats be 'heroic'? with this video uploaded to facebook, the answer to that question is a definite yes. dlore álvarez, from bogota, colombia, shared an incredible video on facebook, of her cat rescuing her son. the cat named gatubela stopping her little boy, samuel, from heading towards dangerous staircase. samuel, one-years-old, was crawling towards the staircase, as seen in the security footage uploaded to facebook, when gatubela quickly jumps into action. gatubela inserts itself between the toddler and the dangerously steep fall of approximately 12 steps. we are in complete awe and now know that yes, cat's can definitely be defined as "heroes." view list repost - vote - recaption comments hero toddler staircase facebook amazing cats video i can has cheezburger? favorite popular facebook group, 'this cat is c h o n k y' goes nationwide with billboards share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the popular and continuously growing facebook group, 'this cat is c h o n k y' now has billboards representing the group, and chonks, in nyc, la, sf, and chicago! if you are unfamiliar with this group, and you are a cat lover, it's probably the best page on facebook ever created. with nearly half a million followers, a page dedicated to chonky cats from all over the world. this beautiful group of people are constantly sharing their cats, love for cats, and every so often console and grieve along side those who have recently lost their furbaby. it's more than just another facebook page, it's support group for all those who love cats and simply love love. congrats on the nationwide recognition 'this cat is c h o n k y'! view list repost - vote - recaption comments billboard awesome facebook group chonk chonky cats i can has cheezburger? favorite facebook user shares 'lewd' pics of her cat enjoying a banana share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email cat named bean is the most banana-loving boy there is! his owner shared these lewd pics of bean enjoying a banana with quite a risqué reaction. the pics have since gone viral with over 30k likes and 30k shares! you can also follow banana-loving bean on instagram! view list repost - vote - recaption comments pictures banana facebook lol cats funny lewd i can has cheezburger? favorite vet writes emotional letter as to how a vet sees euthanasia share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email grab those tissues, folks, there won't be a dry eye (or nose) in sight. whenever we say goodbye to our beloved pets, it's never easy. but we never really hear the vet's side of an euthanasia, until now. in a viral post by brenda gough, we got to see and feel what a vet experiences during this difficult time...and it's still never easy. view list repost - vote - recaption comments euthanasia facebook viral vet heartbreaking tearjerker animals i can has cheezburger? favorite new facebook ad stars dozens of hounds brought together by "nothing better than a basset" facebook group share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the message behind facebook's latest commercial called "found by the hounds," is that there only a few things that bring people together quite like the love of pets. the commercial — which is a part of facebook's "more together" campaign — stars real-life members of the "nothing better than a basset" group on facebook and we just love it! view list repost - vote - recaption comments commercial dogs ad basset hound facebook upvoted 277 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 220 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 218 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 192 the positive side 184 tiem 2 debug hooman hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 4 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 5 when your cat is a giant battle cat (comics) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter