login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit pixie and brutus i can has cheezburger? favorite new 'pixie and brutus' comic delivers much-needed wholesomeness share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email pixie has found herself a cardboard box that is just the purrfect size for a new luxurious home, filled with precious treasure! for those of you unfamiliar with the comic series, pixie and brutus is about a retired veteran dog (brutus) and his wholesome relationship with an innocent kitten (pixie). created by the talented pet_foolery, if you're not following on instagram -- you're missing out! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww wholesome comics cute pixie and brutus cats animals i can has cheezburger? favorite animals of instagram spotlight of the week: tigger and nadja share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email once a week, we will be featuring an extraordinary animal account on instagram! their story, the adorable pictures, and pawesome videos! this week's spotlight goes to tigger and nadja, the real-life pixie and brutus! you should all know who pixie and brutus are, by now. just in case you don't -- it's a comic series about a retired military dog who looks after an innocent kitten, thus, creating the most wholesome relationship alive! tigger and nadja are similar to those characters. nadja, is a gorgeous german sherpard, who is also a service dog who aids her hooman -- cori mendelow. not only is nadja an excellent girl, she's also quite attached to mendelow's other furbaby -- tigger! tigger, is an adorable orange kitten. tigger was recently sick but thankfully seems to be doing much better according to tigger's gofundme page. thank goodness for that! the two (tigger and nadja) are often photographed cuddling each other and it's simply the sweetest sight! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs adorable german shepherd instagram kitten cute service dogs love pixie and brutus cats i can has cheezburger? favorite new pixie and brutus comic: pixie tastes a lemon share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email like the rest of the world - we are major pixie and brutus fans! the newest comic features pixie trying a lemon for the very first time! how do you think she'll like it? for those of you unfamiliar with the comic series, pixie and brutus is about a retired veteran dog (brutus) and his wholesome relationship with an innocent kitten (pixie). created by the talented pet_foolery, if you're not following on instagram -- you're missing out! view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww wholesome dogs adorable art instagram comics cute pixie and brutus cats i can has cheezburger? favorite short animation of 'pixie and brutus' (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via scyrina repost - vote - recaption 'pixie and brutus,' is a comic created by the talented pet_foolery! it's about a retired military dog, brutus, who gets a forever home with a sweet and very innocent kitten, pixie. pixie and brutus's relationship is so incredibly wholesome. the comic is widely successful and has millions of fans. one of those fans decided to make a short animation based on the comic! scyrina, started this animation over a year ago and even though he's not completely satisfied with the outcome, he still shared it with the world and everyone is loving it! comments aww wholesome dogs youtube animation pixie and brutus cats video i can has cheezburger? favorite new pixie and brutus comic hits hard in the feels share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email wowee! new "pixie and brutus" comics created by the very talented pet_foolery! you can follow his work and the story of pixie and brutus on his instagram handle. this new installment of everyone's favorite cat and dog duo hits a tad bit harder in the feels than others. still, we can't get enough of this duo and their wholesome relationship. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs feels military kitten pstd comic pixie and brutus animals i can has cheezburger? favorite new "pixie and brutus" comics to warm your soul (12 panels) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email wowee! new "pixie and brutus" comics created by the very talented pet_foolery! you can follow his work and the story of pixie and brutus on his instagram handle. view list repost - vote - recaption comments instagram cute pixie and brutus pet foolery funny i can has cheezburger? favorite the adventures of "pixie and brutus" continues with these new comics! share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we just love pixie and brutus's relationship! "pixie and brutus" is an adorable comic created by pet_foolery, who you can follow on instagram so you never miss a comic! view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny comics instagram comics cute pixie and brutus pet foolery funny web comics i can has cheezburger? favorite adorable new halloween comics from pixie and brutus share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email you can see more 'pixie and brutus' by following pet_foolery on instagram! view list repost - vote - recaption comments halloween costumes wholesome adorable halloween comics cute pixie and brutus web comics upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter