login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit i can has cheezburger? favorite squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's a beautiful day for frolicking in the dog park! just kidding, no one is allowed out and we've been cooped up indoors for over a week, and others for way longer... but where is your imagination? regardless of our current whereabouts, one thing we can always count on is doggo memes to lift our spirits! every week we have fresh hot doggo memes delivered straight to your face and to your heart (insert loud 'aww' sound here.) so take a moment to sit back and relax, and enjoy all the good bois and girls this list has to offer! and just in case you're having a ruff day and need an extra lift, check out these doggo memes -- that should cure just about anything. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww dogs cute memes doggo lol doggo memes funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we're all pretty much stuck indoors these days... but what if you absolutely must have those delicious cheesy puffs of perfection, even during a global scale outbreak? we've all been there, we all know just how magical cheetos are. even though hot cheetos are cleary superior. but we're not here to talk about that. one man in mexico came up with a brilliant idea that would get him his cheetos without stepping foot outside. view list repost - vote - recaption comments isolation cute facebook lol chihuahua cheetos funny i can has cheezburger? favorite disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email what a wonderfully magical black cat! meet lucifer, or lucik, a disabled cat that helps sick pets fight their ailments and get better! in an animal clinic called klyk, located in perm, russia, lucik is their furry nursing assistant who takes part in everything that's happening with both doctors and patients. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww cat clinic comfort disabled amazing support cats animals black cat i can has cheezburger? favorite that was quick... share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via cats on catnip repost - vote - recaption comments cat memes i can has cheezburger? favorite cats may be the real culprits of the toilet paper crisis (adorable video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via amitliz_art // cheezburger repost - vote - recaption with the world going in a frenzy to get a well stock supply of that hot commodity we call toilet paper, many with cats forgot a very golden rule...hide the precious and expensive load before your cat gets to it because one thing is for certain, cats do not care about your precious toilet paper! need more fun videos? cheezburger's youtube channel is full of them! comments lolcats animation adorable comics cute lol funny cats cats funny web comics i can has cheezburger? favorite the positive side share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via catsbeaversandducks repost - vote - recaption comments animal memes i can has cheezburger? favorite quarantine routine share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via /superjor_ repost - vote - recaption comments dog memes i can has cheezburger? favorite video binge delight share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we've scoured our archives to deliver to you, our users the best 10 videos from our site! so take a break from all that netflix and hulu and binge on some adorable animal videos! view list repost - vote - recaption comments lolcats dogs adorable animal videos videos cute lol cats funny i can has cheezburger? favorite cuteness coma: baby kitten dreaming (video) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via pawmeow repost - vote - recaption let the relaxing music lull you into ease and let the insanely adorable kitten melt your heart until it becomes nothing more than a gooey messy on the floor. this video is by pawmeow, an oridinary couple with a big dream to provide for stray cats in bulgaria. thank you pawmeow, for your caring hearts. comments aww baby youtube kitten cute dreaming cats video animals cuteness overload i can has cheezburger? favorite self-isolation: the dog version (comics) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email while cats might be quite confused by their human's constant existence at home these days, dogs couldn't be happier. off the leash comic creator has managed to nail it to the point with these new awesome comic strips. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs animal comics funny dogs web comics i can has cheezburger? favorite the calming manatee meme is back with some comforting messages share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email looking for a meme perfect for these confusing days? look no further than the calming manatee. the gentle sea cows, who happen to celebrate their national day today, have a profoundly calming effect. paired together with reassuring phrases, the calming manatee's ability to make you feel better is unparalleled. view list repost - vote - recaption comments manatee funny memes animal memes i can has cheezburger? favorite photos that say more than just a thousand words share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email ready for your weekly dose of amazing animal photos? these are sure worth your time. here's a link to our previous list, in case you missed it. view list repost - vote - recaption comments nature animal photos animals i can has cheezburger? favorite chonky cats who are eating too much during these quarantine days at home share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email when people (and their cats) are mere feet away from the fridge and a bunker's worth of groceries, quarantine boredom can lead to overeating. just take a look at these chonky boys. view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny cats cat photos chonky cats i can has cheezburger? favorite animals of instagram spotlight of the week: lucy, the bat cat share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email once a week, we will be featuring an extraordinary animal account on instagram! their story, the adorable pictures, and pawesome videos! this week's spotlight goes to lucy, the bat cat! lucy is a sphynx cat who suffers from a rare condition called hydrocephalus. hydrocephalus is when spinal fluid builds up on the brain, creating pressure on lucy's brain. due to her condition, lucy was not up for sale and when zilla bergamini first saw lucy, she was absolutely smitten and asked if she could adopt the special needs kitten. "i began reading everything i could about hydrocephalus and all possible outcomes, i looked for the best veterinarian neurological center in the country, and i already started setting up a fund to pay for her surgery — if needed — or medication," zilla told meowaf. and when lucy reached the age of two months, she arrived at her new home in haifa, israel. zilla was excited for lucy's arrival but also quite nervous about caring for a kitty with such a serious neurological condition. "she was loved before coming to me," zilla continued, "but her future was uncertain." but despite this, zilla says lucy's life is pretty normal! now, lucy loves going on adventures with her family, spending time with outdoors and with people! and due to lucy's unique looks that clearly resemble that of a bat's -- she has become a sensation on instagram with a following of over 25k! keep living life to the fullest, little lucy! view list repost - vote - recaption comments pics cat instagram cats lucy sphynx video animals bat i can has cheezburger? favorite good vibes: very good things that happened this week (tweets) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email when the world is all chaotic around us, here are some positive things that happened this week which will uplift and inspire you to become more optimistic. so are you ready for some smiles? view list repost - vote - recaption comments cute animals animal tweets funny animals animals i can has cheezburger? favorite hotel offers free cat sitting services for owners hospitalized with covid-19 share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email judith quinlan is the proud owner of victoria cat hotel, a cat-sitting service, in victoria, british columbia. after getting many cancellations amid the covid-19 pandemic, she decided to put the space to good use. great initiative, judith! view list repost - vote - recaption comments hotel heartwarming cats coronavirus upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter