login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit disney i can has cheezburger? favorite pet disneyfication: artist illustrates your pet photo in an iconic disney style share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email isa is a talented illustrator from the netherlands who came up with this awesome idea he refers to as pet disneyfication. that means you can send him a photo of your pet and he will illustrate it in an iconic disney style. what could be more magical than that? unfortunately, commissions are closed for the next months due to the massive demand. in the meantime, enjoy some of his creations on instagram. view list repost - vote - recaption comments disney pets animal art illustration i can has cheezburger? favorite i am the king share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via the humor train repost - vote - recaption comments cat memes the lion king disney i can has cheezburger? favorite disney characters re-imaged as pokemon evolutions share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email artist ry spirit, has taken some of the most cherished and beloved disney characters and threw in a new spins -- disney characters as pokemon evolutions! and yes, it's amazing as it sound! we're pretty much obsessed and didn't realize that we needed this mash-up in our lives, until now. check it up, ry spirit! we love your work! you can also check out the art on facebook! view list repost - vote - recaption comments cool pokémon disney art artist evolutions characters i can has cheezburger? favorite build-a-bear is back with exclusive bundle of disney's nightmare before christmas jack and sally share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email everyone's favorite halloween and christmas mash-up, the nightmare before christmas, is now an exclusive bundle at build-a-bear! build-a-bear is officially back! recently, the bear building factory released a collection of lion king plushies, as the new live-action lion king premiered early this year. and now they're back with a cool, bear-looking twist of tim burton's iconic jack and sally! the pair has already sold out but will be restocked soon! individually priced, jack and sally cost $55 for the entire plush + outfits (the plush alone stands at $30) but that's not all! the pumpkin king has his signature "this is halloween" song chip included, and sally includes "sally's song" on a sound chip as well! view list repost - vote - recaption comments sally disney plushies jack and sally jack skellington the nightmare before christmas cute build a bear i can has cheezburger? favorite disney's favorite dog, nala, meets her hero donald duck share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email meet helper dog nala, she helps her handler megan with a variety of different things! megan wrote in an instagram post that she suffers from "autism, ptsd, severe medication resistant depression, and many other conditions." she continues, "i also tend to get very overloaded and overwhelmed very easily. nala works is trained to do crowd control, blocking, respond to panic episodes, do dpt, and finding people, to mention a few." nala is one of the goodest girls there is! not only is she a wonderful service dog, she has a super cuddly personality and a big fan of donald duck! megan writes in another instagram post, "nala spends a lot of her time helping me at disney. it truly is my happy place! when we're at disney, i always let nala interact with the characters. she loves people but does not let that get in the way of her job. that being said, i also don't want to deprive her from something she enjoys so much." it is simply impossible not to fall in love with nala, no disney cast member could resist her charm either! here are some pics of nala with various disney cast members and her viral moment with her hero -- donald duck! view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs disney donald duck autism nala cute service dog helper dog disneyland i can has cheezburger? favorite pawsome list of disney names for your new cat share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email have you just adopted a cat and love disney? if so, this list is for you! when choosing a name for your cat we always recommend using your imagination, being creative and taking your cat's physical and personal characteristics into consideration! what better way to do this than by naming your cat after one of your favorite disney cats? the people at animalwised have come up with a list of 30 disney cat names for both male and female cats. via: animalwised view list repost - vote - recaption comments disney cats cat names animals disney cats i can has cheezburger? favorite shelter dog named monte becomes disney's new star in upcoming 'lady and the tramp' share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email way to go, monte! they say every dog has it's day and that day is here for one shelter pup from phoenix, arizona! monte is a 2-year-old terrier mix. was rescued from the animal services center of the mesilla valley in las cruces, new mexico, by halo animal rescue in april 2018. halo had be considered his 'home,' until he got adopted. according to the staff at the halo shelter, monte is described as super friendly, loves to greet people, give kisses, and loves attention. he also already knew how to sit and walks well on a leash. sounds like star quality to us! when the animal trainers from hollywood came scouting, looking for rescue dogs to cast in their film, monte was an obvious choice. monte was adopted by the trainers, and it's noted that he is leading a happy and normal life. and it gets even better -- disney has also added that all the rescue dogs featured in the film found furever homes when production ended! you can stream "lady and the tramp" and catch monte's performance on november 12th, on disney's new streaming service. view list repost - vote - recaption comments shelter lady and the tramp dogs disney monte adopted rescue dogs animals i can has cheezburger? favorite when life mimics art share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via i waste so much time repost - vote - recaption comments animal photos skunk disney cute bambi fawn i can has cheezburger? favorite disney used this adorable cub as a model for baby simba in the new 'lion king" remake share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email anyone who watched the new remake of "the lion king" with donald glover and beyonce, couldn't stand the cuteness of baby simba. now, the dallas zoo announced on their facebook page that bahati, a female lion at their zoo, was actually used as a model for it in the remake of the disney classic. "when bahati was just a month old, we provided disney with video of her movements for their animation team to use for motion and behavior reference when designing simba in the lion king," the zoo shared on facebook. those who have seen the technically stunning and wildly successful remake might recognize the dallas zoo lion, bahati, who isn't so little anymore. while most of the footage the zoo sent to disney shows bahati as a month-old cub, the formerly tiny lion is now a fully-grown, two-and-a-half-year-old lioness. view list repost - vote - recaption comments disney cub simba cute lion king i can has cheezburger? favorite we must go back share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via i waste so much time repost - vote - recaption comments lion king memes lion king drawing disney expression simba illustration i can has cheezburger? favorite build-a-bear is now offering a limited edition of 'the lion king' set and it's really cute share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email with the highly-anticapted live-action movie coming out in just a matter of days, we're seeing 'lion king' merchandise pop-up like it's 1994 all over again -- and we love it! build-a-bear (remember them?) has people running to collect the limited edition 'lion king' set and we totally want one...or two...or three--ok, we definitely want them all! the price range for one of these adorable plushies range from $15 (timon) to $33 (adult simba, standing tall at fourteen inches!). view list repost - vote - recaption comments the lion king disney plush plushie cute build a bear i can has cheezburger? favorite women's cat 'duchess' lives up to her name and gives birth to 'the aristocats' (9 pictures) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email everybody wants to be a cat! when shelby sewell-lopez of east texas first adopted duchess in 2018, she was lead to believe she was spayed -- apparently not! duchess's owners were in complete shock when she popped out a litter shortly after her adoption. the kittens she gave birthed to were rightfully named; berlioz, marie, and toulouse (and yes, their genders do match the movie)! duchess also popped out another kitten when the owners thought the birth was over. a solid white male with beautiful blue eyes, so they named him blue. but don't feel too bad for blue being left out of the aristocats gang, according to duchess and kittens, "[blue] is the most affectionate, definitely the most spoiled, and he loves his aristocat siblings!" all kittens are fixed, healthy, and spoiled rotten! would you expect anything less? if you've seen the disney classic 'the aristocats' you know just how accustomed they are to their lavish lifestyle. view list repost - vote - recaption comments duchess aww disney kitten cute aristocat i can has cheezburger? favorite disney releases poster of the new lion king characters and we can't wait share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email disney's most awaited film of the year is releasing soon and people just can't wait to relive their childhood. with almost 50 days until the release, disney has just revealed posters for the 11 main characters of the movie, along with the names of the actors who will be doing voice-overs for these 11 main characters. it sure gives us, fans, an idea of how the long-awaited film is going to be. view list repost - vote - recaption comments disney poster characters lion king i can has cheezburger? favorite "kitbull" by pixar is a beautiful short story about friendship share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via disney•pixar repost - vote - recaption kitbull, a new pixar short, (directed by rosana sullivan and produced by kathryn hendrickson) tells a story about friendship through an unlikely connection between an independent stray cat and a pit bull. comments pixar short disney stray cat kitbull pixar animated short animated pixar pit bull animated short short i can has cheezburger? favorite pet owners are getting inspired by the new disney' lion king share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email with the first teaser for disney's new lion king out, pet owners across the world are holding their furry friends aloft and recreating the iconic scene. we just love it! view list repost - vote - recaption comments disney pets ownership lion king i can has cheezburger? favorite this halloween you can turn your pet into one of your favorite disney characters share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we have collected some of the greatest disney's pet costumes for a legendary halloween! view list repost - vote - recaption comments halloween costumes dogs amazon disney pets halloween upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter