login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit pets i can has cheezburger? favorite pet disneyfication: artist illustrates your pet photo in an iconic disney style share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email isa is a talented illustrator from the netherlands who came up with this awesome idea he refers to as pet disneyfication. that means you can send him a photo of your pet and he will illustrate it in an iconic disney style. what could be more magical than that? unfortunately, commissions are closed for the next months due to the massive demand. in the meantime, enjoy some of his creations on instagram. view list repost - vote - recaption comments disney pets animal art illustration i can has cheezburger? favorite self- isolation day 9: people play tic-tac-toe with their pets share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email some people are totally losing it. up to the point, they are playing tic-tac-toe with their pets. and yes, it's just going as well as you'd expected. view list repost - vote - recaption comments pets quarantine animal tweets funny animals animals i can has cheezburger? favorite how to protect your pets from coronavirus share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via the telegraph repost - vote - recaption many pet owners these days are concerned by the possible effect of the covid-19 outbreak on their beloved pets. if you are symptom-free, your animals are not at risk. however, people at the telegraph have collected some measures to consider if you or someone you know has tested positive for covid-19. comments pets coronavirus video animals i can has cheezburger? favorite heartwarming: animal center offers free pet food to people who lost their jobs share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the coronavirus outbreak is causing massive disruption to the u.s. economy as global supply chains break down, travel is canceled and people practice "social distancing," avoiding everything from restaurants and retail outlets to conferences and office meetings. actually, one-fifth of u.s. workers already report losing hours or work because of the pandemic. the helen woodward animal center center in san diego has decided to do its part to ensure that all pet owners will be able to take care of their animals during these rough days of financial instability. view list repost - vote - recaption comments pets heartwarming pet food coronavirus i can has cheezburger? favorite funny tweets about pets who totally lost it when they saw their reflection share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email even wonder what your cat or dog sees when he looks at his reflection in the mirror? do pets even recognize themselves? while many may think this common question is open to debate — or even a little silly — it's actually neither. in psychology circles, the mirror test is considered an important evaluation of self-awareness in animals. but until the debate is resolved, please welcome these adorable pets who had some hilarious reactions when they saw their reflection for the first time. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs pets reflection animal tweets cats funny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite when pets become our new (and clingy) co-workers share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email as people all over the world are adjusting to working from home amid the coronavirus outbreak, pet owners are finding that their furry friends are fast becoming furry colleagues. if you are also working from home, please send us a photo of your new working routine at home, with your pet. view list repost - vote - recaption comments dogs pets coworkers funny photos cats pet owners i can has cheezburger? favorite expert explains whether cats or dogs can spread the coronavirus share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via the guardian repost - vote - recaption after a dog in hong kong reportedly tested 'weak positive' for coronavirus, causing some alarm among pet owners, the guardian's helen davidson answers some of the most pressing questions about the role pets in the recent outbreak. comments dogs pets cats coronavirus i can has cheezburger? favorite celebrating women's day with sarcastic retro pics only pet ladies understand share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email happy international women's day to all those ladies who will always prefer their pet over anything else. we love and respect you all. visit anne taintor's pinterest account for more of her sarcastic world of retro women. view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny women retro pets women's day vintage i can has cheezburger? favorite 26-pound-cat named lunchbox is a finalist for cadbury bunny tryouts share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email who will be the next cadbury bunny? the suspense is killing us and the final contenders are all so amazing! each year, cadbury bunny asks folks to send in their pet for a chance of a lifetime -- to become the next cadbury bunny for their 2020 commercial! this year alone, cadbury received over 4,000 entries, which have since been narrowed down to ten incredible animals. "the quantity and quality of entries for the cadbury bunny tryouts this year just blew us away," said spokesperson ethan mandel. "now the excitement builds as we let the fans, for the first time ever, vote to help select the next cadbury bunny for our 2020 commercial." those who are interested in being a part of the historic moment can vote through the official contest website once per day through march 18. the winner will be announced on march 24th. who will you vote for? because we seriously can't decide. view list repost - vote - recaption comments commerical dogs pets cadbury finalists cats bunny animals i can has cheezburger? favorite funny pets who became even cuter after a bath share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we are not sure these pets nor their owners were quite prepared for these hilariously unflattering photos. the revenge is on its way. soon. view list repost - vote - recaption comments wet pets after bath funny pets funny dogs funny cats i can has cheezburger? favorite girl debates what to do following her boyfriend's request to choose between him and her frogs share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email reddit user, chirpchirping, posted a weird question a few days ago, looking for dating advice: "my (21f) boyfriend (22m) wants me to choose between him and my life passion (frogs)." people had a quite clear opinion regarding it. view list repost - vote - recaption comments boyfriend pets funny tweets dating frogs i can has cheezburger? favorite a light in the darkness: meet the cat rescuer of the sealed coronavirus wuhan share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via the guardian repost - vote - recaption the coronavirus outbreak has sickened more than 80,000 people, according to official counts, most of them at the wuhan district of china. the chinese officials have decided to completely seal the area and now it is estimated that more than 30,000 pets have been left stranded after their owners were stuck outside the city, not allowed to go back in. in response, people trapped in wuhan have been volunteering and checking in on the animals who were left behind. one of these angels is ye jialin, who is called the cat rescuer of wuhan. here is his unique story. comments pets china animal rescue cats coronavirus animals i can has cheezburger? favorite heartwarming photos of pets and their owners for national "love your pet day" share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email yes, they're demanding. they leave their toys everywhere. they prevent us from being away from home for more than a few hours at a time. they usually cost us thousands of dollars and just as many tears at the emergency vet. and even so, we just can't imagine life without them. national "love your pet day" on february 20 is a chance to show your cat, dog, tortoise or any loving pet you have, how you really feel. treats, pampering and all the attention that the little guy or gal can handle are a great way to celebrate. we have gathered a fine collection of pet owners posing with their pets. view list repost - vote - recaption comments animal photos pets heartwarming i can has cheezburger? favorite heroic pets: stories of animals who saved lives share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email pets are comforting animals in our lives, but in some people's lives -- they are the very reason they're still alive. in a viral facebook post, by genial, users flooded the comment section and shared stories of how their pets have saved their lives. we've gathered the top stories and shared them below. all we can say is thank goodness for our beloved pets. view list repost - vote - recaption comments hero stores dogs heroes pets heroic cats i can has cheezburger? favorite series of heartwarming pics capture womans relationship with her shiba inu share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the bond we have with our pets are so deep, it's difficult to put into words how much we love them and how strong those bonds we've created are. there is someone who managed to capture that love and bond, in a series of stunning and heartwarming pics. that photographer is yasuto. a japan-based photographer who captured the pure love and deep connection between this woman and her shiba inu. the images go beyond love, each snapshot is a work of art. these images were featured on yasuto's twitter page. view list repost - vote - recaption comments aww wholesome bond dogs photography art pets heartwarming japanese japan shiba inu animals beautiful i can has cheezburger? favorite pizzeria in new jersey is attaching lost pet flyers to pizza boxes share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email when john sanfratello, the owner of angelo's pizza restaurant in new jersey, saw a neighbor's facebook post about a missing cat, he knew he could help. the restaurant started attaching lost animal flyers to their pizza boxes as a way of helping anxious pet owners to reunite with their furry friends. what a great initiative, especially on international pizza day! view list repost - vote - recaption comments pets pizza pizza box lost animals upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter