home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog i’m pregnant! check out our pregnancy announcement with our dogs! january 21, 2020 by erin weiss leave a comment hello everyone!!! did i get your attention? i hope so! i am soo excited to share with you guys that i’m officially pregnant!! first time mom here at 36 years old and so excited and scared at the same time. i wanted to share how we announced because i think it’s pretty darn cute. i wanted a pregnancy announcement with dogs since our dogs are our family. we have three dogs, all of which are rescues. one is a rhodesian ridgeback mix (buckeye – yes my husband is a huge ohio state fan), one brittany spaniel mix (bella) and the youngest is a golden retriever mix (macy). they mean the world to us so we thought the only way to announce our exciting pregnancy was to incorporate our pups somehow. we tried to do our pregnancy announcement with dogs in two places, in the woods and on the beach of san diego. if you’ve ever tried to do a photoshoot with dogs, you know that the less distractions, the better! out of the two locations, the woods worked way better as far as the dog’s attention span goes. the beach was just too much for our three dogs to handle. every bird, person walking on the beach, bug in the sand, shadow on the sand caused them to look every direction but my camera. the woods option was much much much easier. now i’ll stop talking and show you our pregnancy announcement with our dogs that we posted to publicly announce. what do you think? (board used: amazon 23×35) didn’t they turn out just soooo cute? i’m so obsessed. we did it all with my awesome cannon rebel camera too. i hadn’t pulled that thing out in years but it surely captured the moment perfectly. tips for a successful pregnancy photoshoot with dogs get out there early. we tried to get to the beach before crowds were too bad but we wish we could have gotten there even earlier. photoshoots on beaches are already hard as is, especially while trying to wrangle 3 dogs at the same time. a tired dog is a good dog! my husband took the dogs for a 5 mile walk before we headed out to our photoshoot. they didn’t have quiet as much energy as normal and behaved better than they would have with no exercise. this may have been our biggest secret. make it obvious what you’re doing so people know not to linger in the backdrop of your photo. sometimes you just can’t fix those oblivious people though who stand right behind your photoshoot and have no idea. grrrr come on people! bring dog treats. our dogs are very food driven so every few shots we’d remind them we had the goods and give them a little treat to keep them motivated. have patience plus some more. yes it will take about 39982929 shots to get that one perfect shot, but it will all be worth it! i hope you can use my tips if you ever are brave enough to do a pregnancy announcement with dogs out in the public!! xoxo erin filed under: personal, pregnancy tagged with: announcement ideas, creative pregnancy announcements, diy photoshoot, dog photoshoot, gender reveal with dogs, pregnancy announcement, pregnancy announcement with dogs, pregnancy gender reveal ideas you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in