31 shares share tweet share share about jordan netflix vpn vpn guides jordan has been featured in: hi, i'm jordan this is me as a kid ↓ pretty cute, right? it was around this age i learned that everyone dies... even me! this realisation grew from fear to fire in a heartbeat. it motivated me to take action on my true passion: entrepreneurship. so what have i done since then? well... here's the short answer: 10 years old logged onto the internet for the first time. ↓ 12 years old started in affiliate marketing and made my first $20 online. ↓ 13 years old took my offline golfball business online thanks to paypal. ↓ 14 years old started playing online poker - turns out i was pretty good. ↓ 15 years old started a drop shipping business on ebay selling products imported from china. ↓ 18 years old ran away from home to the dominican republic to raise money for my college startup. ↓ 22 years old packed my entire life into two duffel bags and moved from buffalo, new york to budapest, hungary for a job. ↓ 23 years old quit the job after 6 months to see if i could make a living in online marketing and became a partner in an seo agency in budapest. ↓ 24 years old poured my entire life savings into launching a software company called buffered vpn. ↓ 25 years old walked across fire at tony robbins' “unleash the power within” event. life changing. go if you have the chance. ↓ 26 years old saw the most beautiful woman i’ve ever met sitting in a salad bar in budapest. found the courage to say “hi." ↓ 27 years old married the girl from the salad bar. life lesson learned: always say hello to the beautiful girl in the salad bar. ↓ 27 years old salad bar girl and i welcomed our little baby boy into the world. easily the happiest day of my life. ↓ 27 years old sold my software company a month before my 28th birthday. ↓ 28 years old became an angel investor in buffer.com, hive.org, and hashgraph by swirlds inc. ↓ now i’m 28 years old and i’m obsessed with the distributed ledger technology space (blockchain), personal growth, life hacking, finding happiness, meditation, removing limiting beliefs, and living life to the fullest. join me & let's make life extraordinary together. copyright 2017 - jordanfried.com | powered by family, fitness & coffee.