view our villas & apartments home our villas & apartments explore areas explore categories experiences specials blog for the travel trade search where do you want to go ? area south africa cape town atlantic seaboard bakoven bantry bay camps bay clifton de waterkant fresnaye green point llandudno & hout bay mouille point sea point waterfront & granger bay cape town west bloubergstrand cbd & surrounds city living gardens higgovale oranjezicht tamboerskloof vredehoek southern suburbs constantia & bishopscourt false bay newlands noordhoek tokai eastern cape garden route knysna plettenberg bay kruger national park limpopo hoedspruit north west province madikwe game reserve overberg hermanus pringle bay west coast paternoster winelands franschhoek stellenbosch mozambique vilanculos bedrooms 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or more category $pocket $$essence $$$bespoke price r1000 - r2000 r2000 - r5000 r5000 - r10000 r10000 - r20000 r20000 - r40000 r40000+ specials jacob’s ladder view special specials the boardwalk beach villa view special specials palmkloof penthouse palmkloof penthouse is one of cape town’s stylish private pads, with magnificent views towards signal hill from the spacious patio and overlooking table mountain from the south side view special specials higgo bay villa higgo bay villa has a stylish open-plan design that is light and elegantly designed with crisp, clean lines offering uninterrupted views of the city bowl through the pine trees. view special specials sensual view special specials garden villa nestled in the heart of the stellenbosch winelands, set amongst lush gardens and towering oak trees, this historic manor house offers refined luxury. view special specials bath street bath street is a modern conversion of a traditional smaller residence, designed to soak up all that is good about cape town. neatly located between kloof neck and kloof street, the elevated position makes for the perfect city escape with a view. view special specials chic views pool suite a luxurious two bedroom sophisticated newly built apartment with spectacular views of cape town. chic views is the sister to chic views studio next door and is set high up on the slopes of signal hill in a peaceful location. view special specials maudville offering four bedrooms, original wooden floors, and expansive views from its peaceful setting, maudville is a wonderful option for a stay in cape town’s city bowl area. view special specials huis langbaai this private and spacious villa within walking distance of two of the main beaches in hermanus is the ideal option for the whole family to enjoy. view special specials clifton lawns beach villa this brand new and incredibly luxurious bungalow is the ultimate beach hideaway just a few steps from cape town’s world famous clifton 4th beach. view special specials north sitting high on the slopes of signal hill with an outlook that stretches across the city to the ocean and far beyond, this villa has been designed for stylish entertainment. view special specials langholm centrally located and beautifully renovated with fresh and vibrant interior design, this studio apartment is a super option for a couple. view special specials chic views a luxurious and private cottage with a rooftop jacuzzi and spectacular views of cape town, this is a popular choice for couples or solo travellers. view special need inspiration? find your magical villa experience whatever experience you have in mind, search through our perfect pairings for that ideal villa stay. we’ve matched experiences to distinctive places to stay for creating those special memories. view all experiences > gourmet delight art lovers family friendly just for two explore our areas view our featured areas when planning your holiday the variety of areas can become confusing. our handy area guides will assist you to explore them in more detail. find information on the local community, the important attractions, and must-do activities in the area. view all areas > camps bay featured area camps bay crowds flock to this popular area which is well-known for its long stretch of white sandy beach, restaurants with tables spilling on to the sidewalk, and holiday atmosphere all year round. fresnaye featured area fresnaye situated towards the west of cape town’s city centre, fresnaye lies on the famed atlantic seaboard and boasts scenic walks and bewitching views of the atlantic ocean below. property categories pocket essence bespoke pocket villas are ideal for urban sophisticates looking for a gorgeous and understated villa at a price to suit your pocket. this is your home away from home in truly welcoming surroundings. whether travelling alone or with the whole family, a pocket villa offers a comfortable stay. it’s all about privacy and relaxation in convenient locations where wonderful memories will be made. view our pocket listings > a superior and quintessentially southern african villa experience is to be found in our essence category. expect space and privacy, superior furnishings, and a sense of luxury. essence villas are always in beautiful locations and have amazing views. they are distinctive in design and carry an expectation of special holiday moments and a desire to return for more of the same. view our essence listings > our signature portfolio of distinctive and exceptional exclusive-use properties is found in the bespoke category. selected with the discerning guest in mind, these villas are the highest category in our portfolio and, therefore, tailored to the highest standards. bespoke villas are often designed by notable architects and decorated by distinguished interior designers. private chefs are at home in their kitchens and butlers fleet-footed in their calm hospitality. additional concierge services are arranged to suit individual needs and to round out a magical stay. view our bespoke listings > from the blog visit our blog > 10 iconic things to do in the city september 30, 2019 there’s nowhere quite like cape town, a melting pot of cultures,... view > the heart of a villa july 9, 2019 the beauty of a private holiday villa is the unique sense of comfort, ... view > get the latest news from icon villas: leave this field empty if you're human: home our villas & apartments explore areas explore categories about us experiences specials blog for the travel trade terms & conditions privacy policy contact us tel: +27 21 424 0905 email: res@iconvillas.travel 40 glen cresent, higgovale, gardens 8001 copyright © 2017 icon villas, all rights reserved questions? feedback? powered by olark live chat software