back to udemy login sign up back to udemy sign up login home blog stories company careers press insights, ideas, and stories all #irl students instructors ideas & opinions udemy news udemy for business social innovation march 8, 2020 celebrating international women’s day 2020 “i like to learn that's an art and a science” katherine johnson equal rights for women has come a long way since the first international women’s day on march 8, 1908 first-wave feminism in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries tackled discrimination on the basis of sex in many locations, on many... may 14, 2019 tv meets irl: what workplace shows most resemble your workplace? sometimes work feels like a drama, sometimes more like a comedy our new “udemy snapshot: 2019 workplace happiness report” found that our workplaces can often resemble our favorite tv shows turns out, the way you perceive your office culture says a lot about your irl character so, are you a cersei lannister or a... udemy research may 1, 2019 4 ways we can avoid workplace burnout by cara brennan allamano, svp of people & places, udemy let’s face it: we all hit the wall sometimes our inboxes are overflowing, our calendars are packed, and the chat messages won’t stop but burnout is not a sustainable state of being learning and teaching are both awesome ways to recharge because they... april 17, 2019 learning is worth the investment, and the numbers back it up as a society, we spend hundreds of billions of dollars measuring the return on our financial assets yet, at the same time, we still haven’t found convincing ways of measuring the return on our investments in developing people and i get it: if my bank account pays me 1% a year, i can measure it to the penny... darren shimkus april 12, 2019 april 12, 2019: friday news roundup it’s going to be a beautiful weekend we can already feel it kick things off with the roundup! chinese scientists have put human brain genes in monkeys—and yes, they may be smarter as if we weren’t worried enough about artificial intelligence outsmarting us humans, now we’ve gotta watch our backs for... news roundup april 5, 2019 april 5, 2019: friday news roundup happy friday to all! we hope this week’s stories will help put you in a positive mindset, so you can let go of perfectionism and use criticism to your advantage of course, we’ve also got stuff about how technology is reshaping our world, from “algoraves” to unfunny robots djs of the future don't spin... news roundup march 29, 2019 march 29, 2019: friday news roundup well, would ya look at that—we’ve hit friday again ease into your weekend with some reflection on weighing job opportunities, surviving crunch-time at work, and using drawing to improve your memory and more! should you always strive to work at the most ‘prestigious’ places well… there’s a tricky... news roundup march 22, 2019 march 22, 2019: friday news roundup today’s roundup looks to the past and the future, including a nearly obsolete office staple of yesteryear and one provocative example of a human-computer mindmeld the world’s first genderless ai voice is here listen now voice assistants developed by tech giants like google and apple default to a female... news roundup march 15, 2019 march 15, 2019: friday news roundup our thoughts are with the people of new zealand following the tragedy in christchurch we stand against hate and are incredibly sad that more innocent lives have been lost to ignorance with that, we bring you a very somber news roundup new quantum physics experiment suggests that reality isn't objective we’re... news roundup march 13, 2019 the upskilling imperative: why accomplishments alone won’t earn you a promotion too many employees get promoted based on what they’ve done in the past, not because they have a proven aptitude for the next role this is especially true when individual contributors move into management positions my company’s research found overwhelming evidence that people are promoted into management... darren shimkus march 8, 2019 march 8, 2019: friday news roundup thanks for stopping by to read this week’s news we’ve got work advice for you, whether you are weighing the benefits of self-employment, feeling a mid-career crisis, losing friends after a promotion, or staring down a desk full of clutter and don’t miss your opportunity to get hired for a job doing whatever you... news roundup march 1, 2019 march 1, 2019: friday news roundup happy friday and welcome to the month of march! this week’s roundup includes a look at technology being developed to hack your brain and the inventions a tech luminary thinks will help create a better future in the meantime, quit obsessing over your mistakes! managers, coaches adjust to get most out of... news roundup posts navigation 1 2 3 … 20 all #irl students instructors ideas & opinions udemy news udemy for business social innovation udemy for business become an instructor mobile apps about us careers blog topics support affiliate english deutsch español português copyright @ 2020 udemy, inc. terms privacy policy and cookie policy intellectual property