skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: ideas 22 small bedroom ideas that are big in style looking for small bedroom furniture? check out our updated article about small space beds. calling all small space dwellers! big city apartments, vintage home layouts, and modern space downsizing all call for design that expands the possibilities of small. if you need a bedroom makeover but don’t th… by danica rog on march 24, 2020 in bedroom 14 times open shelving looked oh-so-soothing (and how to bring order to your own home) when it’s done right, there’s something about open shelving that is so soothing and aesthetically pleasing. it’s no wonder this look has been trendy for a while and doesn’t show any signs of slowing down. if you’ve been wanting to put this trend in your own home, you… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in kitchen 12 times acrylic furniture made all the difference in a room (and why it will work in your interiors) acrylic furniture, sometimes also known as lucite, has been around since the 70s. yet, this look isn't going anywhere anytime soon. the translucent material has what it takes to stand the test of time and still look the part of today's modern interiors. by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration let these 14 stunning built-in ideas inspire your next home improvement project if there’s one architectural feature that everyone loves, it’s built-in furniture. whether we’re talking about classic bookcases, a modern entertainment center or a cozy window seat, these features always turn out to be equally eye-catching and functional. what more could you ask f… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 12 gorgeous shiplap ideas that will have you channeling your inner joanna gaines there’s a reason shiplap has been a fixture on the interior design scene for a while. there’s just something about this material that brings a clean and desirable look to any space. plus, it fits nearly any design that you could dream up. don’t believe us? keep scrolling. these shi… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 14 fresh and fun patio ideas to inspire you this summer summer is finally here, which means it’s time to think about your backyard entertaining options. your exterior space doesn’t have to be boring. with just a little bit of effort, this area can become your favorite spot in the entire home. if you need a little inspiration to help you… by tara mastroeni on march 15, 2020 in inspiration back to basics: the importance of rhythm in interior design (plus, how to make it work for you) we hope you like the products we recommend. just so you are aware, freshome may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. rhythm is a fundamental component of interior design. image: m a d e r a surfaces shop a similar look:… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration the importance of contrast in interior design (plus, how to make it work for you) we hope you like the products we recommend. just so you are aware, freshome may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. contrast is an essential component of any interior design project. image: ann lowengart interiors interior design buffs know how important… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration rules to pull off a successful eclectic design (without it feeling overwhelming) we hope you like the products we recommend. just so you are aware, freshome may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. eclectic design is all about limitless expression. image: rikki snyder eclectic design is kind of hard to get a handle… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration kids’ playroom ideas: how to create a space that’s fun and functional we hope you like the products we recommend. just so you are aware, freshome may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. playrooms should be both fun and functional. image: chango & co. from a design standpoint, playrooms are incredibly fun projects. by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in other rooms 1 2 3 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss