menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: style, style & grooming, suits brett & kate mckay • february 14, 2020 if/how to wear a suit without a tie with our archives now 3,500+ articles deep, we’ve decided to republish a classic piece each friday to help our newer readers discover some of the best, evergreen gems from the past. this article was originally published in december 2017. men have complained about ties for ages. they can feel binding and hot, and seem a little strange, a little pointless, and a little like a colorful noose. if you’re a man who dislikes ties, is it advisable to wear a suit without one? can you do so and still look stylish and appropriately dressed? today we’ll provide the answers to these questions. should you wear a suit without a tie? most generally, the answer to this question is no. an entire traditional suit get-up — pants, jacket, shirt, and tie — is not a system of independent pieces, but rather interconnected parts that are designed to be worn together. a suit jacket shouldn’t be worn with different pants than the ones it came with. a dress shirt and tie don’t look good without a jacket. and the full suit doesn’t look complete without a tie. the suit itself is in fact designed with the tie in mind; its lapels, along with the collars of your dress shirt, serve as frames to the neckwear which runs down the center of your chest. a tie then pulls the suited look together and adds a bit of finish and authoritativeness to your outfit. not to mention, it simply adds a nice bit of color and visual interest to what is otherwise a fairly monochrome ensemble. wearing a tie with a suit is thus a must for all professional and more formal events and environments. showing up tieless to a place where everyone else is wearing a tie will make you look kind of dopey — conveying that you’re either lazy (the kind of guy who prefers his own comfort to showing respect for the occasion), superficially rebellious (“okay, i consent to wearing a suit, but i draw the line at putting on a tie!”), or sartorially clueless. even for more business-casual occasions, if the event is dressed-down enough to forgo the tie with your suit, you’ll typically be better off wearing a sport coat without a tie, as those two style elements better complement each other. however, all this being said, wearing a suit without a tie actually isn’t a bad look. there are times where you don’t want to project conventional authority, or even look entirely “complete,” and ditching the tie can be a fine, stylish way to dress down a suit. it’s a viable option for certain occasions and events like a casual outdoor summer wedding (hot weather in general makes the tieless suit a more acceptable choice), cocktail party, or art gallery opening. it can also work in environments in which you normally wear a suit but have been called into an emergency meeting or sent into the field to work on a project outside the norm. it’s notable that politicians seem to increasingly be forgoing the tie outside of more formal campaign events, perhaps to offer a more open and accessible look to voters and constituents. to pull off the look yourself, you’ve just got to keep a few guidelines in mind. how to wear a suit without a tie the main issue with skipping the tie when wearing a suit is that it’s apt to be read either as an unintentional omission — you forgot a tie or didn’t understand the dress code — or as a merely comfort-driven decision — you’ve been drinking too much, and are feeling flushed and like you need to tear off your tie to better get down on the dance floor. the corrective to this issue, naturally, is to take steps to ensure that going tieless seems less like a sloppy oversight and more like a deliberate style choice. you know how to dress, and you’re ditching the tie on purpose. nail the fit. fit is always key, and it’s even more important in the absence of a tie, when your get-up runs a greater risk of going sideways into sloppiness. wear a more casual/stylish, non-business suit. skipping the tie while wearing a more formal, structured, conservative, dark-colored business suit just feels like you were willing to start something, but didn’t want to go all the way; it exudes that “incomplete” feel that mars the tieless look. instead, forgo the tie only when you’re wearing a more casual/stylish suit that fits better with dressed-down social occasions. think lighter colors and fabrics, less structured, slimmer notch lapels. wear a less formal shirt. same idea here. your shirt choice will come into greater focus in the absence of a tie, and a more casual shirt telegraphs that this absence was an intentional choice. go with a classic oxford, or a button-down in a chambray, denim, or patterned fabric. mind the collar. the collar of your dress shirt acts as an important and flattering frame to your face. but without a tie to hold it together, the collar of your dress shirt can flatten and flop around underneath the structure of your jacket and look incongruous and sloppy. so don’t wear a shirt where the collar is going to spread out excessively and lie horizontally. rather, you want the collar to stand up fairly straight and keep a nice vertical orientation. to accomplish this, make sure your shirt is well-ironed (add starch as needed), and use collar stays. a button-down is a good choice as its collar will better maintain its shape. undo two buttons. the tieless suit is not a buttoned-up look, so neither should your shirt be. you’ll definitely want to unbutton at least one, and typically two of your shirt buttons to evince the right level of casual nonchalance. make sure your undershirt isn’t showing; if you wear one, you’ll want to opt for the v-neck style, rather than a crewneck. undo any more than two buttons, and you’re entering gigolo territory. add visual interest with other accessories. a tie contributes a good deal of color and visual interest to a suit. in its absence, add some other accessories that will snazz things up and attract people’s eyes. a nice watch, lapel pin, and/or a pocket square will do the trick. a white, square-folded pocket square may be a bit too formal for wearing with a tieless get-up; consider a colored or patterned pocket square, tucked in with the puff fold (click here to learn the different pocket square folds). shine your shoes. without a tie serving as a suit’s focal point, more attention will be paid to other details of your outfit, so make sure you’ve got them all right. that includes making sure your shoes are looking spiffy; you can find a complete guide to shining them here. generally speaking, wearing a suit with a tie simply looks better. so when you’re in doubt, put on a tie; if the occasion doesn’t turn out to call for one, you can always take it off. nonetheless, in the right environment, worn in the right way — that is, with confidence and stylish intention — wearing a suit without a tie can certainly work. related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// beard grooming 101: the lowdown on products and routine 10 things your father should have taught you about style how to find the natural part in your hair how to clean a baseball cap view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy