skip to content ifpma twitter ifpma linkedin ifpma youtube ifpma slideshare ifpma flickr ifpma rss search for: primary menu who we are ifpma in brief our governance and leadership our membership full members associations companies affiliate members our experts join us access accelerated head of operations topics news center news releases blog global health matters science matters contributors statements latest news from our members resources publications news releases statements position papers publications external studies infographics event highlights multimedia interviews podcasts videos photos slides ifpma interactive platforms global health progress 50 years of global health progress events upcoming ifpma events geneva pharma forums assemblies other ifpma events ifpma in external events past ifpma events geneva pharma forums assemblies other ifpma events ifpma in external events partners bcr discovering medicines and vaccines strengthening regulatory systems building trust boosting innovation and access tackling global health challenges economic footprint ip pharma by numbers sustainable innovation value of innovation spotlight value of innovation biosimilars biotherapeutic medicines falsified medicines import testing pharma by numbers pharmacovigiliance quality, safety, and efficacy regulatory conferences regulatory system strengthening / harmonization supply chain the africa regulatory network (arn) the arn: le réseau africain de réglementation pharmaceutique spotlight pharmacovigiliance new ifpma code of practice (2019) ifpma code of practice 2019 - our ethos code training code of practice operating procedure code of practice: how to file a complaint? complaint submission form cases consensus framework for ethical collaboration spotlight new ifpma code of practice (2019) access to medicines health technology assessment ip pharma by numbers trade spotlight access to medicines ageing antimicrobial resistance cancer child and maternal health diabetes do you mind? campaign ebola falsified medicines health partnerships hiv/aids humanitarian and disaster relief aid influenza vaccine malaria mental and neurological disorders neglected tropical diseases non-communicable diseases novel coronavirus (covid-19) novel coronavirus (covid-19) – industry’s r&d efforts novel coronavirus (covid-19) – industry’s support on the ground pandemic influenza preparedness pharma by numbers psoriasis rare diseases seasonal influenza supply chain sustainable development goals tuberculosis universal health coverage vaccines innovation vaccines protect communities vaccines sustainability value of immunization viral hepatitis workplace wellness zika virus spotlight universal health coverage if you missed these, have a look at our ifpma youtube channel to watch our two wha side events. pharma ceo/top executives global response to covid-19 - virtual press briefing on 19 march 2020, the global biopharmaceutical industry, represented by high-level executives/ ceo’s, took part in a virtual media briefing highlighting industry’s efforts and future commitments to address the current global coronavirus (covid-19) crisis. watch more covid-19 as a science-driven industry that aims to address some of the world’s biggest health care challenges, the research-based biopharmaceutical industry is uniquely positioned to respond rapidly to covid-19. read more global health progress - collaborating for a sustainable future global health progress is an interactive knowledge hub highlighting over 200 collaborations between the innovative biopharmaceutical industry &; more than 850 diverse partners to support the sdgs & drive cross-sector collaboration. explore our collaborations & learn more explore resources publications achieving a healthier and sustainable future for all - policy perspectives on universal health coverage from the innovative biopharmaceutical industry read more resources publications stepping up the fight: industry collaboration to end hiv, tuberculosis and malaria now is the time to step up our fight against hiv, tb and malaria — we must do more, innovate more, and most importantly, partner more. read more resources publications thought leader series on vaccines in this special series on vaccines, ifpma invites key opinion leaders to advance thinking and ideas on key issues that can drive efforts to allow the “miracle” of life-saving vaccines to reach all. read more 50 years of global health progress report this report traces global health progress over the past 50 years. it reviews some of the research-based biopharmaceutical industry’s major scientific advances, as well as acknowledging challenges the industry faces and areas of unfinished business. read more new ifpma code of practice 2019 new ifpma code of practice will enter into force on 1st january 2019 new code previous next ifpma in brief ifpma represents the research-based pharmaceutical companies and associations across the globe. the research-based pharmaceutical industry’s 2 million employees research, develop and provide medicines and vaccines that improve the life of patients worldwide. based in geneva, ifpma has official relations with the united nations and contributes industry expertise to help the global health community find solutions that improve global health. learn more tackling global health challenges the research-based biopharmaceutical industry is proud to be playing its part in the quest to find effective and sustainable solutions to today’s most pressing health concerns. read more boosting innovation and access the research-based biopharmaceutical industry is thinking creatively about its innovation and business models to meet new challenges, and is working in collaboration with different players from the scientific community. read more strengthening regulatory systems patients everywhere should be treated with high quality medicines and vaccines. science-based guidelines provide direction for the development, manufacture, and supply of medicines. read more building trust the healthcare community and the public must be confident that research-based biopharmaceutical industry and their employees, wherever they operate, communicate and act in an ethical and professional manner. read more discovering medicines and vaccines never have people lived longer and never have so many children been saved from dying in the first years of life. medicines and vaccines extend and improve the quality of life for many people. read more previous next our resources publications infographics videos news releases interviews statements featured resources : publications global health progress – collaborating for a sustainable future global health progress is a new knowledge hub highlighting over 200 collaborations between the innovative biopharmaceutical industry and more than 850 partners to support the sdgs. users can explore collaborations by sdg target, disease area, program strategy, and more. users are also encouraged to connect with partners via the platform... read more other resources : publications ifpma note for guidance on patient and patient organization interactions read more additional questions to ifpma code of practice 2019 / practical examples read more featured resources : infographics health for all in africa - our collaborations supporting the sdgs read more other resources : infographics infographic - the complex journey of a vaccine read more infographic - eac joint assessment procedures read more featured resources : videos pharma ceo/top executives global response to covid-19 - virtual press briefing - 19 march 2020 (video) read more other resources : videos the biopharmaceutical industry commitments to tackle the coronavirus pandemic (video playlist) read more the influenza problem (video) read more featured resources : news releases global biopharmaceutical industry pulling out all the stops to address coronavirus public health crisis 19 march 2020, geneva – the international federation of pharmaceutical manufacturers and associations (ifpma), representing the world’s leading biopharmaceutical companies, today confirmed that having already mobilized on an unprecedented scale to respond to the covid-19 pandemic, they commit to do more. the biopharmaceutical industry commits to accelerate its effort to... read more other resources : news releases pharma industry and patient groups collaborate on a new guidance note on best ... read more global health progress launched to drive cross-sectoral collaborations in support of the sustainable ... read more featured resources : interviews greg perry - ifpma moderated panels @pre-icdra 2018 read more other resources : interviews ifpma @diaeurope read more ifpma 2017 interview series: experts take on 9th asia regulatory conference read more featured resources : statements global biopharmaceutical industry commitment to address coronavirus public health crisis read more other resources : statements ifpma backgrounder - covid-19 read more ifpma and who global research and innovation forum read more join ifpma our membership has three levels tailored to meet specific needs. full members have to be r&d-based pharmaceutical companies or national associations whose membership includes innovative pharmaceutical companies; associate members of r&d-based pharmaceutical companies and national associations whose permanent staff numbers are less than five, and affiliate members that are organizations, associations, companies and institutions who are supportive of the r&d-based learn more our blog 26 mar 2020 interview - bbc world newshour - biopharmaceutical industry commitments on covid-19 by thomas b. cueni thomas cueni, ifpma director general, spoke to bbc newshour on 19 march about the commitments made by the global pharmaceutical industry in addressing the covid-19 global health crisis. industry has the tools and solutions to fight and defeat the novel strain of coronavirus. in this unique situation, industry commits to tackle this issue collaboratively - not just among the industry, but with who and with other health agencies. there has already been an intense and... read more 25 mar 2020 the global biopharmaceutical industry’s united front against covid-19 by thomas b. cueni in recent weeks, we have seen an unprecedented rapid response from governments, international organisations, health care professionals, the biopharmaceutical industry and many others to respond to one of the biggest global health crisis the world has experienced in recent decades: the novel coronavirus, or so-called covid-19. both professionally but also personally i think it's remarkable how far we have come in two months. r&d efforts... read more 19 mar 2020 beyond childhood: the case for life-course immunisation by laetitia bigger this was originally published in health awareness uk on thursday, march 19, 2020. is it possible to protect all populations from certain diseases, while keeping health system expenses within a reasonable range? let’s look at implementing a life-course approach to immunisation… the global population continues to age. in 2020, children under five years will be outnumbered by people of 60 or more years. this means prevention... read more previous next latest tweets amidst the current pandemic, and the exceptional efforts of coordination to fight #covid19, one thing is certain, a… https://t.co/wcdpgfj6tv 4 8 - march 27, 2020 sustainable solutions are required to tackle #covid19 ➡️ “covid-10 is likely to become a seasonal disease, so a las… https://t.co/ayemkuxnig 3 4 - march 27, 2020 last week @ifpma dg @thomascueni discussed our members’ commitments to fight #covid19 with @bbcnewshour. find the f… https://t.co/54qglijwut - march 27, 2020 which lessons from past outbreaks of #sars, #mers, #zika and #ebola can be used in the fight against #covid19?… https://t.co/copzdjvpya 3 2 - march 27, 2020 as the #covid19 pandemic spreads, the biopharmaceutical industry, along with a wide range of partners and key stake… https://t.co/2uodzwcgh2 5 4 - march 27, 2020 chemin des mines 9 p.o. box 195 1211 geneva 20 switzerland +41 22 338 32 00 info@ifpma.org careers contact us privacy policy terms of use access to our extranet ifpma twitter ifpma linkedin ifpma youtube ifpma slideshare ifpma flickr ifpma rss designed and produced by acw ^ back to top cookie policy this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn more decline allow cookies