skip to main content open navigation menu menu story saved to revisit this article, select my⁠ ⁠account, then view saved stories.close alert closesign in subscribesearch search hive business technology politics the players hwd movies television awards reviews vanities celebrity fashion beauty royals complete archive books ijeoma oluo and aminatou sow on sally kohn’s book and what comes next “we need to talk about the work that people of privilege should be doing, not how many more ways we can harm ourselves so that our humanity will be seen.” by erin vanderhoof april 20, 2018 facebook twitter email aminatou sow speaks onstage at 'activism, allyship and where we go from here' during the 2017 sxsw in austin, texas.by robert a tobiansky/getty images. facebook twitter email martin luther king jr. day, 2015, is like groundhog day for ijeoma oluo—she’s been living it over and over. engaging in a “personal experiment,” she responded to every hateful tweet she received with a quote from dr. king; after productive back-and-forth, in which she responded to a racist troll with enough empathy that he eventually apologized, her efforts went viral. but it wasn’t a proud moment for oluo, a writer based in seattle—it was stressful. “that was a long painful day to get one teenager to just be like ‘i’m sorry,’” she said in a recent phone call. “i would love to see the long-term systemic impact on structural racism that had compared to the impact it had on my well-being.” “my friend requests on facebook filled up immediately,” she said. “white people were reaching out to me, asking me to be their first black friend. what they wanted to see was a black woman doing all of the work. to say, ‘see? the real problem is that you should all be nicer.’” oluo said she steels herself for the resurfacing of the tweets every m.l.k. day, but was surprised to see them come up in april this year. a condensed version of her story, complete with transcribed tweets, appears in cnn commentator sally kohn’s book the opposite of hate, which was published on april 10. oluo only found out when a friend reached out to tell her—a day after another prominent black woman, the call your girlfriend podcast host aminatou sow, had shared her own complaints about being quoted in kohn’s book. the passage in question sets up a binary: in reaching out to a twitter troll, oluo is depicted as taking the high road. in sow’s quote, which she says she does not remember saying, she is not. the quote itself is brief, a bit inscrutable, and presented largely out of context after a recounting of oluo’s story: “why is it that black women are always asked to do the work . . . once you’re provoked, the rules of engagement change and i can fucking kill you and i would be justified in doing that.” kohn goes on to acknowledge that “there is inherently something unjust in suggesting that the burden to turn the other cheek should fall on those who have been hit hardest. certainly i understand that resistance.” but she comes to determine, “i hope that even in the darkest moments and corners of the world, including those of the internet, we can all be more like ijeoma oluo.” both oluo and sow went public on social media with their sides of the story; kohn apologized to sow, and she and her publisher agreed to donate $500 to the charity radical monarchs in addition to removing sow’s name from digital and future editions of the book. kohn, who has followed oluo on social media for some time but did not contact her before or after the book was published, maintains that the purpose of her book was not to doubt the issue of hate in america. “that to me should be settled,” she said in a phone interview this week. “what we have to start talking about is what to do about it.” but for oluo, who acknowledges that her twitter exchange was public and has not asked for changes to the book, this is not a story about fact-checking in book publishing or asking permission. “we need to talk about the work that people of privilege should be doing,” she said, “not how many more ways we can harm ourselves so that our humanity will be seen.” advertisement “it’s not just disrespect of my work,” she continued. “but it’s being used as an idea that will harm black people, and that’s my concern. my concern is the power and privilege. . . . we have other people telling our stories in a way that suits them.” from seal press. oluo sees a huge irony in the false contrast being drawn between her and sow. oluo says she’s based her career on convincing people that anti-black racism isn’t about the kind of interpersonal hate that might come up in a twitter fight, but a response to the systemically racist world we live in. in oluo’s recent book, so you want to talk about race, she discusses at some length the kind of contrast laid out in kohn’s book, calling it the “martin-malcolm dichotomy.” “it’s the idea that [malcolm x] was a separationist and was bad, and was filled with hate, and [m.l.k. jr.] was good and light, and was led by love,” she said. “we were always taught that we wanted to be martins and not malcolms, and that if we loved each other then we would move ahead. . . . it is a narrative for culture as a whole, and it’s something that i still get. people will tell me that i sound like malcolm x, as though that’s an insult. but he was a brilliant man filled with love for black people. and the people who say, ‘oh, you need to be more like martin’ know absolutely nothing about martin.” though she maintains she didn’t say the quote kohn attributed to her, sow was willing to discuss the idea behind it. “anger can be a productive feeling,” sow said over the phone. “nobody has just done things for marginalized people without it.” but she cautions against confusing anger and hate. “for black people, just expressing ourselves is coded as anger,” she said. sow was born in guinea, and moving to the united states helped her understand this—she said people frequently thought she was angry when she was not. she thinks that focusing on black anger or black kindness misses the point: “we don’t have the power to oppress people,” she said. kohn has also given a lot of thought to definitions of anger. “i think there’s a huge difference between hate and anger,” she said. “i want people to be angry about crumbling school infrastructure and racial disparities in policing and incarceration. i want people to be angry about economic inequality. . . . that’s righteous anger and it moves you to action.” but to oluo, regardless of intent, kohn’s book fell into the decades-old trap of policing appropriate black response to racism. “we are consistently told that we are not like martin, and we are why racism persists,” she said. “black people are told this whenever we get angry about the things we have the right to be angry about and whenever we try to set boundaries because we need them.” when thinking about that day in 2015, oluo said, “once it turned into a broader narrative, i was immediately annoyed and even embarrassed. it took about a half a day for me to say that i wish i had never done this.” had she known kohn was writing the book, oluo thinks she would have been able to give some helpful advice. “it was something i did for myself, not something i did to put a dent in white supremacy. if anything, something like that going viral further entrenches the idea of white supremacy, that we just need to work harder as people of color,” she said. “i would have put this in context for what it meant for me personally. and i would have helped her see what her privilege has stopped her from seeing—the amount of pain that exercise brought.” royal watch get the latest chatter, from kensington palace and beyond, straight to your inbox. enter your e-mail address sign up will be used in accordance with our privacy policy. facebook twitter instagram pinterest youtube more from vanity fair promotions newsletter subscribe digital edition inside the issue contact contact vf customer service advertising careers condé nast store reprints / permissions vf media kit sitemap accessibility help © 2020 condé nast. all rights reserved. use of this site constitutes acceptance of our user agreement (updated 1/1/20) and privacy policy and cookie statement (updated 1/1/20) and your california privacy rights. do not sell my personal information vanity fair may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our affiliate partnerships with retailers. the material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of condé nast. ad choices cn entertainment united statesu.k.italymexicospainfrance