kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! kottke.org posts about ikea see also... video food tv advertising remix amazon photography the simpsons books business art design nyc ikea instructions for covid-19 quarantine posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2020 instructions for staying at home during the pandemic, courtesy of ikea israel. (thx, caroline) more about... covid-19 ikea ads via carbon ikea recreates famous tv living rooms using only their furniture posted by jason kottke may 31, 2019 for an ad campaign running in the united arab emirates, ikea recreated the famous tv living rooms from three shows using only ikea furniture and housewares. see if you can guess which shows these are from… (via @mkobach) more about... advertising friends ikea remix stranger things the simpsons tv ikea hacks for people with disabilities posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2019 ikea furniture is so ubiquitous that all sorts of hacks and modifications have been designed by fans to coax new uses out of familiar shelves and tables. now ikea itself has gotten into the hacks game by partnering with a pair of israeli non-profits to develop modifications to their products to help make them more accessible and useful for people with disabilities. the 3d model for each of the hacks is available for free download and can then be constructed with a 3d printer. cane by me is a ledge for a cane or walking stick that attaches to the malm bed frame: glass bumper is a wheelchair bumper that protects the glass doors on billy bookshelves: couch lift fits around the legs of the karlstad sofa, raising it further off the ground for easier sitting & standing: (via fast company) more about... disability ikea video robot successfully assembles an ikea chair posted by jason kottke apr 19, 2018 fittingly using only off-the-shelf components, a team of researchers in singapore built a robot capable of assembling a stefan chair from ikea (minus actually bolting it together). the assembly time was around 20 minutes, about 5-10 minutes slower than a typical human would take. it took a few attempts to get it right. early on, the robots dropped wooden pins, let go of parts too soon, and performed moves that did more to dismantle the chair than assemble it. some moves required a part to be held by both robots at the same time, and since industrial robots are far stronger than ikea furniture, a number of mistakes ended badly. “we bought four chair kits and broke a few of them,” said pham. once the robot can fully assemble ikea furniture in near-human timeframes, i propose we stop all robotics and ai research. when humanity no longer has to struggle with ikea assembly, we can live like scandinavian kings and not have to worry about ai murderbots killing us all (before they get bored, of course). more about... ikea robots video ikea-style instructions for programming algorithms posted by jason kottke apr 11, 2018 sándor p. fekete, sebastian morr, and sebastian stiller came up with these ikea-style instructions for algorithms and data structures used in computer science. in addition to the three pictured above, there are also instructions for several other searches, trees, sorts, and scans. more about... ikea programming remix dictionary of ikea product name meanings posted by jason kottke oct 16, 2017 the ikea dictionary is a listing of the meanings of the names of more than 1300 ikea products. part of what makes ikea unique is their product names. each name means something, often in a funny or ambigious way. when ikea went international, they decided to use the same swedish names everywhere. this makes sense from an organizational sanity standpoint, but it deprives most of the world of this particular joy. some examples: jerrik - ancient scandinavian boy name trolsk - magic/enchanted, troll-like mörrum - city in south east sweden snitta - (to) cut (flowers) solvar - norwegian boy name väggis - made up -is word ‘vägg’ means ‘wall’, so ‘väggis’ could mean ‘wall thingie’ more about... ikea language lists oddly ikea (aka ikea asmr) posted by jason kottke aug 16, 2017 videos designed to invoke asmr (“autonomous sensory meridian response”) in some viewers have grown in popularity in recent years. the videos feature soothing sounds and visuals (gentle whispering, soft scratching, watching a task being diligently performed) that are meant to provoke a response of brain tingling or a state of bliss in some people. in an attempt to ride the wave, ikea has made a 25-minute advertisement for college dorm furniture that uses common asmr techniques. i dunno, does cerebral euphoria make people want to buy closet organizers? more about... advertising ikea video ikea’s “cook this page” posters posted by jason kottke jun 20, 2017 for a promotion in a canadian store, ikea developed a series of posters that help you cook dinner. you lay the poster down, place the food directly on it according to the printed directions, and then you fold up the ends to cook it — the posters double as cooking parchment. (via fast company) more about... cooking food ikea video ikea products are now available on amazon posted by jason kottke jun 14, 2017 ikea products have long been available on amazon from 3rd-party resellers, but now ikea is officially selling hundreds of their products on amazon. among the items that caught my eye are the iconic blue frakta bags, the best kids’ drinking glasses ever made (we have dozens of these…love them), a kids’ foot stool, the swedish meatball sauce packs, and those ubiquitous glimma tea lights. also, lots of rugs, picture frames, candles, bedding materials, and many of the other things that are good to stock up on. (via fast company) update: i am an idiot. all this ikea stuff on amazon is from resellers…the same stuff that’s been available for years on the site. (same deal with all the muji items on amazon.) i mean, they are still genuine ikea products and some of it isn’t even available from ikea’s online store. anyway, not such a huge deal. i was wondering why ikea would be adopting such a if-you-can’t-beat-‘em-join-‘em attitude towards amazon; turns out they’re still just trying to beat ‘em. update: just the other day, reuters reported that ikea will test selling items through third-party websites. “i leave unsaid on which (platforms), but we will test and pilot, to see ‘what does this mean, what does digital shopping look like in future and what do digital shopping centers mean?’,” he said. ikea, known for its warehouse-like stores, has recently restructured to give its retail arm more freedom. the swedish firm has never sold its goods through another company and is also trying new smaller store formats and stepping up integration of stores and online to adapt to new ways of shopping. (via @checkdisout) more about... amazon ikea 18th century instagram posted by jason kottke aug 05, 2016 a cute ikea ad imagines what instagram might have been like in the 18th century…it involves a painter and a lot of driving around in a carriage soliciting likes. more about... advertising ikea instagram photography video the simpsons couch gag in the style of an ikea instruction manual posted by jason kottke may 23, 2016 the couch gag on last night simpsons episode was illustrated in the style of an ikea instruction manual. see also the ikea instructions for making dick in the box. more about... ikea the simpsons tv video cool ikea hack: make a bicycle out of a frosta stool posted by jason kottke jan 05, 2016 with just a few modifications, samuel bernier and andreas bhends made a working bicycle out of a pair of ikea frosta stools. (via @kellianderson) more about... andreas bhends bicycles ikea samuel bernier video “life in ikea is impossible” posted by jason kottke nov 15, 2013 the trailer for alfonso cuarón’s “ikea”, a film about a man and a woman lost in the vast nothingness of ikea. (via ★interesting) more about... alfonso cuaron gravity ikea movies trailers you can buy stuff from ikea on amazon! posted by jason kottke feb 15, 2012 one of the frustrations people have with ikea is that you can’t order online from them (at least in the us). you have to go to the store or hire someone to go to the store for you. not sure when they started doing this, but you can now buy a bunch of ikea products from amazon…some items even have free shipping if you’re a prime user. unfortunately, they don’t sell the meatballs but they do carry the swedish meatball sauce and lingonberry jam. (via @alexandrak) update: hmm, it seems you can shop online at ikea…but the shipping and handling costs are insane ($129 to ship a $299 chair). also of note if you hadn’t already guessed…the products on amazon are often more expensive than they are at ikea. mark up! update: further clarification in case it’s unclear…ikea is not selling this stuff on amazon, it’s all third-party resellers. so caveat emptor and all that (and that goes triple for ebay). ikea wants you in the store, not shopping online. more about... amazon ikea as the book business changes, so do the bookshelves posted by jason kottke sep 09, 2011 ikea is modifying their popular billy bookcase to hold more than just books. to see how profoundly the book business is changing, watch the shelves. next month ikea will introduce a new, deeper version of its ubiquitous “billy” bookcase. the flat-pack furniture giant is already promoting glass doors for its bookshelves. the firm reckons customers will increasingly use them for ornaments, tchotchkes and the odd coffee-table tome-anything, that is, except books that are actually read. in the first five months of this year sales of consumer e-books in america overtook those from adult hardback books. just a year earlier hardbacks had been worth more than three times as much as e-books, according to the association of american publishers. amazon now sells more copies of e-books than paper books. the drift to digits will speed up as bookshops close. borders, once a retail behemoth, is liquidating all of its american stores. as the bookshelf industry scrambles to retool, a kindle cozy industry rises. (via @austinkleon) more about... amazon books business ikea ikea cookbook posted by jason kottke sep 27, 2010 ikea is coming out with a cookbook — the name translates as “homemade is best” — and the photography looks great. more about... books food ikea ikea art posted by jason kottke feb 10, 2010 art made from ikea products. greg, your project didn’t make the cut. more about... art ikea design actually within reach posted by jason kottke nov 30, 2009 greg allen finally finished his version of enzo mari’s 1974 autoprogettazione dining table made from wood from ikea’s ivar shelving system. an example of the mari’s original table went at auction a few years ago for $14,000; allen paid $120 for his ikea raw materials. more about... design enzo mari greg allen ikea 1965 ikea catalog posted by jason kottke aug 26, 2009 from the looks of the 1965 ikea catalog, the company could make a killing selling that same furniture today. maybe they should do that rather than switching to verdana. (thx, paolo) update: from a museum display, a photograph of a bunch of old ikea catalog covers. more about... ikea ikea as tourist attraction posted by jason kottke aug 25, 2009 for many chinese, the ikea in beijing is not just a store, it’s a lifestyle amusement park with free admission. bai mapped out a five-hour outing. first, they had hot dogs and soft ice cream cones at noon. then they enjoyed a long rest lounging on the beds. bai kicked off her sandals and sprawled out on a tromso bunk bed. the 36-year-old homemaker made herself comfortable and even answered passing shoppers’ questions about the quality of the mattress. “it’s soft and a great buy at this price,” she told a young woman, pointing to a dangling price tag. after that, bai and her family took group pictures. by 5 p.m., it was time for another meal, so they headed to the cafeteria and ate braised mushrooms with rice. more about... beijing china ikea assembling ikea groceries into meals posted by jason kottke jan 14, 2009 serious eats contributor michele humes buys some groceries at ikea and prepares some unexpected dishes from them, including canapés made from swedish flatbread, crab paste, and lumpfish caviar. don’t know why, but it never occurred to me to make spaghetti and meatballs using ikea meatballs. (thx, david) more about... food ikea free red hook ikea taxi posted by jason kottke may 18, 2008 when the new ikea is finished, it’ll be easier than ever to get to red hook from manhattan. the serious eats crew noticed that the free ferry deposits interested eaters about four blocks from the renowned red hook soccer taco vendors. more about... food ikea nyc jason salavon’s field guide to style & posted by jason kottke nov 15, 2007 jason salavon’s field guide to style & color, a reproduction of the 2007 ikea catalog with everything but the structure and color excluded. you may remember mr. salavon from his composite photographs and videos of blowjobs, late night talk show hosts, and playboy centerfolds. more about... art ikea jason salavon photography playboy sex big box watch is a map that posted by jason kottke apr 20, 2007 big box watch is a map that displays future big box store openings in the us. the site currently tracks best buy, home depot, ikea, jcpenney, kohl’s, lowe’s, target, and wal-mart. more about... bestbuy business google maps homedepot ikea maps usa wal-mart ikea hacker is a site that highlights posted by jason kottke feb 18, 2007 ikea hacker is a site that highlights using ikea furniture and products in creative ways. more about... furniture hacks ikea remix ikea instructions for making dick in the box posted by jason kottke dec 22, 2006 last saturday, justin timberlake and andy samberg collaborated on a music video for a new holiday gift idea: dick in the box. if you haven’t seen the video yet, go now and then come back…it’s pretty funny and you won’t understand the rest of this if you haven’t seen it. so go! you back? so, my favorite part of the song is the instructions and yesterday while we were alternating between watching the video like 50 times and assembling some ikea furniture for the office, i had the obvious idea. ikea instructions for making dick in a box: more dick in a box: mr. and mrs. potatohead version, line rider version, some guy dancing in his living room with a box fastened to his crotch with a belt version, and a this is either brilliant or completely stupid (durrr! durrr!) video response. more about... ikea justintimberlake line rider music musicvideos parody saturday night live tv video on the perfection of tiffany’s “little blue posted by jason kottke sep 21, 2006 on the perfection of tiffany’s “little blue box” and how other luxury labels have failed to follow its seductive packaging lead. while apple isn’t strictly a luxury brand (they’re more of an everyday luxury brand like ikea or muji…the luxury of well-designed items but without the price), but they definitely pay a lot of attention to their packaging. (via nickbaum) more about... apple branding ikea muji tiffany photos of the ikea everyday fabulous! exhibit, posted by jason kottke jul 06, 2006 photos of the ikea everyday fabulous! exhibit, featuring ikea products improving daily life on the streets of manhattan, including comfy couches at bus stops, picture frames for lost cat photos, stools near payphones, and blankets for every seat at the movies. more about... design ikea nyc photography a selection from george w. bush’s eavesdropping posted by jason kottke jan 10, 2006 a selection from george w. bush’s eavesdropping tapes: matthew barney and bjork place an ikea phone order. “ask if they have an aluminum igloo.” more about... bjork funny george w. bush ikea matthewbarney politics kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives