skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download image hover effects for wpbakery page builder by nasir details reviews installation support development description best image hover effects plugin for wordpress image hover effects is a wpbakery extension an amazing plugin that will allow user to add 80+ hover effects to images with captions.this add-on add circles and squares css3 transitions of hover thumbnail to the wpbakery page builder. most of the transitions have 4 type of directions, thumbnail support lightbox or custom link, give user a lot of flexibility to add a grid gallery. wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) plugin must be installed and activated to use this plugin. after you activate the required plugins, the elements should be available for use in wpbakery page builder. live demo | contact | support forum qucik links demo (features) demo 2 (square & circle) contact us support forum pro features interactive banners post effects and modal popup upgrade to pro features 80+ hover effects based on ihover css3 pure css3 animations super easy installation image upload from media custom font size both heading & description custom background color for caption custom settings for every single image external link for each hover item open link in new tab 100% responsive easy and fastest to setup grid option shortcode generator all major browser supported screenshots easy to use interface. installation go to plugins in your dashboard and select ‘add new’. search for ‘image hover effects for wpbakery page builder and install it. go to pages or posts and add “image hover effects” in content section in your pages. reviews i love this plugin! linda mccolley april 5, 2019 i truly love this plugin and how easy it is to work with. beautiful effects and so many to choose from! the developer is so quick with help, i can't say enough about them and the plugin. thanks so much great plugin! supportwebsites may 31, 2018 works perfectly, and looks great works perfectly rameez iqbal january 23, 2017 i used it for my portfolio gallery and it worked without wasting so much time on it. recommended for every visual composer user read all 3 reviews contributors & developers “image hover effects for wpbakery page builder” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors nasir179125 translate “image hover effects for wpbakery page builder” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 2.0 updated: border style addition of text alignment vertically center 1.0 first version meta version: 2.0 last updated: 3 weeks ago active installations: 5,000+ wordpress version: 3.5 or higher tested up to: 5.3.0 tags: image caption hover for wpbakery page builderimage hover effects for wpbakery page buildervisual composervisual composer image hover effects css3wpbakery page builder advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 3 4 stars 0 3 stars 0 2 stars 0 1 star 0 contributors nasir179125 support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 1 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.