menu product tour pricing testimonials blog support try it free sign in product tour pricing testimonials blog support try it free sign in blog improve your user experience by listening to your customers. topics close topics menu marketing research & insights behind the scenes startups hotjar vs lucky orange: which one should you choose? march 18, 2020 by hotjar team both hotjar and lucky orange are useful for analyzing online user behavior: they help you move past traditional analytics so you can understand how and why your visitors behave the way they do on your site and create an experience they will love. a list of resources that might help if you're new to remote work march 11, 2020 by fio dossetto wherever you are in the world, you may be experiencing remote work for the first time or getting ready to do so. celebrating the women of hotjar march 06, 2020 by fio dossetto it's almost international women's day, and here at hotjar's content hq it felt like a good time to celebrate the women who propel hotjar forward all year round—the ones who write the c… hotjar vs google analytics: it’s not an either/or (and why you should use both) march 02, 2020 by hotjar team if you came here thinking you have to choose between google analytics and hotjar, let us stop you right there: hotjar is not meant to be a google analytics replacement, and we do not recommend that y… learn from real users: get started with website usability testing today february 24, 2020 by tawni sattler website usability is at the heart of customer-centricity. if you give your potential customers a difficult, complex, or broken experience, it’s unlikely they’ll stick with you for long. how to find bugs and issues after changing your website february 17, 2020 by fio dossetto every time you update or redesign your website, there’s a risk of something unpredictable happening that breaks it—and every second where something’s going wrong is costing you money. 4 practical ways to improve your ecommerce customer journey (with examples from made.com) february 11, 2020 by tawni sattler either as a consumer or an online business owner, you’ve experienced the ecommerce customer journey.as a consumer, you came, you saw, you purchased.as an online business owner, you watched prospectiv… hotjar vs fullstory: which one should you choose? january 28, 2020 by hotjar team let’s start with a few assumptions about why you’ve ended up on this page:you want to better understand your users’ behavior and can’t find the answers you need using your existing analytics toolsyou… survey questions 101: over 70 survey question examples + types of surveys and faqs january 23, 2020 by hotjar team how well do you understand your prospects and customers? do you know who they are, what keeps them awake at night, and what brought them to your business in search of a solution? prev 1 2 3 next share on twitter facebook share on facebook linkedin share on linkedin email share by email hotjar product tour pricing founding members case studies product updates website heatmap tool contact us company blog careers privacy by design what is hotjar? support documentation data security site performance status cro guide heat map guide website feedback 101 usability testing cx guide legal legal overview terms of service privacy policy cookie information opt-out gdpr commitment copyright © 2014 - 2020 hotjar ltd. all rights reserved.