home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads the art-science of taking perspective loneliness in time: physicist freeman dyson on immigration and how severing our connection to the past shallows our present and hollows our history walt whitman on democracy and optimism as a mighty form of resistance labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times perspective to lift the blinders of our cultural moment. by maria popova it has been a difficult year — politically, personally. through it all, i have found solace in taking a more telescopic view — not merely on the short human timescale of my own life, looking back on having lived through a communist dictatorship and having seen poems composed and scientific advances made under such tyrannical circumstances, but on far vaster scales of space and time. a 2017 moon seen through my telescope at home under the brooklyn skies. when i was growing up in bulgaria, a great point of national pride — and we bulgarians don’t have too many — was that an old bulgarian folk song had sailed into space aboard the voyager spacecraft, the 1977 mission nasa launched with the scientific objective of photographing the planets of the outer solar system, which furnished the very first portrait of our cosmic neighborhood. human eyes had never before been laid on the arresting aquamarine of uranus, on neptune’s stunning deep-blue orb, on the splendid fury of jupiter’s great red spot — a storm more than threefold the size of our entire planet, raging for three hundred years, the very existence of which dwarfs every earthly trouble. jupiter’s great red spot as seen by the voyager. (photograph courtesy of nasa.) neptune as seen by the voyager. (photograph courtesy of nasa.) the voyager‘s farewell shot of uranus. (photograph courtesy of nasa.) but the voyager also had another, more romantic mission. aboard it was the golden record — a time-capsule of the human spirit encrypted in binary code on a twelve-inch gold-plated copper disc, containing greetings in the fifty-four most populist human languages and one from the humpback whales, 117 images of life on earth, and a representative selection of our planet’s sounds, from an erupting volcano to a kiss to bach — and that bulgarian folk song. the sunflower fields of bulgaria. bulgaria is an old country — fourteen centuries old, five of which were spent under ottoman yoke. this song, sung by generations of shepherdesses, encodes in its stunning vocal harmonies both the suffering and the hope with which people lived daily during those five centuries. you need not speak bulgarian in order to receive its message, its essence, its poetic truth beyond the factual details of history, in the very marrow of your being. carl sagan, who envisioned the golden record, had precisely that in mind — he saw the music selection as something that would say about us what no words or figures could ever say, for the stated objective of the golden record was to convey our essence as a civilization to some other civilization — one that surmounts the enormous improbabilities of finding this tiny spacecraft adrift amid the cosmic infinitude, of having the necessary technology to decode its message and the necessary consciousness to comprehend it. but the record’s unstated objective, which i see as the far more important one, was to mirror what is best of humanity back to itself in the middle of the cold war, at a time when we seemed to have forgotten who we are to each other and what it means to share this fragile, symphonic planet. when the voyager completed its exploratory mission and took the last photograph — of neptune — nasa commanded that the cameras be shut off to conserve energy. but carl sagan had the idea of turning the spacecraft around and taking one final photograph — of earth. objections were raised — from so great a distance and at so low a resolution, the resulting image would have absolutely no scientific value. but sagan saw the larger poetic worth — he took the request all the way up to nasa’s administrator and charmed his way into permission. the “pale blue dot” — the voyager‘s view of earth seen from the outer edge of the solar system. (photograph courtesy of nasa.) and so, on valentine’s day of 1990, just after bulgaria’s communist regime was finally defeated after nearly half a century of reign, the voyager took the now-iconic image of earth known as the “pale blue dot” — a grainy pixel, “a mote of dust suspended in a sunbeam,” as sagan so poetically put it when he immortalized the photograph in his beautiful “pale blue dot” monologue from cosmos — that great masterwork of perspective, a timeless reminder that “everyone you love, everyone you know, everyone you ever heard of, every human being who ever was… every hero and coward, every creator and destroyer of civilization, every king and peasant, every young couple in love, every mother and father, hopeful child, inventor and explorer, every teacher of morals, every corrupt politician” lived out their lives on this pale blue dot. and every political conflict, every war we’ve ever fought, we have waged over a fraction of this grainy pixel barely perceptible against the cosmic backdrop of endless lonesome space. in the cosmic blink of our present existence, as we stand on this increasingly fragmented pixel, it is worth keeping the voyager in mind as we find our capacity for perspective constricted by the stranglehold of our cultural moment. it is worth questioning what proportion of the news this year, what imperceptible fraction, was devoted to the 2017 nobel prize in physics, awarded for the landmark detection of gravitational waves — the single most significant astrophysical discovery since galileo. after centuries of knowing the universe only by sight, only by looking, we can now listen to it and hear echoes of events that took place billions of lightyears away, billions of years ago — events that made the stardust that made us. i don’t think it is possible to contribute to the present moment in any meaningful way while being wholly engulfed by it. it is only by stepping out of it, by taking a telescopic perspective, that we can then dip back in and do the work which our time asks of us. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published december 21, 2017 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2017/12/21/reflection/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under culturenasaoccasional essayspoliticssciencespace view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.