transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support in the news media contact: +1 212-358-0071 // sftmedia@studentsforafreetibet.org 1 2 3 4 next » china-sponsored exhibit about tibet is shuttered in new york february 27, 2020 in in the news tibetans in new york were celebrating saturday after it was announced an exhibit sponsored by the chinese consulate was being shut down in the queens borough of the city. two weeks ago, tibetan activists in new york noticed the queens public library... read more a tibetan youth in ngaba dies after setting himself on fire to protest against chinese rule november 28, 2019 in in the news dharamshala: a young tibetan nomad from the nearby nomadic township of meruma in ngaba (ch: aba) county in tibet’s traditional province of amdo died on tuesday after setting himself on fire to protest chinese rule of tibet and its hardline policies against... read more 30 years of tiananmen massacre observed in dharamshala june 1, 2019 in in the news dharamshala (himachal pradesh) [india], may 31 (ani): activists and students from china and tibet here on thursday gathered to commemorate the 30th anniversary of tiananmen massacre that marked a major turning point in the history of modern china. a panel discussion organised... read more tibetan advocacy group demands china release panchen lama ahead of his 30th birthday april 24, 2019 in in the news china should immediately free the panchen lama from custody and allow him to return to his monastery to assume his role as the second most well-known religious figure in tibet, a tibetan advocacy group said on the eve of his 30th birthday.... read more iupui closes confucius institute april 5, 2019 in in the news indianapolis — indiana university has closed the confucius institute of indianapolis on the iupui campus. in a statement to inside indiana business, iu said the decision "ensures ongoing operations of some programs within iu impacted by federal changes surrounding chinese language programs."... read more film exposing confucius institutes screens in portland march 10, 2019 in in the news portland, ore. — an hour-long panel discussion at portland state university followed the march 4 screening of in the name of confucius, a 2016 documentary about the chinese government-run and funded language programs that are named for the ancient teacher and philosopher. scores... read more 1 2 3 4 next » students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×