millionaire trader preferred broker blog penny stocks 101 (guide) how to find good penny stocks 6 crazy day trading myths versus reality earnings per share guide after hours trading tips pre-market trading: prep techniques for traders operating income guide 37 stock market terms you should know how to short a stock (guide) more blog posts … press about tim sykes because of my crazy story, i've been all over the media! steve harvey my feature on comedian and emmy award-winning host steve harvey’s talk show, where steve and i talk about my life, my purpose, why financial freedom should be everyone’s goal, and my advice to anyone trying to find financial success. plus, you’ll get to see a glimpse of my lifestyle (which steve amusingly deems “steve harvey’s version of mtv cribs”), and meet two of my many successful trading challenge students: michael (who has easily surpassed millionaire status) and ivan. larry king my sit-down with legendary television and radio host larry king, who — true to form — asks me the big questions, like why i chose penny stock trading, where i find my stocks, my penny stock trading strategy, and my future goals. (bonus: in this interview, you’ll also learn “why i’m on a mission to take bums off the street and put them in armani suits.”) fox business fox news television anchor, commentator and business journalist neil cavuto interviews me and one of my star trading challenge pupils, tim grittani. here, you’ll learn about my teachings, grittani’s experiences, how to spot scams and differentiate between hype and fact, and why you shouldn’t always wait for big gains before cashing out. fox and friends another great fox interview where i’m joined by the mighty (and now self-sufficient) tim grittani, who explains why he decided to join my trading challenge. we share our tips for trading success, scam alerts, and why you could be a strong candidate for the trading challenge, too. cheddar in this lively interview on cheddar’s live, personal finance show, “your cheddar,” i walk you through what shorting is and why some traders choose to do it. you’ll also learn when to short, the risks, and how to apply my contrarian philosophy to general investing. (my favorite part: sharing information about one of my favorite charities, pencils of promise, to which i donated $1 million to help build 20 schools.) plaxico burress television journalist, magazine columnist, and author maria bartiromo’s fox business feature on my collaboration with nfl star plaxico burress to help nfl players make smarter financial decisions. research shows that two years after retiring, over 75% of nfl players are bankrupt or in financial stress. here, plaxico explains the biggest financial mistakes many athletes make, and how i taught him “a methodical, effective, successful way to gain capital.” i share why it’s not all about trading/investing, and the most important rules we all —athletes and otherwise — need to learn to take control of our finances. timothy sykes on cnn journalist roland martin grills me on the topic of greed. in this cnn debate, i point out how greed can help foster a competitive edge and drive us to follow our passions and get ahead. ultimately, though, i explain that it’s not about the money — it’s about the invaluable lessons we learn in the process. tim on cnbc a blast from the past! in this cnbc “top young traders” feature, we’ll go back to my hedge fund days, where i explain my philosophy on shorting stocks, and my future trading and investing plans. you’ll also learn how i started trading in high school with a $12,000 bar mitzvah gift and turned it into a pre-tax profit of $1.65 million over the course of four years … and i haven’t slowed down since. tim on cnbc another cnbc interview from back in the day, where i share how to get ahead of trends, making friends with volatility, the perils of betting too big — and why you sometimes have to be wrong to really get it right. about timothy sykes i became a self-made millionaire by the age of 21, trading thousands of penny stocks - yep you read that right, penny stocks. you may have heard ... read more tim's important resources penny stocking 101: how to get started with penny stocks which penny stocks to buy how to invest in penny stocks home about affiliates chatroom contact tim ** results may not be typical and may vary from person to person. making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. there are inherent risks involved with investing in the stock market, including the loss of your investment. past performance in the market is not indicative of future results. any investment is at your own risk. see terms of service here.. millionaire media 80 s.w. 8th street suite 2000 miami, florida 33130 united states (203) 980-1361 this is for information purposes only as millionaire media llc nor timothy sykes is registered as a securities broker-dealer or an investment adviser. no information herein is intended as securities brokerage, investment, tax, accounting or legal advice, as an offer or solicitation of an offer to sell or buy, or as an endorsement, recommendation or sponsorship of any company, security or fund. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes cannot and does not assess, verify or guarantee the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information, the suitability or profitability of any particular investment, or the potential value of any investment or informational source. the reader bears responsibility for his/her own investment research and decisions, should seek the advice of a qualified securities professional before making any investment, and investigate and fully understand any and all risks before investing. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes in no way warrants the solvency, financial condition, or investment advisability of any of the securities mentioned in communications or websites. in addition, millionaire media llc and timothy sykes accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this information. this information is not intended to be used as the sole basis of any investment decision, nor should it be construed as advice designed to meet the investment needs of any particular investor. past performance is not necessarily indicative of future returns. ©2007-2020 timothysykes™ all rights reserved. millionaire publishing llc terms of service and user agreement privacy policy (statement) earnings disclosure member agreement code of conduct what people are saying we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.✖