services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing bluleadz inbound marketing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply close services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply customer experience services increase customer retention and drive referrals. once prospects become customers, more opportunities open up. inbound service focuses on delivering education and support on a consistent basis to continually delight customers and turn them into promoters of your business. be present for customers your customers are going to have questions about the products and services you have to offer. but where will they find help? how can they determine solutions that best fit their unique needs? with inbound service, we focus on developing a strong knowledge strategy to ensure you’re delivering the right answers in ways that best fit your customers’ preferences. this ensures a meaningful, supportive experience starting on day one. streamline conversations when customers can’t find what they need in your knowledge base, they will need to talk to you. even with the best knowledge strategies, your service team is bound to interact directly with your customers. inbound service tools like chatbots and live chat can provide contextual answers in an instant. but they won’t always fully solve every issue. if it comes to ticketing, you can streamline the service process through ticketing tools. our team helps you set up and refine these processes to ensure consistent engagement. collect feedback you need to understand if you’re delivering an awesome customer experience. and if you’re not, where are you getting it wrong? this is why a feedback system is crucial to your service team. the best way to step into your customers’ shoes is to simply ask. our team helps you make the most of tools for collecting feedback scores, so you can continually learn from your customers and improve the overall experience. this system of checking in with your customers on an ongoing basis helps you refine and enrich your knowledge resource content as well. leverage your current customers to drive revenue let’s delight your current customers together! want to chat? fill out the form below and schedule a meeting! not ready to chat yet. inbound service offerings automation setup we help your team develop automation strategies and service processes, including ticket routing, internal notifications, customer marketing email campaigns, and task creation. conversations dashboard your dashboard is your best asset for your service team. our experts help customize your conversations dashboard to fit your unique needs and simplify aspects like reporting, routing, and chat inboxes. knowledge and support content customers need instructional content so they can try to solve problems on their own. we help you develop a knowledge strategy and create educational content for your knowledge base. we also help create templates for customer support messaging. who's a good fit? if customer service, customer education, and customer satisfaction are your top priorities, inbound service is your best solution. our team of inbound service professionals can help you address any ongoing service concerns. check out the common issues you may be experiencing below. customer support timeliness your team is taking forever to resolve customer issues. you might be seeing a high complaint rate, or your customers often say it takes too long to get a first response. net promoter score you have a low nps, indicating a high number of detractors. your team is struggling with encouraging customers to recommend you. or perhaps referrals are rare, and they don’t generate much business. customer service content your service team lacks content for customer support. there is limited information in your knowledgebase, so your customers can’t find many solutions on their own. you don’t have any content for customer onboarding. management of tickets your service team feels overwhelmed by the existing backlog of tickets. your customer’s questions are going unanswered for a significant amount of time, and some are expressing anger. inbound service faqs how is inbound service different? today, thanks to the help of online and social media resources, customers have a lot of power. so they can sing your praises or loudly complain about your service team. inbound service applies the inbound methodology to customer service, helping you adopt a proactive strategy to attract, engage, and delight your customers to turn them into loyal advocates. what is the difference between customer support, customer service, and customer success? these terms fall under the service umbrella, but you need to think about each aspect individually as part of your overall inbound service strategy. support is how you react to customer needs. service is how your business guides the customer, a proactive approach to educating them. success focuses on how you expand value for your customers, which might involve cross-selling and upselling. customer success, customer service, and customer support are all vital to delivering a superior customer experience. how does inbound service benefit my business? from a big picture perspective, you’re shifting your team’s mindset to focus on delivering an awesome customer experience at every touchpoint. this helps increase customer retention as you focus more on proactive engagement, which can include creating a customer education program and seeking out customer feedback in meaningful ways. plus, the more you delight your current customers, the more likely you are to earn referrals and even create upsell and cross-sell opportunities to generate more revenue from your customers. what do i need to get started with inbound service? ideally, you’ll have a great service team, made up of reps, management, and leadership. you should also have a service platform in place. with hubspot service, you can hit the ground running fast, thanks to their automation features, conversations dashboard, and other tools to make it easy to set up a customer knowledge strategy. no matter your current solutions, our team of inbound service experts is ready to help take your customer service to the next level. do you only take month-to-month contracts, or do you accept project work? most of our clients enjoy our month-to-month contracts, but we also do projects! we've delighted many clients with one-off project work too, including website redesigns, sales training, and seo strategies. reach out to our inbound specialists to get a complimentary plan for your project! get a free service consultation our service pros will take a look at your current customer service process and make suggestions on what can be improved. services marketing design sales pricing company about us customer testimonials careers contact resources blog resources the inbound glossary are you lost? (866) 995-8720 3030 n. rocky point dr. w. suite 600 tampa, florida 33607 facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube messenger © 2020 bluleadz, all rights reserved. privacy policy.