clients solutions resources about the role of marketing in a crisis? be more human. read more human read 12 of the best marketing podcasts that will up your game in 2020 read how to make blogging easier with artificial intelligence read 8 of our favorite hubspot integrations read blog subscribe to email updates marketing strategy the role of marketing in a crisis? be more human. covid-19. we’ve been watching it from afar, as the tidal wave slowly moved closer. and suddenly, it was here. in the u.s., businesses and schools shu... artificial intelligence more human this post originally appeared in ohio today, the award-winning alumni magazine of ohio university. in february 2011, two of jeopardy!’s top contestant... marketing resources 12 of the best marketing podcasts that will up your game in 2020 walking your dog, working out, taking public transportation, folding laundry—what do these activities all have in common? you guessed it, they’re eac... artificial intelligence how to make blogging easier with artificial intelligence this post originally appeared on the marketing artificial intelligence institute's blog. the marketing ai institute was created and is powered by pr 2... hubspot marketing technology 8 of our favorite hubspot integrations hubspot is a marketer’s dream, empowering us to manage our contact databases, list segmentation, content, website, social, ads (the list goes on) in o... hubspot marketing technology full list: all of hubspot's new marketing hub enterprise features last week, hubspot shared a pretty powerful blog post about the state of today’s enterprise marketing software. the key takeaways? people hate enterpr... analytics data analysis how to build a marketing tracking and reporting process based on our own analytic data, the vast majority of you reading this are marketers, sales pros, service professionals, and business executives. marketing team book clubbin': amplify your brainstorm sessions with the six thinking hats editor’s note: the book clubbin’ series recaps business and marketing related books read by the pr 20/20 team each quarter as part of the agency book ... strategy audiences & accelerators: your go-to marketing databases ready to drive strategy and performance? i’m convinced there are two databases every marketer needs at-the-ready to do so effectively. audit your co... artificial intelligence piloting ai: get started with artificial intelligence [nov. 19 webinar] this post originally appeared on the marketing artificial intelligence institute's blog. the marketing ai institute was created and is powered by pr 2... solutions hubspot workshops speaking pricing resources blog books webinars about team careers contact follow us