services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing bluleadz inbound marketing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply close services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply sales enablement improve your process and shorten your sales cycle to drive revenue. your audience continues their journey with you through your sales team. and inbound sales is your best approach to deepening your company’s relationship with your audience. grow your pipeline in the earlier stage of inbound sales, you need to establish trust. this is one of your biggest obstacles because educated buyers are often skeptical of salespeople. but this isn’t outbound sales – you’re not cold calling or delivering elevator pitches right away. through inbound sales, we help you connect and converse with prospects in a human way and attract new leads using various methods, like prospecting and using meeting scheduling software. this delivers a prospect-centric sales experience, so they can make decisions on their timeline. keep your leads engaged inbound sales thrives when you can keep in touch and stay top of mind with leads. if you’re not consistently engaging with prospects, delivering valuable information throughout the prospect’s journey, you might be forgotten. we guide your sales team through all inbound sales best practices and help them use vital tools, like creating contextual email sequences, playbooks, and workflows. we also help you set up sales automation to ensure you deliver a positive experience in an efficient way. delight leads to close deals your customers ultimately want to come to the conclusion that you can deliver the right solutions for them that fit their unique needs. you don’t win them over with outdated, aggressive sales tactics. you close deals by showing prospects how your solution helps them achieve their goals. we empower your sales team with insights and advice through impactful coaching sessions. we also help them make the most of sales tools, like conversation routing, to ensure consistent experiences that make prospects and customers feel supported, educated, and valued. want to close more deals? you can close one right now… with us… let’s chat. fill out the form below and schedule a meeting! not ready to chat yet. inbound sales offerings sales enablement your team is only as good as the information you provide them. this is where sales enablement comes in. our team helps with hubspot installations, setups for tools like meeting scheduling and messaging, funnel analysis, reporting for each aspect of your sales process, and setting up your reporting dashboards. we also ensure your sales content is effective, creating sales documents, developing sequences and email templates, and training sales teams on how to use document tools in your crm. sales and marketing alignment smarketing is more than just a trendy buzzword; it’s a necessity in today’s digital world. we help break down silos that are preventing business growth by establishing alignment processes, like lead scoring, prospect fit matrixes, and slas. our team also supports your sales and marketing teams by assessing and recommending sales content, establishing lead handoff procedures, and creating and reporting on content feedback channels. comprehensive crm services your crm is the backbone of your sales department. our experts educate and support your team at every step of the way, from initial setup and custom integrations to ongoing crm administration, deal stage evaluations and criteria setting, and data cleansing. sales coaching the best way to get sales team members up to speed with the inbound methodology is through one-on-one coaching. we provide coaching services at all levels – reps, managers, and vps/directors – and assist at every stage of the rep lifecycle. this includes sourcing sales rep candidates, interviewing and hiring, onboarding, and conducting exit interviews. what our clients think romano muniz coo blue modo media best of the best! thank you bluleadz! working with the bluleadz team, specifically brittany, has made a tremendous impact on our marketing efforts, transforming our approach on how we engage, monetize, and scale our business. the team takes an authentic, genuine, and holistic approach towards evaluating the overall model of the business for marketing purposes, and provided new vantage points allowing up to grow! the team was patient in educating our team on the inbound sales and service processes, helping us get out of our own way to take the company to the next level. without a doubt, i'd recommend bluleadz and their team for any company looking for their services! kathryn barry marketing & client services manager sandler training of tampa bay so pleased! from the very first contact, our experience with blueleadz has been fantastic. will and brian took the time to ask questions and better understand exactly what we were looking to do with our hubspot crm. they helped us design a crm that works for what we do, not something generic that we have to "live with". finally, they spent time training us so that we have the knowledge to actually know how to use it. thank you, blueleadz! who's a good fit? you might be a good fit if you can identify with any of the following issues: crm support you aren’t currently utilizing a crm and need guidance on the best one to choose. or maybe you do use a crm, but it’s old, ineffective, and your contacts and data are unorganized. poor sales processes you have no set sales process and no visibility into the health of your sales funnel because of it. or, you have a basic sales process but it hasn’t been updated or revisited in a while. no sales content support you don’t have any content assets that your sales team can use to increase value and brand trust with prospects. or, you have some content assets your sales team uses but they haven’t proven effective and could use visual enhancement. good vs. bad prospect fits you haven’t identified or mapped out criteria that distinguishes your various lead stages leaving your sales team uncertain on which leads to prioritize. or, perhaps you have an idea of your good fit vs. bad fit opportunities, but haven’t built it out in a detailed manner that’s easy for your team to reference. inbound sales pricing sales enablement services start at $2k/mo and includes ongoing sales support and training. learn more → inbound sales faqs we don’t have a well defined sales process, can you help with that? yes, identifying all key stages of your sales process and mapping those to a sales content strategy is something our team has vast experience with. why is “inbound” sales important? the same way buyers have evolved to expect personalization from your marketing, they also expect the same valuable, informative journey once they convert into an sql (sales qualified lead) and enter your sales process. if that journey is inconsistent with what they’ve experienced thus far, you’ll continuously lose sales-ready leads. can inbound sales help us close more business? yes, modern sales strategies and sales teams that directly support inbound marketing initiatives always have a higher lead-to-customer percentage, shortened sales cycles and more efficiently align buyer & seller expectations. can your team call/work our leads for us? no, our inbound marketing efforts will notably increase the amount of sales qualified leads you obtain over time and we can build targeted sales strategies to set your sales team up for success in this area, but we cannot directly work your leads for you. do you work with our sales team as well as marketing? yes, in a multitude of ways. working with our customer’s sales teams is essential to maximize the roi of inbound marketing efforts. would you recommend adding inbound sales services to our inbound marketing? it depends on the current state of your sales department. if you have no sales process(es) in place, no existing sales content assets, no consistent crm operation, and you’re still cold-calling leads, then you should absolutely consider these services. if you have some of the above in place, it may just be a matter of needing some refinement. do you only take month-to-month contracts, or do you accept project work? most of our clients enjoy our month-to-month contracts, but we also do projects! we've delighted many clients with one-off project work too, including website redesigns, sales training, and seo strategies. reach out to our inbound specialists to get a complimentary plan for your project! get a free sales consultation our sales pros will take a look at your current sales process and make suggestions on what can be improved services marketing design sales pricing company about us customer testimonials careers contact resources blog resources the inbound glossary are you lost? (866) 995-8720 3030 n. rocky point dr. w. suite 600 tampa, florida 33607 facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube messenger © 2020 bluleadz, all rights reserved. privacy policy.