services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing bluleadz inbound marketing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply close services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply website design convert more visitors to fill your sales pipeline. but it isn’t going to work without upkeep and innovation, and many websites simply wind up collecting dust. ask yourself: when was the last time any substantial changes were made to your website to help improve the user experience and conversion path? if it’s been longer than 6 months, you’re already behind the curve. websites shouldn’t follow a “set-it-and-forget-it” philosophy. our inbound design approach utilizes data and analytics to delve deep into your buyer personas and make incremental improvements based on their needs. this helps you not only overhaul your site, but monitor and tweak to increase conversion rates and results over time. our process is simple just as rome wasn’t built in a day, a website can’t be overhauled in one either. but fret not–after an initial conversation and a bit of planning, the redesign process happens in four easily-digestible steps: wireframes this step provides a look into the layout and flow/hierarchy of each webpage. wireframes do not show design, but offer a bare-bones black-and-white blueprint of how the site will appear without concern for word choice and imagery. full-color proofs this is where you’re able to view colors and content (if it’s ready). now is the time to make tweaks and lock in the preferred design. these proofs will be the template used to match in the development phase. development now all the coding hoopla happens. using the static proofs as a baseline, our designers translate them into a functioning and dynamic website using html5, css and javascript. keep in mind the amount of time this takes can vary greatly depending on the platform, complexity, and desired animations. launch the final step is — you guessed it — taking the site live! depending on whether we’re updating an existing site or transferring you to hubspot’s content optimization system (cos), it involves more than just flipping a switch. there’s a period of 24-48 hours where your website may intermittently display your previous site as the domain settings resolve and update. that’s why we like to launch on a weekday in order to be on-hand for any challenges that may arise. see what we've got we understand your website is a window to the soul of your business and can make or break someone’s impression instantly. with over 100 redesigned websites under our belt, our priority lies in innovation meshed with inbound best practices for peak results. check out what we’ve done for our clients below: view more designs what our clients think rebecca arent sales and marketing associate big think edge consistent, reliable, fun if you choose bluleadz you can expect a strong, reliable partnership. working with jackie, summer and the rest of our bluleadz team has been a joy. they go the extra mile to provide valuable insight and availability. overall, they provide wonderful customer service. janine lyman marketing operations manager indexic the honeymoon phase is not a phase with bluleadz every encounter i've had with the bluleadz team has surpassed my expectations. the business impact they've had has been remarkable as well as continuously going the extra mile without being prompted to. they present themselves as true partners not "just another marketing agency". i fully trust that my team will continue to grow with bluleadz as we are able to make full use of the expertise they offer in sales and marketing. what makes them truly a member of our team is getting to know the people and really connecting. from sales to account manager... the quick-witted brian and my partner in crime as we aspire to do "tour industry research" crashing over waves on jet skis... will, the strategist who makes everyone look good... and no-nonsense-jenna who gets everything done before her deadline and is likely juggling 10 additional things unbeknownst to you and carries herself effortlessly! they do what they do well and everyone has a good time in the process. who's a good fit? these are the problems we solve for our clients on a daily basis. if you can relate to any of the ones listed below, then you definitely make a good fit with bz. outdated website your website needs updating because it’s not user-friendly and doesn’t look modern or professional enough to represent our brand. not mobile responsive your website is not optimized for mobile, or is not very responsive and has a very poor user experience overall that needs improvement. poor lead & customer conversions you have more of a brochure-style website and need it rebuilt with modern marketing and sales best practices to generate leads and customers. website autonomy you need to have your site redesigned but you want the ability to make easy updates or edits to it internally without having to rely on actions from a developer. web design pricing templated website redesigns start at $10k. traditional fully custom website redesigns start at $20k. get your custom quote → website design faqs how long does a website redesign take? our standard custom redesign project takes 8-12 weeks depending on variables. can you expedite a project to meet a time sensitive deadline? of course! we can expedite any project by adding more team resources. what are the benefits of having our website on hubspot? all in one marketing and sales package, with best in class user experience. to learn more, click here. what is your typical process for a website design project? we break it down into 5 stages. persona consideration / strategy, wireframes, full color design proofs, developing the designs, launch. how will our target market be factored into our new design? this is part of our persona consideration phase where we take into account all of your branding and target audience. if we provide you with designs, can you develop them? yes. we have a team of in house developers that can develop on multiple platforms. do you outsource any development or design work? no. all design and development work is done in-house. do i have to have my new website on hubspot? no. while we recommend hubspot, we can build your website on any platform. is seo included with your website redesign? it is not included as part of website redesign. but depending on your inbound retainer, we can provide seo services that fit your needs. is new website content included with your website redesign? no. we migrate your current content as is. however, we can support content creation for your new website if it's included in your inbound retainer. how much time would our company need to dedicate to this? we estimate between 10-15hrs for the duration of the project. this time includes, reviews of work, meetings etc. will our current site be affected while you work on the new one? no. all new websites are worked on in a staging area, which isn't live and has no impact on your current site. can you migrate our website? yes. we can migrate your website from your existing platform to look exactly the same on your new platform. can you work with other vendors on a project? yes. our team is very open to collaboration with existing vendors you might currently have. our sole focus is create something you will love. do you only take month-to-month contracts, or do you accept project work? most of our clients enjoy our month-to-month contracts, but we also do projects! we've delighted many clients with one-off project work too, including website redesigns, sales training, and seo strategies. reach out to our inbound specialists to get a complimentary plan for your project! website audit schedule a complimentary website consultation to learn what can be improved on your website like what you see? we can do the same for your website… let’s get started! fill out the form below and schedule a meeting! not ready to chat yet. services marketing design sales pricing company about us customer testimonials careers contact resources blog resources the inbound glossary are you lost? (866) 995-8720 3030 n. rocky point dr. w. suite 600 tampa, florida 33607 facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube messenger © 2020 bluleadz, all rights reserved. privacy policy.