call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact independent mortgage advisors in leeds freedom advice has been providing the leeds and yorkshire areas with mortgage advice for over 20 years. totally independent, our cemap qualified mortgage advisors are able to provide you with the most knowledgeable and informed mortgage advice available. covering all types and kinds of mortgages, we can source you with the best possible market rates. how can freedom advice help? having worked with people in the leeds area for over 20 years, we are able to provide a great range of mortgage advice services: first time buyer mortgages: if you’re looking to get your foot on the property ladder, we offer easy to understand mortgage advice as well as information on how to save. right to buy mortgages: for those searching for information to buy from their local authority, we offer unbiased advice to help you purchase your council home. self-employed mortgages: if you’re self employed and are unsure on what steps to take so that you can purchase a property, we have a track record of helping directors and self-employed professionals get the best possible self-employed mortgage. high net worth mortgages: an individual with a high net worth can often find it difficult for high street lenders to understand their often complex financial situation. freedom advice can help you provide financial clarity, as well as source the right kind of lender for your specific needs. second home mortgages: we’ve helped countless leeds residents in their search for a second home abroad and can help you with all the necessary planning and researching required for a second home mortgage. buy to let mortgages: purchasing a property with the intention of letting it can be a great investment for many. we can help you understand much you could make on a buy to let property, as well as which lender could provide you with the best deal. bridging finance: renovating a property is often a stressful and complex time. short-term bridging loans can help cover you during your project, as well as secure the best rates on the market. remortgaging: if your current fixed deal has ended, your house has increased in value or you want to fund a new extension we can help. if you want to know more about what kind of mortgage you need, or how freedom advice can help you, check out our contact page. why choose us for mortgage advice? offering easy to understand advice, built on decades of experience, our mortgage advisors take a great deal of pride in offering the best mortgage advice in leeds. ensuring a great degree of efficiency and professionalism, we ensure that your mortgage is arranged hassle-free and as swiftly as possible; no matter what kind of mortgage you are searching for. with a reputation built on years of trustworthy advice, freedom advice is one of the go-to mortgage brokers in the west yorkshire area. the guidance and/or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore targeted at consumers based in the uk. call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.