home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog color me rad 2013 september 17, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment this past weekend i ran in the color me rad 5k in indianapolis. we signed up to run at 9:40am which was nice as it wasn't too early. we checked in and got our free tshirt and sunglasses. i have to say...color me rad officially has the highest quality shirts. i love my shirt from 2012 and this one was just as cute!! the material they use isn't a typical cotton..it's high … [read more...] goape indianpolis treetop & zipline adventure review may 27, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment this memorial day weekend was so much fun! i spent saturday up in the trees. i got to try out the new treetop & zip lining adventure by goape indianapolis. what is goape? if you’re ready for a totally unique outdoor experience, its time to go ape! way more than just zip lines, go ape is a 2-3-hour journey through the forest canopy as you take on suspended … [read more...] color me rad 5k recap september 10, 2012 by erin weiss 8 comments this past weekend i was able to participate in indianapolis' color me rad 5k! i had never done this race before but it was very similar to the color run 5k that i did a few weekends ago. it was fun!!!!! my boyfriend ran with me this time. this was our third race together. while we were running, we realized that the only other races he has done are two warrior dash's. when i … [read more...] shellacing at home june 18, 2012 by erin weiss 5 comments how the heck is it monday already? i feel like i didn't even have a weekend. luckily this week is a short work week for me because i decided to take off thursday and friday. i need a break from work because it's been chaotic! this past weekend, i got to go to one of my favorite pizza places in indianapolis for a fabulous cheat meal :) it's called bazbeaux and it's in our … [read more...] my experiences with flipping houses may 18, 2012 by erin weiss 6 comments happy friday!!!! the weekend is finally here and i don't have anything planned as of yet. these kind of weekends have become my favorite lately :) i set a goal for myself to go to the gym before work this morning. i set my alarm for 5am, had my stuff all packed up and even slept in my gym clothes last night. my alarm went off at 5am and i walked to the bathroom to brush … [read more...] race for the cure indianapolis 2012 recap april 23, 2012 by erin weiss 2 comments i decided last minute to run in the race for the cure in indianapolis this past weekend. i'm so glad i made this last minute decision. i've done this race one other time in the past and it's so unbelievably amazing to see how many people come out for this great cause. there were around 30,000 people participating this year!!! i saw so many breast cancer survivors who were … [read more...] it wasn’t sweat, it was liquid awesome march 9, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments happy friday!!! this was such a weird week because i took monday off because of my stitches in my hand and then i was in a training class tues-thursday. this is my first day of being back to normal. this weekend in indianapolis, we have the big 10 basketball tournament. you can bet that my boyfriend has "boys weekend". i'm going to find my own fun this weekend...without … [read more...] super bowl xlvi february 6, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment congrats to the giants for a big super bowl win! i was cheering for the giants because i'm not a fan of the patriots and i wanted eli manning to win in his brother's stadium here in indianapolis! the city was amaaaazing this weekend for the game. i can't even explain how great the city looked and how it seemed like everyone who i talked to who was visiting was having a great … [read more...] bombshell, savage or p90x? february 3, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments yesterday i had an intense leg & ab workout! my legs were seriously shaking and felt like jello when i left the gym. i love it! i felt the burn baby! i did day 4 of lee labrada's lean body program. here's what i did... squats: 2 sets of 10-12 reps, 1 set to failure 60-90 sec rest dumbbell lunges: 2 sets of 10-12 reps, 1 set to failure 60-90 sec rest leg … [read more...] giveaway! february 2, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments i have a fun giveaway to offer you today :) yay! but you'll have to wait for it until the end of the post. sorrrrrry!!! so yesterday the weather was still really nice after work, so i decided to take my "active rest/cardio day" outisde instead of on the deadmill. don't laugh at my speed..i know i'm a turtle. i did all intervals which is much different to do outside … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in