skip to content social media who am i? menu indietail the stray sheep the gaming journal indiecator dr. pepper-loving indie-fanatic reviews games and talks about other stuff the indiecator hello there! welcome to my blog. my name’s dan and i’m a soon-to-be-teacher from germany who enjoys video games and writing and thought he’d combine that into this small side-project, called indiecator. i mainly post review (indietail) on here but also other types of content, like stuff about my life outside of the bloggosphere (the stray sheep) and my adventures in non-indie-games (the gaming journals). feel free to hang out over here and to take your time while exploring this project of mine. if you scroll down, you’ll also find my social media sides, so follow those or join the discord to get updates on my latest blog posts and other stuff. 🙂 cheers! winner of blaugust 2019’s newbie award winner of blaugust 2019’s rainbow award for posting 31/31 times! social media! steam twitter facebook tumblr e-mail twitch tss#45 – the coronapocolypse? today’s stray sheep is about my current covid-19-situation. how are things going for me? how am i holding up over here? what’s the situation in germany? note: today’s post is accompanied by screenshots from mhw and uhm… yes, i’m behind on posts. i’m working on it. if you know the game, you may notice that […] by magiwastaken mar 21, 2020 tss#44 – heros in these times today’s stray sheep is different… in these quite different times. there are people out there that don’t realise how great and important it is that they are doing what they are doing. and i’d like to thank them and praise them or rather sing hymns about them (semi-ironically)… but i shouldn’t sing as i really […] by magiwastaken mar 20, 2020 the monhunlog #2 – three more elders to-go, please it’s been a while since i posted about the adventures in the new world but uh, i don’t have a reason why i didn’t post sooner. mostly procrastination, i guess. either way, last time we were hunting down the vicious nergigante, as well as some other threats to the eco-system. however, the troubles didn’t end […] by magiwastaken mar 12, 2020 like this: like loading... all posts mar 2020 (4) feb 2020 (9) jan 2020 (5) dec 2019 (3) nov 2019 (8) oct 2019 (10) sep 2019 (14) aug 2019 (31) jul 2019 (5) awesome people! gun smoke & ghouls time to loot games with coffee eve online pictures narratess vidchord gamer girl confessions the gaming diaries étoile des avis jeff brutlag rng blog - contains moderate peril www.containsmoderateperil.com frostilyte writes tales of the aggronaut the well-red mage unidentified signal source monsterlady's diary the filthy casual backlog crusader about me heya! nice to meet you! i’m dan, a 20yo student from germany and freetime-blogger. contact me via: dan.indiecator@gmail.com if you’re more casual about it, dm me: @that_indiecator! blog at wordpress.com. gun smoke & ghouls the weird & macabre world of artist/illustrator/author kevin hurtack time to loot finding fun in loot and adventure games with coffee the blog for the mature, distinguished gamer eve online pictures internet spaceships in their natural environment narratess because stories are everywhere vidchord gamer girl confessions where games and geekdom unite. the gaming diaries the adventures of a life in games and my real geeky life when it takes over. étoile des avis just the inane ramblings of someone that cares a little bit too much about video games of all shapes and sizes. jeff brutlag full-time storyteller, lifetime geek rng reviews, narrative, game-design blog - contains moderate peril dr. pepper-loving indie-fanatic reviews games and talks about other stuff www.containsmoderateperil.com frostilyte writes and also doodles tales of the aggronaut life and times of belghast: blogger, podcaster, tank, mmo gamer, husband, cat and ferret tender, etc the well-red mage a paradigm shift for games writing unidentified signal source a blog about life, gaming, and everything. monsterlady's diary here to unleash my imagination the filthy casual sometimes salty. sometimes sweet. always sweary backlog crusader comprehensive player reviews, video game backlog slaying, and thoughts on video game culture. create your website at wordpress.comget started post to cancel privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy %d bloggers like this: