kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! indoor voices, a quarantine group blog just like the old days posted by aaron cohen mar 27, 2020 a few weeks ago, writer kyle chayka tweeted “i predict a great blogging renaissance,” to which also writer kevin nguyen responded, “i kinda wanna do a weird free-for-all quarantine blog.” then they added other writer bijan stephen and started indoor voices, a group blog which has now grown to about 80 members, all of whom miss what the internet used to be like and happen to be home quite a bit at the moment. (to cement old school credentials, indoor voices is hosted on ancient blogging platform blogspot, the place i got my blogging start in 2004. (out of an abundance of shame, i absolutely will not be linking to this first blog.)) from the indoor voices about page: blogging is not a substitute for direct action. direct action in this case involves staying home. blogging is one thing to do while staying at home. please wash your hands. it’s hard to believe, but there was a time where the internet was just full of casual websites posting random stuff. and you’d go to them maybe even multiple times a day to see if they had posted any new stories. it was something we all did when we were bored at our desks, at our jobs. now there are no more desks. but there are still blogs. there’s no theme, except quarantine. there’s no schedule, except people post every day whenever they want. as you might expect from a group of 80 people, post subjects vary. there are beauty tips, missives to deadwood and steven universe, strategies to get through your pile of new yorkers, and a regularly featured what should you do tonight? i myself have posted about working from home with kids (it’s…fine), what help small businesses need right now, and quarantine, an anthem sung to the tune of dolly parton’s, jolene. (this level of blogging productivity hasn’t been seen by me since 2014.) in a brief interview, cofounder kevin nguyen had this to say about indoor voices: we started indoor voices because we were nostalgic for classic days of blogging, and partly as an inside joke. then we realized that the blogs we missed felt like an inside joke that a small community was in on. so far, we’ve been really thrilled with the creative, chaotic energy that people have been putting forward. it’s writing for writing’s sake, and we’ve enjoyed seeing just how diverse and funny and strange that’s been. probably helps that we’re all slowly going stir crazy. note also, kevin’s first novel, new waves, is finally out. it’s my most anticipated read of the year, but don’t take my word for it. almost every publication that writes about books regularly listed it as anticipated as well. more about... bjian stephen blogging covid-19 kevin nguyen kyle chayak ads via carbon kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives