home pricing demo learn more infercabulary content our team press professional resources blog contact sales & inquiries user support login vocabulary made visual introducing infercabulary, a web-based, visual vocabulary and reasoning program using the semantic reasoning method. view our plans vocabulary made visual introducing infercabulary, a web-based, visual vocabulary and reasoning program using the semantic reasoning method. view our plans vocabulary made visual introducing infercabulary, a web-based, visual vocabulary and reasoning program using the semantic reasoning method. view our plans semantic reasoning – a new approach to vocabulary instruction are you frustrated with your vocabulary tools that ask students to memorize complex language-definitions that they don’t always understand? infercabulary has students actively infer the meaning of words based on seeing multiple images illustrating the word used in different contexts. check out our instant demo semantic reasoning – a new approach to vocabulary instruction are you frustrated with your vocabulary tools that ask students to memorize complex language-definitions that they don’t always understand? infercabulary has students actively infer the meaning of words based on seeing multiple images illustrating the word used in different contexts. check out our instant demo they really respect her; she must be in charge. wow, that house is the nicest on the block. that evergreen tree sure is noticeable. you can't help noticing her eyes. students study image sets, each illustrating different contexts of a single word. then they select the corresponding word. they really respect her; she must be in charge. wow, that house is the nicest on the block. that evergreen tree sure is noticeable. you can't help noticing her eyes. students study image sets, each illustrating different contexts of a single word. then they select the corresponding word. see how it works see how it works what people are saying my middle school students and co-workers love infercabulary. the images and captions elicit higher level thinking about words, and they are motivated by that game design of the activities. i love that i can customize word lists, assign independent work or play as a group, and confidently monitor my students’ progress. infercabulary provides a powerful and motivating way to learn new words. i have been amazed how well my students are mastering their starter words and how durable their memories of those terms are when they come up later. --michael young, wilson dyslexia therapist, rti specialist & middle school teacher at groves academy, st. louis park, mn my 6th grade boys would rush into class and independently complete lessons without teacher prompting. i could see them building confidence in their vocabulary, which transferred into their overall self-esteem with school. not only did they love seeing their number of words learned increase, but were actually able to understand the meaning of the words in other contexts. i loved using infercabulary for direct instruction with my kids. it not only built their vocabulary and made them see connections and understand words in a deeper, more meaningful way, but also helped with their test taking strategies. with the visual and word description, they began to be able to find the commonalities among the choices and associate it with the word. --becky hall, m. ed, a/aogpe, wilson-1, intervention specialist, shanahan middle school, columbus, oh as a psychologist specializing in learning and brain development, i am in constant search of programs that support reasoning in an engaging manner. infercabulary is a find. the multimodal approach with built in rewards provides a platform for strengthening comprehension and critical thinking. while learners improve their vocabulary, it is the underpinning of developing reasoning skills that propels learners’ skills for a lifetime. --cindy ward sandler, ph.d., licensed psychologist infercabulary is an excellent digital tool for building deep vocabulary skills through multisensory cues and the use of a new approach, semantic reasoning. it helps plug a huge hole for us regarding online tools that directly help students develop a key, often overlooked reading and language ability. beth lawrence and deena seifert have done an incredible job creating this powerful app. best i’ve seen in a long time. --dr. michael hart, educational consultant & international literacy expert, nashville, tn using infercabulary literally saved me hours. all of the planning, instruction, review and enrichment is rolled into this method. the pictures would be a pleasure to search for... but it would take me forever! my students and i really have benefitted and enjoyed this vocabulary study technique. --kelly, 5th grade teacher from a virginia public school as an slp with a heavy and diverse caseload, infercabulary is my go-to program, as i can use it to address a number of goals simultaneously. my students’ pace of acquisition of new vocabulary items has increased dramatically because of the way in which the information is presented. it is incredibly motivating for students and highlights connections between words in a way that no other program does. when i offer my students a choice of infercabulary versus a range of semantic board games, they always choose infercabulary! --lindy rosen nelson, phd, speech language pathologist from pikesville, md i don’t learn when my teachers give me a list because i don’t know what the dictionary is saying, and i need pictures. this (infercabulary) really helps me, and i bet it would help a lot of kids. it’s also really fun! -- 5th grade student, baltimore, md my two dyslexic daughters ask to play infercabulary first thing every morning. they are finally learning the meanings of words without having to trip over and memorize definitions, and they are loving it! --mother from ohio infercabulary has forever changed how i approach vocabulary instruction. my students love it. they remember word meanings, and recall the words when they are reading literature. i’ve never seen such integration of vocabulary learning with any of my previous approaches. --english language arts teacher from virginia we found infercabulary a wonderful tool for the students who piloted it. we will be expanding this year after piloting last year. teachers like it because it is thorough and can align with literature; one teacher stated “infercabulary is outstanding.” students enjoy it because it is entertaining and makes for engaging homework assignments. --beth macmullen, director of educational technology & curriculum innovation, jemicy lower & middle school, owings mills, md infercabulary joins google for education as a build partner infercabulary has joined google for education as a technology partner! infercabulary participates in mashpee ed tedx ceo and co-founder beth lawrence hosted a tedx talk sharing how semantic reasoning is changing the landscape of literacy and vocabulary instruction. infercabulary, educational tool, makes it easier for students to learn wbal tv baltimore, august 28, 2019 also featured on msn lifestyle and 4029 tv news view all press get started want to be on the cutting edge of vocabulary instruction? get infercabulary terms & conditions privacy policy faqs support © 2020 infercabulary all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. we'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. cookie settingsaccept privacy & cookies policy close privacy overview this website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. we also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. these cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. you also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. but opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. necessary always enabled necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. this category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. these cookies do not store any personal information. non-necessary non-necessary any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. it is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. divya bhakta, m.s., ccc-slp divya bhakta is a certified and licensed speech-language pathologist. she received her bachelor of science degree in communication sciences and disorders and master of science degree in speech-language pathology from long island university in 2010. she’s worked in schools, skilled nursing facilities, and now private practice, evaluating and treating children and adults with a wide variety of communication and swallowing disorders. her special interests include pediatric language disorders. close betsy gerding, m.a., ccc-slp betsy gerding is a nationally board certified speech-language pathologist in the baltimore. she graduated with her masters degree from towson university and has worked in a number of private schools in the baltimore-washington area. she specializes in working with students who have language-based learning differences, and is particularly interested in how language impacts reading, writing, and executive functioning skills. in addition, betsy’s experience includes working with preschool-age children through high school students with needs related to articulation and motor speech, social pragmatics, language of math, and non-verbal learning disability. close ashley clayman, m.s., ccc-slp ashley clayman is a nationally board certified speech-language pathologist in the columbia, md area. she graduated with her masters degree with a deafness specialty from nazareth college of rochester. she specializes in aural habilitation for cochlear implant and hearing aid users, articulation disorders, phonological disorders, and expressive/receptive language disorders. she has prior experience working in auditory only, cued speech, and total communication programs. in addition, she has experience working with a variety of articulation disorders and language disorders as a school-based speech pathologist. close beth lawrence, m.a., ccc-slp beth lawrence is ceo and co-founder of communication apptitude inc. a certified speech language pathologist, beth has worked in this field for more than 24 years. she specializes in pediatric speech language therapy. beth has led workshops in vocabulary instruction, written language, technology and language strategies. deena seifert and beth are co-creators of infercabulary, wordquations and the test of semantic reasoning. close deena seifert, m.s., ccc-slp deena seifert is clinical director, coo, and co-founder of communication apptitude inc. and a certified speech language pathologist for more than 25 years. she specializes in pediatric speech language therapy since 1991. deena has led workshops in vocabulary instruction, written language, technology and language strategies. beth lawrence and deena seifert are the creators of infercabulary, wordquations, and the test of semantic reasoning. close