skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » reviews » infinite theme review: a powerful multi-purpose wordpress theme infinite theme review: a powerful multi-purpose wordpress theme april 11, 2017 joe fylan reviews 2 comments if you’re looking for a highly flexible wordpress theme, then the newly released infinite could be perfect for you. in this infinite theme review, we’ll be putting this multi-purpose wordpress template under the microscope to help you decide if it has everything you’ll need to build the best website for your project. multi-purpose themes are some of the most popular wordpress themes available. with so many different options to choose from, how do you know which is the right option for your project? fear not. by the end of this infinite theme review, you’ll know whether this theme is for you, or if your search for the best wordpress theme continues. who should choose the infinite theme? as this is a multi-purpose wordpress theme, infinite aims to be an all-in-one website solution for everyone. however, while this theme does include a page builder tool and wealth of other customization options, the best way to determine who should choose this theme is to check out the pre-built website demos. if you can find a website demo that matches your project, or one you think can be easily tweaked to help you build the website you need, then infinite could be for you. we’ll be covering the quality of the demos next in this infinite review, so be sure to read on if you’re trying to find the best wordpress theme available today. infinite wordpress theme features the main highlight of the infinite theme is its huge number of features. but are these features useful or are they just used to help sell the theme? let’s find out in the next section of our infinite theme review. high-quality website demos like the best multi-purpose wordpress themes, the core feature of infinite is its selection of pre-built website demos. these demos can be imported into your wordpress website in just a few clicks. in no time at all, you’ll have a professional-looking design to add your own content to. the infinite demos are divided up into four main categories, each with their own set of demos. therefore, if you’re creating a website that falls into one of the following categories, infinite could be a good choice for your project: corporate creative niche retail and services woocommerce those categories are broad. so let’s take a closer look at the website demos that make up the infinite theme to see what they really have to offer. infinite corporate website demos including the main infinite theme demo – which is a multi-purpose option that would be good for almost any type of website – there are six different demos to choose from in the corporate category. one option is the yellow black demo. well suited to innovative businesses and service providers, this demo is ideal for those that need a very modern website. then there’s the big corp one page website corporate demo. as you can see, this is a stylish demo. big corp makes great use of the fixed sidebar navigation layout. as your visitors click on the menu items, an eye-catching scrolling technique is used to move the desired content into view. infinite creative website demos with six website demos in the creative category to choose from, infinite is a great choice for anyone who wants to build a creative website – and let’s be honest, who doesn’t want a creative website? in agency is one of those creative demos. it’s a good choice for building a stylish online portfolio with wordpress. if you need to display your creative work online and in style this could be a good choice. the navigation system of the in agency demo is particularly impressive. standing out from the competition should be much easier thanks to this novel approach to website menus. if you’re creating a photography website then the aptly named aperture demo is well worth checking out. whether you simply want to share your photos online or promote your photography services to a wider audience, the aperture theme gives you plenty of options. as well as the full screen slider, the agency demo features a homepage that’s packed with features. as your visitors scroll down the page, you have the option of displaying a range of useful modules. with options including feature lists, collapsible tabs, portfolio excerpts, pricing tables, and google maps, you’ll easily be able to build the homepage you need with infinite and this creative agency demo. infinite niche retail demos the demos in the niche retail category cover fitness, mechanical, gardening, medical, and architecture businesses. however, they’re all flexible options that can easily be tweaked to suit a wide range of projects. at first glance, the infinite medical demo is a pretty standard option. however, as you scroll down the default homepage layout, you and your visitors should be impressed by all the widgets and features the infinite developers have managed to cram into this website. of course, the homepage layout is entirely flexible. you can easily switch on and off the various widgets. alternatively, you can rearrange them to better meet your needs. the sports and fitness demo has a great look that’s perfect for this type of website. whether you want to create a website for your gym, promote your personal training services, or simply blog about your favorite sport, this demo is a good option. woocommerce online shop demos there’s only one purpose-built ecommerce demo available so far from infinite. however, it has a neutral design that makes it a good choice for selling a range of different products. all the store page templates are there. all the store page templates are there. this includes product listings, checkout and shopping cart templates, and more. if you want to build an online store with wordpress and the woocommerce plugin, infinite can help you. it’s worth noting that any of the other demos can be used to list products for sale, thanks to the overall support for the woocommerce store builder plugins. the infinite website demos do have a very high-quality design and appearance. they’re also packed with useful features. however, these pre-built demos might not be right for every project. if this is the case and there isn’t a demo that matches your requirements, keep reading this infinite theme review to find out how they can easily be tweaked or completely modified to help you build the wordpress website you need. intuitive demo content importer having access to such high-quality demos is great. however, if the process for importing them into your wordpress isn’t straightforward, you’re going to end up frustrated. it’s often the case that a wordpress theme will offer a disappointing user experience when it comes to importing demo content – at least when the desired end result is an accurate replica of the demo site used to promote the theme. thankfully, the infinite theme features one of the best demo content importer tools i’ve seen. as well as giving you an easy way to select which demo website to import, you’ll also find quick links to all the demos. this gives you a quick and easy way to view the demos in action before making a final decision. then there’s the option of installing either the light or the full version of the demo. currently this is only an option for the main demo. however, it does give you the ability to only import some of the demo content. this is opposed to importing the 100s of dummy pages and images they contain. you can also choose which aspects of the demo to import, including the menus, image, theme options, sidebar and footer configurations, and more. i’m pleased to report that the demo content importer worked really well. in just one or two clicks, my new wordpress website was set up and ready for my own content. library of content layouts and page templates as well as the demo homepages, infinite comes with a large amount of layouts and templates for the inner pages of your site. this includes a selection of about page templates, multiple services page templates, a number of contact page templates, and a whole lot more. the infinite theme demos also include an impressive range of blog post layouts, including many different content and sidebar arrangements, as well as a number of blog post lists and widget layouts. if you want to create an online portfolio with wordpress, infinite has lots to offer. as well as the portfolio focused demos, choosing any of the other demos will still give you the ability to add an online portfolio to your website. in fact, there are many different portfolio templates and modes to choose from. therefore, no matter what type of website you are building or what kind of work you want to share online, infinite and its portfolio options are a great tool for this type of product. publishing your images online with infinite is easy too. thanks to the interesting selection of gallery layouts, you’ll have no trouble choosing a design that’s right for your website and its content. the horizontal scrolling gallery layout is a particular highlight from this theme. however, there are many more gallery modes and layouts to choose from so be sure to check them out. drag-and-drop content builder some multi-purpose wordpress themes include the visual composer plugin in order to add a page builder tool to their feature list. infinite includes a bespoke page builder plugin that was created by the theme developers. the infinite builder has an interesting approach to page design. although the work takes place in the admin area of your wordpress website, a live preview mode is always on hand to give you a good idea of how your work will look when it’s published – something that isn’t always possible with other tools of this type. thanks to the use of ajax, saving your progress takes place in an instant, without the need for any page reloading — very useful if you are worried about losing your work! you can easily switch between the different views of the page builder. this gives you the option of viewing your work in block mode, preview, or live mode. each option has its pros and cons. they’re all useful features of this bespoke page builder tool. another really interesting feature of the page builder tool that’s included with the infinite theme is its prebuilt content. this includes a selection of high-quality prebuilt pages and prebuilt blocks. as the name suggests, the prebuilt pages can be used to quickly add a range of pages to your wordpress website — all of which can be easily customized through the page builder interface. as well as the prebuilt pages, the prebuilt blocks are on hand to help you create your own custom pages. at the time of writing this infinite theme review, there were 26 prebuilt blocks to make use of, giving you a quick and easy way to mix and match blocks to create your own pages. examples of these blocks include multi-column layouts for presenting your services, featured boxes to highlight important information, interactive maps and contact details, and much more. being able to instantly add these blocks to your page designs and then personalize them can really speed up your workflow. elements can be used alongside the prebuilt pages and blocks to add more useful content to your pages. these elements can be easily searched and filtered to help you find what you are looking for. advanced theme options admin panel the page builder tool is ideal for creating custom designs for your website’s content. however, when it comes to controlling the overall appearance and configuration of your site, these settings can be found in the theme’s admin control panel. infinite really does give you full control over how your website looks and functions, all through an intuitive theme options panel. you can also use the wordpress customizer tool to personalize many aspects of your website as well. other features of the infinite multi-purpose wordpress theme this theme really offers too much to cover here in our infinite theme review. as well as all of the above highlights, the infinite wordpress theme also offers: 3 premium slideshow builder plugins fast loading times and impressive page speed scores full support for the wpml plugin to help you create a multilingual wordpress website coming soon option to put your site into maintenance mode ability to create unlimited sidebars and choose when and where they are displayed built in mega menu feature to enhance your site’s navigation areas google fonts integration providing you with over 700 fonts to choose from testimonial publishing tools call to action button elements pricing table builder multiple header layouts infinite wordpress theme pricing options infinite can be purchased from the themeforest marketplace for $59. this price includes lifetime access to theme updates and six months of support from the developers. you can extend this period to 12 months by paying an extra $17.70. considering this theme includes the premium layerslider wp, slider revolution, masterslider, and ilightbox plugins at no extra cost, it’s a great value option that could save you $72 in plugin costs. infinite theme review final thoughts infinite is a really impressive theme. all of the demos look great and are of a very high standard. the demo import process works really well and you should have no trouble setting up your website. thanks to the huge selection of page templates and layouts, you can mix and match the different options to create your own custom design. the powerful page builder tool is on hand to help you carry out any more extensive customization work. if you like the look of the demos, then infinite has the features and functionality to back them up and help you build a professional wordpress website. find out more about infinite today did this infinite theme review answer all your questions? what do you think of this theme? please share your thoughts in the comments below. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. corporatemultipurposewoocommerce themeswordpress theme review share this share tweet pin it share joe fylan joe uses wordpress to create websites of all types and loves sharing his experiences of using this software with other users. if you need a steady stream of great content for your website, or you want the latest wordpress news and review then check out his writing services and wordpress blog. related posts consulting business and finance wordpress theme review the consulting wordpress theme has been designed to help you create a professional business website… edupro theme review: a multi-purpose wordpress education theme edupro is a brand new wordpress theme for creating educational websites. thanks to the 10… brando wordpress theme review: a new multi-purpose theme brando is a newly released multi-purpose wordpress theme that wants to help you build the… extra wordpress theme review: build the website you want with ease if you’re in the process of creating a blog or a news and reviews style… ws form review – powerful form builder plugin for wordpress ws form is a plugin that’s been created to help you build better wordpress forms.… masterstudy theme review: promote your courses and educational services online masterstudy is a premium wordpress theme that has been created especially for anyone who needs… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: the core theme review: 20 website demos and a wealth of features next post: ark theme review: best rated multi-purpose wordpress theme we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×