thoughts on the middle east, history and religion header right donate search informed comment facebook twitter google+ email rss featured us politics middle east environment us foreign policy energy economy politics about archives submissions © 2020 informed comment skip to content skip to primary sidebar main content democratic socialism the novel coronavirus has a well-known left-wing bias juan cole ann arbor (informed comment) – the character played by comedian stephen colbert, back when he was parodying fox “news” anchors, lamented that “reality has a […] epidemics coronavirus proves it: we need medicare for all otherwords climate crisis us nat’l security state tilted at war on terror windmills when real threats — climate and pandemic — were at home andrew j. bacevich more stories donald trump in a plague year, trump ratchets up tensions with iran and iraq san francisco (foreign correspondent) – while the world focuses on the coronavirus pandemic, tensions between the us and iran are heating up. the two countries […] reese erlich afghanistan trump boasted he “obliterated” isis in afghanistan; then isis massacred a shiite wedding party by brian glyn williams and javed rezayee | – williams, boston/bamiyan. on november 13th yet another suicide bombing shredded the lives of people across the […] brian glyn williams corruption the contango tango: secstate pompeo pressures saudis to raise gasoline prices, harming us consumers ann arbor (informed comment) – secretary of state mike pompeo had a phone call with saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman on tuesday. so reports […] juan cole donald trump trump trying to bolster his far right agenda with the pandemic, but will it expose his utter incompetence? the politics of the coronavirus john feffer israel/ palestine palestinians in gaza face coronavirus alone after 14-year israeli lockdown by ahmet alioglu | – humans never thinks of the blessings they have unless they’re lost or about to vanish. freedom to move is an […] middle east monitor corruption there’s a name for trump playing down the threat and failing to take action against the virus: institutional betrayal by anne p. deprince and joan m. cook | – u.s. intel agencies issued dire, classified warnings to president trump in january and february about […] the conversation featured 5 years into saudi war on yemen, 14 mn. in acute need, 1/2 of hospitals closed, and coronavirus looms ann arbor (informed comment) – five years ago, saudi arabia launched its ruinous war on yemen. in 2020, the oil-rich kingdom has nothing to show […] juan cole authoritarianism viral coups: authoritarians like trump and israel’s netanyahu see coronavirus as opportunity for power grab oakland, ca. (special to informed comment) – the united states and israel may be considered “liberal democracies,” though the us is technically a “republic;” and […] h. scott prosterman banking what’s the point of bailing out hurting ceos if they just use funds to buy back stock & feather their nests? southwest harbor, maine (special to informed comment) – occasionally president trump likes to play defender of the common man. the frequent attacks on nafta and […] john buell page 1 page 2 page 3 … page 2213 next page » primary sidebar latest donald trump trump, putting profit motive and reelection over public health, undermining coronavirus social distancing strategy juan cole israel/ palestine checkpoints of death? how israel’s illegal occupation of palestinian west bank exacerbates the coronavirus crisis middle east monitor donald trump “get it yourselves!” – trump’s ‘every man for himself’ approach to the covid-19 national emergency john feffer climate crisis why countries should use coronavirus economic stimulus to transition to green new deal clean energy wire popular trump, putting profit motive and reelection over public health, undermining coronavirus social distancing strategy medical worker on covid-19: struck me how different it is when i saw young guy gasping out pink froth what’s the point of bailing out hurting ceos if they just use funds to buy back stock & feather their nests? 17 years and $2 trillion ago, bush and neocons thought it would be a good idea to attack iraq the contango tango: secstate pompeo pressures saudis to raise gasoline prices, harming us consumers sign up for our newsletter email © 2020 all rights reserved