 share this content on   menu please enter your keyword about us report issue online issues screen time cyberbullying inappropriate content online reputation online grooming online pornography sexting self-harm radicalisation privacy and identity theft advice by age pre-school (0-5) young children (6-10) pre-teen (11-13) teens ( 14+) setting controls smartphones and other devices broadband & mobile networks gaming platforms and devices social media privacy guides entertainment & search engines get kids tech set up safe guides & resources digital resilience toolkit social media guide guide to apps online gaming advice hub guide to buying tech set up safe device checklist online safety leaflets & resources news & opinion articles research parent stories expert opinion our expert panel vulnerable children online blog schools resources early years resources primary school resources secondary school resources policy and training resources parent pack for teachers back to school online safety guides helping parents keep their children safe online your browser does not support the video tag. supporting families online get expert support and practical tips to help children benefit from connected technology and the internet safely and smartly. i need help with an online issue i need to report something i need help setting controls and privacy settings on a child’s device see our new #staysafestayhome to get advice on how to tech can support your family during these challenging times tips & advice from age-specific online safety checklists to guides on how to set parental controls on a range of devices, you’ll find a host of practical tips to help children get the most out of their digital world. get age-specific advice whatever their age, find simple, practical advice to keep children safe online. set up devices safely set controls on a range of devices, apps, and platforms with our how-to guides. find school resources use our resources hub to find online safety resources to use in the classroom and with parents. online issues what issues could be affecting your children? get to grips with what they may come across on the internet and how to get help if you need it. find out what to do if you’re worried about anything you or your child has seen online. cyberbullying sexting self harm screen time radicalisation pornography online reputation online grooming inappropriate content identity theft learn more featured on internet matters featured topics google and youtube launch new ‘teach from home’ resource for teachers and families to make it easier for teachers and families to support children's education from home, google has launched the 'teach from… | articles | 26th march 2020 read more featured topics 10 fun things to do with your family start having fun now! click on the links below to discover: netflix watch party facebook watch party operation storytime by… | articles | 25th march 2020 read more featured topics a parent’s reaction to the latest school closures what did you do when the schools announced they’re closing? in tracey kifford’s case, you turn your dining room into… | parent stories | 24th march 2020 read more featured topics mum shares her experience with working from home the challenges kerri-anne admits she is struggling with some guilt about isolating the family. “the challenge will always be guilt.… | parent stories | 23rd march 2020 read more featured topics 5 tips for working from home with children during the coronavirus outbreak here are five top tips to help you and your children during this time: 1. create a schedule sit down… | articles | 20th march 2020 read more guides & resources see our recommended online safety resources featuring our parents’ guides and a host of resources to support parents and teacher to help children stay safe online. see latest latest poll help us, help you - take the poll to let us know which issue you'd like more expert advice on. what online safety topic would you like to know more about? ways to improve digital wellbeing managing children's screen time impact of social media on teens view poll results ways to improve digital wellbeing 32% managing children's screen time 34% impact of social media on teens 34% hide poll results our work with partners we are proud to work with core members and corporate partners who actively contribute to helping us reach parents with the right support at the right time to make a real impact on children’s safety online. click on the logos to see how they support us. corporate partners find out more about how we work together our awards and memberships ukcis executive members cyberbullying taskforce member aba member cea winner dma winner online issues cyberbullying inappropriate content sexting self-harm screen time radicalisation online grooming online pornography online reputation privacy and identity theft advice by age pre-school (0-5) young children (6-10) pre-teen (11-13) teens ( 14+) setting controls smartphones and other devices broadband & mobile networks gaming platform & other devices social media privacy guides entertainment & search engines resources digital resilience toolkit social media advice hub guide to apps gaming advice hub accessibility on internet matters schools resources early years resources primary school resources secondary school resources parent pack for teachers news & opinion our expert panel follow us want to read in other language? english chinese (simplified) dutch english french german hindi italian polish portuguese spanish welsh need to address an issue fast? report issue subscribe to our newsletter please enter email * about us contact us privacy policy copyright 2020 internetmatters.org™ all rights reserved. scroll up our site uses cookies to give you the best experience. by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. to find out how they used.accept