about us our story marketing solutions careers contact us menu close about us our story marketing solutions careers contact us terms and website use these terms of website use (together with the documents referred to herein) (collectively, these “terms”) inform you of the terms and conditions pursuant to which you may make use of our website, www.informaconnect.com or any other of our sites that you have linked from (collectively, our “site”), whether as a guest or an authorised user. use of our site includes accessing, browsing, or registering to use our site. please read these terms carefully before you start to use our site, as these will apply to your use of our site. we recommend that you print a copy of these terms for future reference. by accessing, browsing, or using this site, you acknowledge that you have read, understood, and agree to be bound by these terms. if you do not agree to these terms, you must not use our site. changes to these terms we may revise these terms at any time by amending this page. you are expected to check this page from time to time to take notice of any changes we make, as they are binding on you. some of the provisions contained in these terms may also be superseded by provisions or notices published elsewhere on our site. information about us informaconnect.com is a site operated by informa connect ("we"), below are the entities that use informaconnect.com to showcase their products. to find which entity applies to the site you came from, please refer to the relevant site. purpose of the site the purpose of the site is to provide you with information, news, products and services related to informa connect. informa entity company number registered/principal office informa connect limited (formerly iir limited) 1835199 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg new ag international sarl 507590990 2 rue de lisbonne, 75008, paris, france ebd group gmbh 173151 westenriederstrasse 19 80331 munich, germany informa media, inc. n/a 605 3rd avenue, 22nd floor, new york, ny 10158, united states informa business media, inc. n/a 6605 3rd avenue, 22nd floor, new york, ny 10158, united states knect365 us, inc. n/a 605 3rd avenue, 22nd floor, new york, ny 10158, united states informa middle east ltd (dubai branch) 126878 trading address: level 20, sheikh rashid tower, dubai world trade center, p.o. box 9428, dubai, united arab emirates informa australia pty ltd 086268313 level 18, 347 kent street, sydney nsw 2000, australia informa tharawat ltd 58658 p.o. box 545, doha, qatar informa saudi arabia ltd 1010948801 office 109, 1st floor, aban center king, abdulaziz road, alghadir district, riyadh 13311, ksa informa canada inc. n/a 12th floor, 20 eglinton avenue west, yonge eglinton centre, toronto on m4r 1k8 canada informa pop culture events, inc. n/a 101 paramount drive, suite 100, sarasota, fl 34232 informa princeton llc n/a 605 3rd avenue, 22nd floor, new york, ny 10158, united states cbi research, inc. n/a 70 blanchard road, suite 301, burlington ma 01803, united states other terms and conditions this site links to other sites within informa connect and the informa group. please note that additional terms and conditions may apply to products and services hosted on this and other sites. please ensure that you review these where they are drawn to your attention. privacy your personal information will be used in accordance with our privacy policy. accessing our site we will try to make our site available but cannot guarantee that our site will operate continuously or without interruptions or is error free or is virus free, and can accept no liability on account of unavailability, interruptions, errors or viruses. you must not attempt to interfere with the proper working of our site and, in particular, you must not attempt to circumvent security, tamper with, hack into, or otherwise disrupt any computer system, server, website, router or any other internet connected device. you are responsible for making all arrangements necessary for you to have access to our site. you are also responsible for ensuring that all persons who access our site through your internet connection are aware of these terms and other applicable terms and conditions, and that they comply with them. usage and restrictions you agree not to decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble, rent, lease, loan, sublicense or create derivative works from any informa connect product or service, including the information and software made available for your use. unless specified otherwise by informa connect, you may not copy, save, download, modify, reproduce, republish, distribute, transmit or use for any purposes, whether commercial or non-commercial, any informa connect websites or any information contained therein, except to the extent required for you to use and navigate informa connect websites and informa connect products and services. you may not publish, distribute, extract, re-utilise, or reproduce any part of the site in any form (including photocopying or storing it in any medium by electronic means) other than (i) as specifically permitted by applicable law, and (ii) by making copies as part of any necessary incidental acts during your viewing of the site or for solely educational, non-commercial purposes. in particular but not without limitation you agree not to: (a) download or otherwise extract substantive amounts of information concerning registered users or their companies, or (b) make any information from informa connect products available to third parties that would not otherwise have access to such information. you acknowledge that by submitting your personal and company information to an informa connect website or any informa connect service, you grant to informa connect, the informa group and their respective licensees, successors and assigns a royalty-free licence to use that information within their websites and in ways necessary for the functioning of informa connect’s products and services. usage information generated by your usage of the systems (including messages and meeting invites) may also be visible to your colleagues using the same platform as well as all colleagues in the company which you have shared messages with. you acknowledge that when using any networking system or any community platform made available on this website, you shall be bound by the following informa connect behavioural conditions: (a) you agree that any information you enter is true and accurate to the best of your knowledge; (b) you agree to respect other users of the services and shall refrain from contacting other users with untargeted announcements or requests; (c) you shall not send messages, upload or link to any defamatory, offensive, harassing, misleading or unlawful content; (d) you shall not upload or link to content which violates a third party’s intellectual property rights or privacy rights; informa connect reserves the right to remove any messages, content or hyperlinks which it believes, in its sole discretion, breaches these conditions and to temporarily or permanently block users who persistently breach these conditions. informa connect shall not accept responsibility for the accuracy or reliability of the information submitted by other users and informa connect shall not be held liable for any message or content sent or posted by a user of any informa connect services. intellectual property we are the owner or the licensee of all copyright, trade marks, design rights, database rights, confidential information or any other intellectual property rights (together the “intellectual property”) in our site, unless otherwise stated. the intellectual property in our site is protected by copyright and other intellectual property laws and treaties around the world. all such rights are reserved. you may not distribute products or offer services under or by reference to or otherwise use or reproduce any of the trade marks, trade names or service marks on this site without the prior written permission of knect365 or, where applicable, the owner of such trade marks, trade names or service marks. links to third party websites or resources informa connect is not responsible for the content of external websites. this site may include links to other websites from time to time and so when you access certain links in this site you may leave the site. these links are provided for your convenience. external websites are not part of this site and we do not endorse or accept any responsibility for the content of those websites (nor the products or services on them), are not responsible for the availability of the websites and will not be liable in any way for any loss or damage which you may suffer by using those websites. if you decide to access linked websites you do so at your own risk. viruses we do not guarantee that our site will be secure or free from bugs or viruses. you are responsible for configuring your information technology, computer programmes and platform in order to access our site. you should use your own virus protection software. you must not misuse our site by introducing viruses, trojans, worms, logic bombs or other material which is malicious or technologically harmful. you must not attempt to gain unauthorised access to our site, the server on which our site is stored or any server, computer or database connected to our site. you must not attack our site via a denial-of-service attack or a distributed denial-of service attack. by breaching this provision, you would commit a criminal offence under the computer misuse act 1990 and may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. we will report any such breach to the relevant law enforcement authorities and we will co-operate with those authorities by disclosing your identity to them. in the event of such a breach, your right to use our site will cease immediately. no reliance although we will endeavour to keep the information made available from our site (the “site content”) updated and accurate, we cannot and do not warrant the accuracy or completeness of the site content, and you agree that we will not be liable to you or any third party for any adverse consequences arising as a result of the inaccuracy or incompleteness of the site content. you further agree that we will not be liable to you or any third party for any trading, investment, medical, commercial or other decisions made in reliance on the site content. implied terms the express provisions of these terms are in place of all warranties, conditions, terms, undertakings and obligations implied by statute, common law, trade usage, course of dealing or otherwise, all of which are excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law. liability the material on the site is provided "as is", without any conditions, warranties or other terms of any kind. we, any other party (whether or not involved in creating, producing, maintaining or delivering the site), and any of our group companies and the officers, directors, employees, shareholders or agents of any of them, exclude all liability and responsibility for any amount or kind of loss or damage that may result to you or a third party (including without limitation, any direct, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damages, or any loss of income, profits, goodwill, data, contracts, use of money, or loss or damages arising from or connected in any way to business interruption, and whether in tort (including without limitation negligence), contract or otherwise) in connection with the site in any way or in connection with the use, inability to use or the results of use of the site, any community platform made available through the site, any websites linked to the site or the material on such websites, including but not limited to loss or damage due to viruses that may infect your computer equipment, software, data or other property on account of your access to, use of, or browsing the site or your downloading of any material from the site or any websites linked to the site. nothing in these terms shall exclude or limit our liability for: (a) death or personal injury caused by negligence (as such term is defined by the unfair contract terms act 1977); or (b) fraud. if you breach these terms informa connect reserves the right to deny or suspend your access to a informa connect product or service, to modify or withdraw services without liability, and to limit the number of requests or messages sent by you. you shall be liable to us for any loss, liability or cost we (or any of our affiliates) suffer as a result of your use of this site or community platform or any breach of these terms and conditions. by using this site you agree to indemnify and hold harmless informa connect and its affiliates against all legal fees, claims, liabilities, damages, costs, losses and other expenses that may be incurred or suffered by informa connect or its affiliates as a result of your use of the site or breach of these terms and conditions. jurisdiction and applicable law the english courts will have non-exclusive jurisdiction over any claim arising from, or related to, a visit to our site, although we retain the right to bring proceedings against you for breach of these terms in your country of residence or any other relevant country. these terms and any dispute or claim arising out of or in connection with them or their subject matter or formation (including, without limitation, non-contractual disputes or claims) shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of england and wales. thank you for visiting our site. read our cookie policy read our cookie policy home about us our story careers contact us cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa connect limited. registered in england & wales with number 01835199, registered office 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. this website uses cookies, including third party ones, to allow for analysis of how people use our website in order to improve your experience and our services. by continuing to use our website, you agree to the use of such cookies. click here for more information on our cookie policy and privacy policy. close continue