welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog edx welcomes western governors university published on: jan 21, 2020 by catherine cho yoo 2307 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are thrilled to welcome western governors university (wgu) to the global community of edx partners. wgu was founded in 1997 by 19 u.s. governors to expand access to high quality, affordable higher education. the university is a leader in competency-based education, recognized by the white house and state leaders as a model that works in postsecondary education. the online, nonprofit university serves 120,000 students... read more about edx welcomes western governors university announcing microbachelors® programs, an innovative undergraduate-level credential that will transform the future of work and higher education published on: jan 08, 2020 by anant agarwal 2972 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post today, we are proud to announce microbachelors® programs, the first credit-backed stackable credential, marking a significant milestone in online learning. created by edx in an innovative partnership with top colleges, universities and fortune 1000 corporations, microbachelors programs deliver immediately transferable skills to meet the real-world needs of employers, while providing a pathway to a full bachelor’s degree. edx was founded on the mission to increase... read more about announcing microbachelors® programs, an innovative undergraduate-level credential that will transform the future of work and higher education fully online, top-ranked master’s degrees now available on edx published on: oct 10, 2018 by anant agarwal 9407 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post today we are proud to announce that edx launched nine new master’s degree programs. these online programs offer high-quality master’s education in a flexible way and at disruptive price points, in subjects that address today’s global skills gap. this new offering marks an important milestone for us, as we continue to reimagine education through innovative, stackable credentials that address the needs of today’s changing global... read more about fully online, top-ranked master’s degrees now available on edx how to start your stem career – six technology courses published on: jul 27, 2017 by carolyn tiernan 8161 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in a series of four blog posts, we’ll be highlighting courses available on edx that you can take as your first steps towards exploring and learning stem – science, technology, engineering and math – skills. read the first blog featuring science courses, here. “technology” is arguably the most ambiguous of the disciplines identified in stem, primarily because technology is an ingrained part of everyone’s lives.... read more about how to start your stem career – six technology courses top paying jobs of 2016 and the skills to get you started published on: jun 13, 2016 by david mcpherson 28007 views 4 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post glassdoor.com recently published a list of the highest paying jobs in america for 2016 based on salary data that people with these jobs shared in the past year. while doctors and lawyers topped the list, it is interesting to note, and not all that surprising, that the majority of careers in the top 25 were in information technology. with the exponential growth of the internet... read more about top paying jobs of 2016 and the skills to get you started hot it jobs for 2016 published on: feb 11, 2016 by david mcpherson 11093 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post according to the u.s. bureau of labor statistics, jobs in the field of information technology are expected to grow 12% by 2024 with over 480,000 new positions in the fields of network security, cloud computing and it management. it jobs consistently rank high on indeed’s list of the top 30 computer and internet job titles and u.s. news and world report ranks the job of... read more about hot it jobs for 2016 documentaries, engineering, and it innovation on edx this week! published on: jul 17, 2015 by mukta g 14780 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post whether you are interested in delving into the world of documentary filmmaking, electrical engineering, or trying to revolutionize your workplace, edx has just what you are looking for this week. check out these amazing new offerings and enroll today!by mukta ghorpadey five courses to be tech-savvy in 2015 published on: feb 23, 2015 by michele palmer 7386 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post ready to learn a new programming language or build on your previous programming knowledge? curious about how your smartphone works, or how to create an android app? check out the courses below, and enroll today to become truly tech-savvy in 2015! the university of tokyo joins edx published on: feb 18, 2014 by candace hazlett 3596 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are proud to welcome the university of tokyo, one of the world’s most prominent research and teaching universities, as our 32nd xconsortium member. the university of tokyo was established in 1877 as the first national university in japan. as a leading research university, utokyo offers courses in essentially all academic disciplines at both undergraduate and graduate levels and conducts research across the full spectrum... read more about the university of tokyo joins edx search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close