home comments policy subscribe posts by author: ingrid free readings! by ingrid robeyns on march 21, 2020 many of us are currently locked up, in one way or another. for some of us this means no time for leisure – the people who are ill, the health workers currently making heroic double and triple shifts, workers struggling to get their work done in a virtual way, and parents and other careworkers being overwhelmed by the 24/7 homeschooling and carework. but for others, it means more time to read or watch movies, since there is nowhere to go. and given that acts of kindness and solidarity are now especially important, it’s nice to see that some publishing houses are putting out some of their book for free for everyone to download. thanks! let’s share what we know is available. here’s a start – verso is offering 5 books (in ebook format) for free, which are all contributions to the post-pandemic world we might want to strive for. and of course, pandemic or no pandemic, fully open access academic publishers, such as open book publishers, are always providing us with free readings. not all pdfs are for free, but some are, including noam chomsky’s delhi lectures on democracy and power. have you come across other intellectual, artistic, entertaining or otherwise valuable resources that have been made freely available to all? the consequences of overtime in dutch academia by ingrid robeyns on january 20, 2020 today, i joined three colleagues to head to the hague to hand over a report of 720 formal complaints of structural overtime in academia and its negative consequences to the labour inspectorate. these complaints were filed as a single collective complaint by two labour unions, on behalf of woinactie, the activist group of academics that tries to improve working and learning conditions in academia. the main claim of woinactie has been that the dutch universities (which are all public), have become inadequately funded due to the rising number of students over the last two decades, and that this has caused structural overtime to be necessary to get the work done, which in turn harms the mental, physical and social well-being of university staff. and it’s also harming the quality of our teaching. the report released today, which we translated in english (in order to inform and inspire the debate on overtime work in academia internationally), reveals the nature of the negative consequences. colleagues report negative effects on their mental and physical health, sleep deprivation, constant worrying, deterioration of their friendships and other social relations, insufficient time for self-care including doing exercise, and so forth. the main problem is that the notional hours that are given to teach a course or do supervision (cfr. this post on phd-supervision) are inadequate, and hence a 70% teaching load leads to a more-than-fulltime workload. and since everyone also wants to, needs to, and/or is expected to do research, that also still needs to be done. add some administration and/or leadership tasks, and societal outreach, and we easily make 55 hours a week. for colleagues who only teach, and who are on the lowest pay scales, this also means they have troubles buying a house or starting a family, since those contracts are almost always part-time, and hence also create financial stress. [click to continue…] time for phd supervision by ingrid robeyns on december 29, 2019 some aspects of academia show great international variation. there is one on which i haven’t found any good data, and hence thought i’ll ask the crowd here so that we can gather our own data, even if it will be not very scientifically collected. the question is this: if you are a university teacher/professor and your department awards phd-degrees, do you get any official time allocated (or time-compensation) for phd supervision? if it is part of a teaching load model, how many hours (or % teaching load) is it equivalent to? or is there an expectation that you take on phd-students but that this does not lead to a reduction in other tasks? how do international practices of the conditions for phd-supervisors compare? [click to continue…] free mooc on inequality and democracy – starting on monday! by ingrid robeyns on november 8, 2019 my colleagues put together a free mooc that gives an introduction to the relationships between economic inequality and democracy (in particular political equality). i saw them working very hard over the months – it’s a hell of a lot of work to make a mooc, even more so if you do this as a voluntary add-on to your regular work. hence i’d like to salute them for their efforts, and share this with you since i’m a big fan of all things open access. i do not doubt that this will be interesting for people who are new to this question – which does not include most of the readers of this blog since we’ve been discussing these issues here repeatedly. but if you know people who might be interested, do let them now. there is no required background, and the mooc is offered for free. more information below the fold. [click to continue…] the imprints’ archive by ingrid robeyns on october 12, 2019 almost ten years ago, chris wrote a blogpost announcing that the last issue of imprints had been sent to the subscribers. political philosophers beyond a certain age had greatly enjoyed the articles, bookreviews and interviews published by imprints, but it was not possible to continue. but we should not forget – and this post is merely a reminder for us not to forget – that the entire imprints’ archive is online. i was reminded of this yesterday, when i went to a lecture by elizabeth anderson in amsterdam, who – to my surprise – during her talk endorsed limitarianism. chris remarked on fb that this was a departure from her earlier views in which she merely supported sufficientarianism. the 2005 interview with anderson in imprints seems to support chris’ observation, since she said (p. 15) the following: ‘some people care about getting lost of this stuff [that doesn’t matter from a political point of view]. once citizens’ satiable interest in securing social equality are satisfied, and he system secures for all a decent chance to get more, the state has no further interests of justice in micromanaging how the gains from cooperation are divided.” [click to continue…] the most blasphemous idea in contemporary discourse? by ingrid robeyns on september 21, 2019 i have no idea how he found it, but george monbiot read an (open access) academic article that i wrote, with the title “what, if anything, is wrong with extreme wealth?’ in this paper i outline some arguments for the view that there should be an upper limit to how much income and wealth a person can hold, which i called (economic) limitarianism. monbiot endorses limitarianism, saying that it is inevitable if we want to safeguard life on earth. as monbiot’s piece rightly points out, there are many reasons to believe that there should be a cap on how much money we can have. having too much money is statistically highly likely to lead to taking much more than one’s fair share from the atmosphere’s greenhouse gasses absorbing capacity and other ecological commons; it is a threat to genuine democracy; it is harmful to the psychological wellbeing of the children of the rich, and to the capacity of the rich to act autonomously when it concerns moral questions (which includes the reduced capacity for empathy of the rich); and, as i’ve argued in a short dutch book on the topic that i published earlier this year, extreme wealth is hardly ever (if ever at all) deserved. and if those reasons weren’t enough, one can still add the line of peter singer and the effective altruists that excess money would have much greater moral and prudential value if it were spent on genuine needs, rather than on frivolous wants. monbiot wrote: “this call for a levelling down is perhaps the most blasphemous idea in contemporary discourse.” [click to continue…] what to do about gender and geo/linguistic bias in academic citations? by ingrid robeyns on august 22, 2019 david and eric schwitzgebel have made a list of the 295 most cited philosophers in the stanford encyclopedia of philosophy. on facebook, harry commented: nussbaum is #10 on this list—not especially surprising. the next woman on the list is anscombe, at #48. then korsgaard at #57, anderson at #63. foot comes in at #139 (after millikan, cartwright, thomson, young and annas). 10 women in the top 139 is a bit shocking, but the low ranking of anscombe and foot is more than a bit shocking. some of it can be explained away—the list favors the present over the past (and especially, i would guess, the teachers of the people who write for sep), it favors people who’ve written many somewhat influential pieces over people who have written a few very influential pieces, and it favors people who write about many things over those who write about few things. but add all of those factors together and you don’t come close to explaining why there are so few women in the top #139, and you come even less close to explaining the rankings of anscombe and foot in particular. it is quite depressing indeed, but not at all surprising. there are enough research papers showing that, trying to keep all other factors constant (e.g. by conducting audit studies), women receive less recognition in academia than men. no need to review that literature here again. not only the women who would be candidates for “top 295” lists, but across the full spectrum of degrees of seniority. but there is more to be said. [click to continue…] how to debate universal basic income by ingrid robeyns on june 9, 2019 daron acemoglu has a piece at project syndicate arguing that basic income is a bad policy. his argument, in a nutshell, is that a truly universal basic income (ubi) would be prohibitively expensive, and that raising additional taxes to pay it “would impose massive distortionary costs on the economy”. the alternative, to cut all existing social programs for the sake of ubi, would be “a terrible idea”, since these programs are targeting those that are particularly vulnerable or needy. he argues that the political effects of a ubi would be bad – a ubi would “keep people at home, distracted, and otherwise pacified”, whereas “we need to rejuvenate democratic politics, boost civic involvement, and seek collective solutions”. for acemoglu, the top priorities in the usa should be “universal health care, more generous unemployment benefits, better-designed retraining programs, and an expanded earned income tax credit (eitc)”, as well as higher minimum wages. i share acemoglu’s view that “one should always be wary of simple solutions to complex problems, and universal basic income is no exception.” in a paper i wrote last year (alas, in dutch, and i haven’t had the time to translate it, but perhaps google translate can help us a little), i’ve argued that the debate on universal basic income is confused and confusing, and will not be getting us far, because too many papers/interventions are not clear about their assumptions, are not spelling out the goals (e.g. is the primary aim poverty reduction or creating freedom from the need to submit to the labour market for survival or something else), and are not giving the details of the package deal. [click to continue…] five stitches and røbic’s music by ingrid robeyns on may 12, 2019 i was for the second time in my life as a parent on the emergency room yesterday. our youngest (11yo) son and i went shopping in the afternoon, and bought a new bread knife. well, it was sharp, and because he has been using our (very old) bread knife for a long time without ever causing any problems, we had not worried enough about what would happen if we let him use a razor-sharp new bread knife. he made a mistake when cutting a bun, and suddenly was standing in front of me with a yawning gap in his hand. [click to continue…] a moral puzzle on individual climate action by ingrid robeyns on april 23, 2019 the dutch philosopher marc davidson posted the following on the closed fb-group climate ethics research (reproduced here with marc’s permission): who can help with this moral riddle? somewhere in the near future i have to be in venice [leaving from amsterdam]. i can take the train for about 200 euro, which emits 0.04 ton co2. or i can take the plane for about 40 euro, which emits 0.15 ton co2 and spend 160 euro on buying emissions rights from the eu ets which will remove 8 ton co2 emissions. what is better for the climate and what is the moral right thing to do? i really intend to spend the entire difference on compensation. [click to continue…] next week: the ethicslab launch in yaoundé by ingrid robeyns on march 16, 2019 next week, the ethicslab is launched in yaoundé, the capital of cameroon. this is a new research center on ethics and public policy at the université catholique d’afrique centrale, which aims to foster research on these issues in central africa. the launching is a big event, with one week of workshops as well as a conference where ethicists and political philosophers from around the world come together to help the ethicslab build its research agenda. the driving force behind the ethicslab is dr. thierry ngosso, currently a berggruen fellow at the j. safra center for ethics at harvard university, who has been working towards this launch for many years. i am in absolute admiration of how he has managed to get this together – given that he did this as a phd-student and subsequently during a series of temporary postdocs positions. but thierry has been very smart and very patient, building this step by step, first organising a series of summerschools with help of his (local and international) friends, and then taking the next step to launch the ethicslab. for me, as a european participant to this event, i also feel very excited about getting to know so many political philosophers and ethicists who are based in africa. the list of participants consists of a mixture of philosophers from different african countries, or african philosophers working outside africa, as well as international (mainly american and european) colleagues. it’s not surprising that we know colleagues from nearby places better than from further away places. but still, i know more international colleagues from the us, canada and australia than from africa or latin-america: resources, and possibly also language, matter too. so, three cheers for the ethicslab, and wishing them lots of success in strengthening ethics and political philosophy in central africa! lessons from dutch academic activism (part 1) by ingrid robeyns on march 15, 2019 i have been a very poor blogger here at ct recently. that’s because i took up a second job – namely becoming an activist for the reform of the funding of dutch academia. i have been wanting to try to write on this here repeatedly, but one thing that stopped me was that i didn’t know where to start. so rather than overstreching myself (what i have already been doing in real life…), i thought i can write a series of posts (irregularly, and i may not write more than two or three) on what general lessons one can learn from being an academic who engages in activism to reform academia. so off we go, with lesson 1. [click to continue…] on our way to zero net emissions by ingrid robeyns on january 3, 2019 in many avenues of my life, people are now discussing whether we should reduce our emissions and if so, how much they should reduce their emissions and what we will still permit ourselves to do (meat? flying? driving our gasoline car? buying some new stuff we would like but can also live without?). academically, the question of the fair division of the remaining emissions, as well as the question whether we should frame this as a moral duty for inviduals or rather merely to those in power to change institutions, are part of the fair limits project that i’m directing. politically, we’ve seen these questions discussed in newspapers, on blogs and on twitter, including penetrating comments such as this one by the swedish climate activist greta thunberg (who, according to wikipedia, turns 16 today – happy birthday, greta!): [click to continue…] a philosophical experiment about inequality by ingrid robeyns on december 3, 2018 crossposted by co-writer tim meijers at justice everywhere political philosophers often engage in thought experiments, which involve putting hypothetical persons in hypothetical scenarios. however, it is often challenging to find ways to involve real, non-hypothetical, people with the questions we are dealing with, aside from the more traditional ways to engage in outreach such as debates and opinion pieces. recently, the fair limits team* – which studies the plausibility of upper limits in the distribution of economic and ecological resources – attempted a new way to engage the public by making use of a participatory “veil-of-ignorance” thought experiment. [click to continue…] lang leve de jarigen! by ingrid robeyns on november 3, 2018 it’s chris’s 60th birthday today – happy birthday, chris! since this blog owes a lot to chris (that is an understatement…), i want to let you know that on fb, chris has launched a fundraiser for bristol refugee rights, an organisator supporting refugees in bristol of which chris is the chair of the trustees. if you’re on fb i am sure you can find your way there to the place to donate; otherwise, you can use this link. chris shares his birthday with my sister (gelukkige verjaardag, zusje!) and with my former phd-supervisor amartya sen, who celebrates his 85th birthday today (happy birthday, amartya!). since i was writing to them today, it occurred to me that the dutch language has a word that, according to my knowledge of english and the online dictionary that i consulted, doesn’t have an equivalent in english: de jarige – the person who has their birthday. either i am wrong, and then you sharp people will surely teach me a new word, or else i may have found one of the very few words in dutch that doesn’t have an english equivalent (most of the time, it’s the other way around). lang leve de jarigen! ← older entries recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter