call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact estate planning & inheritance tax planning it is important to remember that you don’t have to be a millionaire for your estate to be eligible for inheritance tax. the first £325,000 (2017 / 2018) of an individual’s estate is taxed at 0% and is therefore not liable to inheritance tax. for married couples and registered civil partners it is currently £650,000, as it is for widows or widowers where their deceased partner did not use their nil rate band on death. anything in excess of this amount is taxed at 40% on death. this includes: your home and car your furniture and personal effects your investments and savings the proceeds of your life insurance (unless under trust) most people nowadays are therefore liable for this tax unless they plan positively, and quite legally, to defer or avoid this responsibility. the rate of inheritance tax is 40% for everyone. this is equivalent to the highest current rate for income tax. the tax is paid by those that inherit – and is deducted from the value of the estate on death – so inheritance tax is relevant whether you stand to gain an inheritance or you plan to leave one. following the severe stock market volatility over the last few years, now may be an ideal time to review the whole of your financial portfolio. i can help with the following: investment strategies for income and capital growth increasing your income in retirement reducing the impact of inheritance tax (your home probably equals the nil rate band of inheritance tax) my aim is to show you how you can protect your capital from the ravages of income tax, capital gain tax and inflation. i also offer financial planning for inheritance tax. if you are unsure whether it is worthwhile for you to give me a call, ask yourself the following questions: what effect will the cost of long term or immediate care have on my investments and assets? is my capital growing to my satisfaction? will my income keep pace with inflation? can my taxation be reduced? who will benefit most on my death – the tax man or my heirs? if you have any doubts about your answers to these questions please give me a call call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.