billionaires all billionaires world’s billionaires forbes 400 america’s richest self-made women china’s richest india’s richest indonesia’s richest korea’s richest thailand’s richest japan’s richest australia’s richest taiwan’s richest singapore’s richest philippines’ richest hong kong’s richest malaysia’s richest money & politics 2020 money innovation all innovation 5g ai big data cio network cloud cloud 100 consumer tech cybersecurity enterprise tech everbridge brandvoice | paid program games green tech healthcare ibm brandvoice | paid program oracle brandvoice | paid program sap brandvoice | paid program science servicenow brandvoice | paid program social media t-mobile for business brandvoice | paid program venture capital leadership all leadership careers cfo network cmo network deloitte brandvoice | paid program diversity & inclusion education forbeswomen google cloud brandvoice | paid program leadership strategy under 30 money all money banking & insurance crypto & blockchain etfs & mutual funds fintech hedge funds & private equity investing markets personal finance premium investing newsletters retirement taxes wealth management business all business aerospace & defense energy food & drink hollywood & entertainment manufacturing media mitsubishi heavy industries brandvoice | paid program policy real estate retail sportsmoney transportation small business all small business entrepreneurs franchises small business strategy lifestyle all lifestyle amway brandvoice | paid program arts boats & planes cars & bikes dining forbeslife forbes travel guide spirits travel vices watches lists advisor all advisor the best credit cards of 2020 best travel credit cards best business credit cards best credit card sign up bonuses best rewards credit cards best student credit cards best cash back credit cards best balance transfer credit cards best hotel credit cards best airline credit cards best first credit cards best credit cards for bad credit chase sapphire preferred card citi double cash card the platinum card from american express ink business preferred credit card bank of america premium rewards credit card chase sapphire reserve card best tax software of 2020 best travel insurance companies featured 5 innovations changing the future of food 30 under 30 2020 aarp brandvoice | paid program abb brandvoice | paid program chase home lending brandvoice | paid program cole haan brandvoice | paid program dna of success forbes analytics plus with teradata | paid program forbes insights with arm treasure data investor forecast: 5 key trends shaping your financial future money 2020 set up for success: launch your small business from scratch set up for success: scale your small business forbes insights with vertiv | paid program voices of success well earned: the world’s wealthiest celebrate new milestones breaking all breaking coronavirus more forbes daily cover stories forbes editors’ picks daily dozen briefing crypto confidential newsletters forbes shopping forbes coupons forbes 8 forbes video dark capital forbes magazine investing digest free issue of forbes ink business preferred® credit card apply now on chase's secure website advisor credit cards ink business preferred credit card review advertiser disclosure ink business preferred credit card review sebastian obando contributor i advisor updated: mar 16, 2020, 10:04am i cover personal finance related topics. editorial note: forbes may earn a commission on sales made from partner links on this page, but that doesn't affect our editors' opinions or evaluations. our verdict the ink business preferred® credit card offers one of the highest welcome bonuses at 100,000 bonus points after meeting minimum spending requirements. when used for travel through chase ultimate rewards, these points are worth $1,250 and points can be transferred to partners like united and hyatt where they can be worth even more. add in 3 points per dollar spent on travel purchases and select business categories for the first $150,000 spent each account anniversary, and it becomes clear why this card earned a coveted spot in the forbes list of the best business credit cards. pros remarkable welcome bonus no foreign transaction fee free cards for employees rewards for common business expenses cons high penalty apr if you miss a payment has annual fee high 5% fee for cash advance (min $15) high 5% fee for balance transfer (min $5) highlights new offer! earn 100k bonus points after you spend $15,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that’s $1,250 toward travel when redeemed through chase ultimate rewards® earn 3 points per $1 on the first $150,000 spent on travel and select business categories each account anniversary year earn 1 point per $1 on all other purchases – with no limit to the amount you can earn points are worth 25% more when you redeem for travel through chase ultimate rewards redeem points for travel, cash back, gift cards and more – your points don’t expire as long as your account is open no foreign transaction fees employee cards at no additional cost $95 annual fee more highlights ink business preferred® credit card apply now → apply now on chase's secure website regular apr 17.49% - 22.49% variable annual fee $95 welcome bonus 100,000 bonus points credit score excellent credit table of contents at a glance welcome bonus rewards transferring points the fine print pros & cons frequently asked questions at a glance the ink business preferred credit card is best known for two things. first is its remarkable signup bonus. the 100,000 bonus points new cardholders can earn are worth $1,250 when used for travel purchased through chase ultimate rewards. second, its 3 points per dollar spent earned on the first $150,000 in annual spending on travel, shipping purchases, internet, cable and phone services and online advertising make it ideal for many small businesses. in this review, we take an in depth look at the card to help you determine if it’s the best card for your business. earn 3 points per dollar spent on travel and select business categories on first $150,000 spent each year after that, earn 1 point per dollar spent all other purchases earn 1 point per dollar spent earn 100,000 bonus points after you spend $15,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. access to chase ultimate rewards program 25% redemption bonus when points are used through chase ultimate rewards ability to transfer chase ultimate rewards points to airline and hotel partners like united and hyatt get cards for your employees at no additional cost no foreign transaction fees $95 annual fee welcome bonus one of the chase ink business preferred credit card’s best benefits is its spectacular welcome bonus. earn 100,000 bonus points after you spend $15,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening.. the value of these points depends on how you redeem them. redeeming 100,000 bonus points for a statement credit, for example, makes them worth $1,000. redeem them for travel through chase ultimate rewards, however, and the value jumps to $1,250. the increased value is thanks to the 25% bonus you get when redeeming points for travel through chase ultimate rewards. in some cases, the 100,000 bonus points can be worth $2,000 or more. card members have the option of transferring points to one of chase’s airline and hotel partners. ultimate rewards points can be transferred at a 1:1 ratio to most partners, meaning that you could have 100,000 airline miles after transferring your points. miles on many airlines can be worth 2 cents per mile or more, depending on how they are redeemed. regardless of how you redeem the 100,000 bonus points, the chase ink business preferred card’s welcome bonus is one of the highest available today, which makes it the top card in the forbes list of best credit cards sign up bonuses. rewards earning rewards the chase ink business preferred credit card offers two levels of rewards beyond the welcome bonus: earn 3 points per dollar spent on travel purchases and select business categories on the first $150,000 spent each account anniversary year after that, earn 1 point per dollar spent earn 1 point per dollar spent on all other purchases the categories earning 3 points per dollar are the following: travel shipping purchases internet cable and phone services advertising purchases made with social media sites and search engines after $150,000 is spent on combined purchases in these categories each account anniversary year, you’ll earn 1 point per dollar spent, with no limit. the 3x reward level on advertising purchases made on social media and search engine platforms is unique among business cards. this benefit makes the card ideal for those businesses with heavy online ad spending. redeeming rewards there are several options for redeeming rewards with the chase ink business preferred credit card. cardholders can redeem points for cash, gift cards, travel, and products or services made available through the program or directly from third party merchants. but cardholders will find redeeming for travel with the chase ink business preferred credit card is the best use of points. the card offers two approaches to redeeming points for travel. first, as noted above, you can redeem points for travel through chase ultimate rewards. the key benefit here is the 25% bonus in value for your points, making every point worth 1.25 cents. as a result, the 3x rewards rate has an increased value of 3.75% back on your purchases. second, and potentially more valuable, is the ability to transfer the points to one of chase’s airline or hotel partners. transferring points you can transfer points to chase’s airline and hotel program partners, though the value of the rewards will differ. so make sure to check if transferring points makes sense (more on transfer values below). here are chase’s airline transfer partners: aer lingus aerclub british airways executive club flying blue air france klm iberia plus jetblue singapore airlines krisflyer southwest airlines rapid rewards united airlines mileageplus virgin atlantic flying club here are chase’s hotel transfer partners: world of hyatt ihg rewards club marriott rewards as an example, we’ve found united miles to have a value of 2 cents. the actual value will vary based on the cost of the flight you want to book and the number of miles required for the award ticket. it’s always best to look both of these things up before you transfer your points and make sure that you’re getting a better deal compared with redeeming you points through chase ultimate rewards. if you are able to find an award available where your points are worth 2 cents each, the 3x rewards rate is essentially a 6% return on your spending in those categories. your mileage may vary (pun intended). rewards potential the rewards potential for the chase ink business credit card will be entirely dependent on how you use the card and whether the business expenses you put on the card cross the $150,000 threshold. the card is best suited for those businesses with significant travel expenses, online advertising budgets, or both. for our purposes, we’ll assume the following: a business spends $12,500 a month on categories that earn 3 points per dollar spent a business spends $5,000 a month on all other categories earning 1 point per dollar spent based on these assumptions, the business would earn points in the first year as follows: 100,000 bonus points 450,000 points from 3x categories ($12,500 x 12 x 3x) 60,000 points from 1x categories ($5,000 x 12 x 1x) in this example, the first-year point total would be 610,000 ultimate rewards points earned. if the business used these points for travel through chase ultimate rewards, the value of the points would be $7,625 thanks to the 25% chase ultimate rewards bonus. if you transfer these points to a partner airline they could be worth over $11,000. of course, not every business spends $12,500 a month on travel and online advertising. a small business spending even half that, however, would still generate annual rewards potentially worth thousands of dollars. other card benefits employee cards: add employee cards at no additional cost and set individual spending limits cell phone protection: when you use the ink business preferred credit card to pay your cell phone bill, you are covered up to $600 per claim for covered theft or damage to the phone. this coverage extends to employees listed on your monthly cell phone bill. there is a maximum of three claims per year and a $100 deductible trip cancellation and interruption insurance: coverage is up to $5,000 for pre-paid non-refundable travel expenses auto rental collision damage waiver purchase protection: new purchases made with the card are covered against theft or damage up to $10,000 per claim and $50,000 per account the fine print interest rates 17.49% - 22.49% variable $95 annual fee apr for cash advance: 26.49% variable fees annual fee: $95 balance transfer fee: either $5 or 5% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater. cash advance: either $15 or 5% of the amount of each transaction, whichever is greater. foreign transaction fees: $0 late penalty: $39 returned payment: $39 pros & cons what we like rewards for common business expenses large sign-up bonus no foreign transaction fee access to chase ultimate rewards program free cards for employees what could be better annual fee high apr if you miss a payment frequently asked questions do you need a business to get the chase ink business preferred credit card? the chase ink business preferred card is a small business credit card. you do not need, however, an employee identification number (ein) to apply for the card. a sole proprietorship can use the social security number of the owner. how do you qualify for the chase ink business preferred credit card? as noted above, this card is for businesses. while a sole proprietorship using a social security number can qualify for this card, all applicants must certify that the card will be used for business purposes only. in addition, while chase does not disclose its specific underwriting standards, the card generally requires excellent credit for approval. which chase business credit card is the best? this depends entirely on how your business uses the card and plans to redeem the rewards. the chase ink business preferred credit card is best for business owners who frequently travel, advertise online, or both. next up in credit cards best credit card sign-up bonuses best business credit cards for travel chase sapphire preferred card review (our best overall travel card) best business credit cards best cash back business credit cards the best ways to use your miles haven't found the right card yet? check out these popular alternatives: chase sapphire reserve® learn more learn more chase sapphire reserve® earn 50,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that’s $750 toward travel when you redeem through chase ultimate rewards® $300 annual travel credit as reimbursement for travel purchases charged to your card each account anniversary year 3x points on travel immediately after earning your $300 travel credit. 3x points on dining at restaurants & 1 point per $1 spent on all other purchases. $0 foreign transaction fees. get 50% more value when you redeem your points for travel through chase ultimate rewards. for example, 50,000 points are worth $750 toward travel 1:1 point transfer to leading airline and hotel loyalty programs access to 1,000+ airport lounges worldwide after an easy, one-time enrollment in priority pass™ select up to $100 application fee credit for global entry or tsa pre✓® one year complimentary lyft pink ($199 minimum value). complimentary dashpass subscription from doordash after activating by 12/31/21. more info chase sapphire preferred® card learn more learn more chase sapphire preferred® card earn 60,000 bonus points after you spend $4,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. that’s $750 toward travel when you redeem through chase ultimate rewards® 2x points on travel and dining at restaurants worldwide & 1 point per dollar spent on all other purchases. get 25% more value when you redeem for airfare, hotels, car rentals and cruises through chase ultimate rewards. for example, 60,000 points are worth $750 toward travel get unlimited deliveries with a $0 delivery fee and reduced service fees on orders over $12 for a minimum of one year on qualifying food purchases with dashpass, doordash’s subscription service. activate by 12/31/21. earn 5x points on lyft rides through march 2022. that’s 3x points in addition to the 2x points you already earn on travel. more info you may also like the 5/24 rule: how opening and closing credit cards can backfire miles or cash: what’s the best way to pay for an airline ticket chase sapphire preferred vs. chase sapphire reserve united travelbank credit card review ihg rewards credit cards: which one is better? best credit cards for united flyers in march 2020 forbes adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. to the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. the opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved, or otherwise endorsed by our partners. sebastian obando contributor based in new york city and previously washington d.c., i cover personal finance related topics.#bio_separator_here#... read more first published: oct 22, 2019, 2:00pm find the best credit card find the best credit card the best credit cards of 2020 best balance transfer credit cards best cash back credit cards best rewards credit cards best credit cards for excellent credit best chase credit cards trending credit card reviews chase sapphire reserve review platinum card from american express review bank of america premium rewards credit card review capital one ventureone rewards card review citi double cash review credit card 101 the forbes guide to credit cards what is a good credit score a forbes guide to choosing a cash back credit card best credit cards for travelers best travel rewards credit cards best airline credit cards best hotel rewards credit cards best credit cards for road trips credit score ranges are based on fico® credit scoring. this is just one scoring method and a credit card issuer may use another method when considering your application. these are provided as guidelines only and approval is not guaranteed. earn 100,000 bonus points after you spend $15,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening. © 2020 forbes media llc. all rights reserved. adchoices adchoices privacy statement terms and conditions contact us send us feedback jobs at forbes reprints & permissions forbes press room forbes quote of the day advertise the forbes advisor editorial team is independent and objective. to help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the forbes advisor site. this compensation comes from two main sources. first, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. the compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. this site does not include all companies or products available within the market. second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. the compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on forbes advisor. while we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, forbes advisor does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. here is a list of our partners who offer products that we have affiliate links for. lorem are you sure you want to rest your choices? cancel ok