welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog the boston globe to offer job interviews to micromasters® program completers published on: feb 20, 2020 by carolyn tiernan 1872 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to announce the latest company that is collaborating with edx to offer job interviews for micromasters® program completers. to source candidates with data, digital, and strategic skill sets, boston globe media partners (bgmp) is offering job interviews for select micromasters program certificate holders for key roles with its the boston globe, boston.com, and stat brands. the boston globe will grant interviews to... read more about the boston globe to offer job interviews to micromasters® program completers edx insider with anant agarwal published on: jan 22, 2020 by livia halltari 1852 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post welcome to the latest edition of edx insider, where we give you a behind-the-scenes look at edx hq. in this special installment, we sit down with edx ceo & founder anant agarwal to discuss innovation, edx’s history, its future, and more. what thing are you most proud of that edx has accomplished since 2012? 2012 was an incredibly exciting time, when we had no idea... read more about edx insider with anant agarwal lifelong learning and career advancement on edx: meet andreas published on: jun 25, 2018 by carolyn tiernan 2923 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we recently talked with andreas who completed the micromasters program in managing technology and innovation from rwth aachen university on edx. here’s what andreas had to say about his experience earning his micromasters credential: how did you first learn about edx? i first read about edx in the mit technology review magazine back in 2014. after hearing about it, i signed up. i’ve been an... read more about lifelong learning and career advancement on edx: meet andreas new micromasters® programs offer in-depth knowledge in today’s hottest industries published on: jan 19, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 3198 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post launch your startup: new courses in entrepreneurship and innovation published on: mar 29, 2017 by david mcpherson 23207 views 2 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post do you have an idea for a new business and need help getting started? or have you always wanted to launch a business but need help generating ideas? edx has exciting new entrepreneurship courses designed to help you tackle the key challenges of launching a startup, covering everything from idea creation and market research to developing a pitch and obtaining venture capital. check out the upcoming... read more about launch your startup: new courses in entrepreneurship and innovation courses from top universities, designed for school leaders starting now published on: jan 17, 2017 by anant agarwal 5221 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in 2015, we were proud to announce a collaboration with microsoft to help k-12 school leaders spark innovation and enhance learning. today, that promise becomes a reality with microsoft in education on edx and the first course, launching innovation in schools from mitx, starts today with additional courses beginning in january, february and march. bringing together the best in technology with experts in education, microsoft... read more about courses from top universities, designed for school leaders starting now improving classrooms, schools, and educational systems: leading educational innovation and improvement micromasters published on: dec 08, 2016 by donald peurach, james devaney 6161 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this is a guest blog posts from donald peurach, associate professor of educational policy, leadership, and innovation in the school of education, university of michigan and james devaney, associate vice provost for academic innovation, university of michigan. the moment is ripe for renewal and reinvention in public education, in the united states and around the world. social, economic, and political dynamics are creating needs and opportunities... read more about improving classrooms, schools, and educational systems: leading educational innovation and improvement micromasters cutting-edge innovations drive cybersecurity training published on: oct 06, 2016 by mit professional education 5851 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we live in a world where everything is vulnerable. billions of devices are now connected, each with valuable information that bad actors are aggressively looking to exploit. a host of new tools may now be available but they are optimized to address yesterday’s challenges. the second one problem is fixed a new one arises. what if we could develop language level techniques that remove entire... read more about cutting-edge innovations drive cybersecurity training documentaries, engineering, and it innovation on edx this week! published on: jul 17, 2015 by mukta g 14780 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post whether you are interested in delving into the world of documentary filmmaking, electrical engineering, or trying to revolutionize your workplace, edx has just what you are looking for this week. check out these amazing new offerings and enroll today!by mukta ghorpadey alien worlds, user innovation, and more on edx this week! published on: may 29, 2015 by mukta g 3517 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post do you have an idea, but you aren’t sure how to bring it to life? are you curious about how planes fly, or how steel plays an important part in our lives? are you interested in learning stress management techniques? learn about all of this and much more on edx, and enroll today! search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close