home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library food and drink latest articles prevnext innovations in the travel food industry leyla preston fri 30th nov 2018 0shares share tweet pin there are a few things that go through parent’s minds when boarding a flight. have i forgotten anything? do i have my phone charger and snacks? is my child going to sit still for the duration of the flight? (probably not) and, what is the plane food going to be like? travel cuisine, and specifically airline food, has long held a reputation for being sub-par at best. but, this may be becoming an outdated concept. so, we’re going to explore the food on offer, by land, sea, and sky, to see what changes are happening with our travel food. table of contents by land: railway food by sea: ferry food by sky: airline food sources: by land: railway food when you think of railway food, you can imagine trolleys bustling down the aisles, serving average teas, coffees and wildly overpriced crisps and snacks. if you’re travelling in first class, then crisps, biscuits and dry sandwiches are about all you can expect from train travel. that’s only if you’re lucky, of course, as many services have now axed their onboard trolley services. many are sourcing a lack of sustainability (read: a lack of business) as the reason behind the decision to scale down or remove the catering service on their trains. there’s just no reason to pay so much for a sandwich or packet of crisps on-board the train when the same, if not better exists at the station’s platforms or local shops at a slightly lower price. train stations are filled to the brim with all kinds of outlets, and it’s not just burger king and whsmith on offer now. for many of us, it’s no trouble to pack our own food and bring that with us or grab something on the way to the platform. if you’ve upgraded to first-class, you’ll be treated to a complimentary menu most days, and at the very least some selection of snacks. but as the telegraph posits, the array of food often doesn’t come to much, and when you consider the price difference between a standard and a first-class ticket, you’re technically paying for the food you’re eating and then some. in fact, the tab’s annie lord tried to make a profit from her £49.00 first-class ticket via eating and drinking the complementary food. two hot drinks, six gin and tonics, one apple juice, one pepsi, one cake, one bag of nuts, a bag of crisps, a piece of fruit, a salad, and a few snacks later, annie made a profit of £5.65. a victory? by sea: ferry food travel by sea is nowhere near as popular as travelling via air, so that might be why we hear so little in the ways of criticism for sea-based cuisine. or perhaps it is because space isn’t so much an issue on a ferry as it is on a plane or train — you tend to find a good array of restaurants and food services on a ferry. the quality isn’t so much an issue as the price, with many advocating taking your own food with you to avoid the ever-present expense of travel-based food. by sky: airline food we’re finally addressing the elephant in the room. or, indeed, the questionable meat floating in a generic gravy waiting to be poked at with the disposable cutlery provided. in a world where we can talk face-to-face with people halfway across the planet with our iphones, where we can tell our boilers to spark up and heat our homes before we get home from work, why can’t we cook a decent meal in the sky? we’ve not only sent men to the moon, we presumably fed them on the way there and back. how hard can it really be? in defence of airline food, the number of meals required in a tiny space must be a challenge. the largest independent airline food provider makes 685,000 meals every day, says the guardian, giving a whole new meaning to ‘fast food’. it’s not that airlines can’t serve pomegranate-glazed lamb or chilled prawns with an aioli tarragon sauce. in fact, back in the 1950s, before the dawn of flight classes, meals were ridiculously flashy, with charcuteries featuring in the aisles of the then-smaller planes. but then it occurred to airline businesses that they could split flight classes and offer this lovely grub to the first class flyers, and less-expensive food (or none at all) to economy class. even with technology like sous-vide allowing for food to be vacuum-sealed and slow-cooked to keep it tasty also when cooked in the air, technological advancements in airline food don’t often filter down to economy class plates. it boils down to selling. the vast variation between economy class food and first class is designed to encourage people to want to pay more and upgrade their seat. for those with frequent flyer points, many choose to spend their points on seat upgrades rather than a free ticket, and as business insider notes, a flight costs an airline more than fancy food does. the truth has been revealed…airline food isn’t awful. you just need to pay a lot more to get a ticket for a spacious seat and a larger drink than those tiny cans of single-mouthful colas. sources: https://www.wired.co.uk/article/best-airline-food-airplane-gate-gourmet https://www.cuisinesolutions.com/about-sous-vide/ http://uk.businessinsider.com/why-airplane-food-is-getting-better-2016-1?r=us&ir=t/#for-the-rest-of-us-sitting-in-the-economy-cabin-our-trays-still-look-like-a-middle-school-lunch–if-were-even-offered-a-lunch-at-all-16 https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/wordofmouth/2011/jul/04/airline-food-flights-of-fancy https://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/comment/first-class-train-carriages-in-the-uk/ https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/wordofmouth/2011/jul/11/food-to-rail-against https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2017/may/20/derided-british-rail-sandwich-privatisation-catering-public-ownership-chiltern-railways https://thetab.com/uk/2017/11/23/i-tried-to-eat-and-drink-my-way-into-making-a-profit-from-a-first-class-train-ticket-53876 https://totstotravel.co.uk/blog/the-complete-guide-of-essential-tips-for-travelling-on-ferries-with-kids/ https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/661355/final-sea-passenger-statistics-2016.pdf *collaborative feature post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok