search input field. ims facebook ims instagram ims twitter ims youtube news contact us donate toggle open the search bar. about mission and values diversity and inclusion board of directors annual report ims history faqs about ims virtual tours tour our centers 1976–1986 1986–1996 1996-2006 2006–present retreats your ims retreat—what to expect schedules retreat center 2020 forest refuge 2020 retreat center dana (generosity) fees financial assistance self retreats ce credits fellowships available forest refuge dana (generosity) fees financial assistance guidelines application process work retreats retreat center forest refuge getting here food and accommodations faqs about retreats pay your balance teachers retreat center teachers 2020 forest refuge teachers 2020 teacher training program our new teacher village teacher code of ethics generosity teacher support ims support one-time gift monthly giving financial assistance meal dana planned giving stock transfers gift certificates learn benefits of meditation interested in a retreat? testimonials get involved staff life benefits code of conduct sangha program openings job application volunteering day-to-day special retreats month-long volunteer program resources audio ride share recipes reading list glossary insight meditation centers and communities diversity resources outside resources local meditation group search input field. toggle navigation menu. toggle open the search bar. about mission and values diversity and inclusion board of directors annual report ims history faqs about ims virtual tours tour our centers 1976–1986 1986–1996 1996-2006 2006–present retreats your ims retreat—what to expect schedules retreat center 2020 forest refuge 2020 retreat center dana (generosity) fees financial assistance self retreats ce credits fellowships available forest refuge dana (generosity) fees financial assistance guidelines application process work retreats retreat center forest refuge getting here food and accommodations faqs about retreats pay your balance teachers retreat center teachers 2020 forest refuge teachers 2020 teacher training program our new teacher village teacher code of ethics generosity teacher support ims support one-time gift monthly giving financial assistance meal dana planned giving stock transfers gift certificates learn benefits of meditation interested in a retreat? testimonials get involved staff life benefits code of conduct sangha program openings job application volunteering day-to-day special retreats month-long volunteer program resources audio ride share recipes reading list glossary insight meditation centers and communities diversity resources outside resources local meditation group news contact us donate ims facebook ims instagram ims twitter ims youtube home practice resources: daily online reflections and meditations read more scroll to content ims update: covid-19 read more scroll to content a supportive refuge for cultivating tranquility, wisdom and compassion read more scroll to content am i ready for the forest refuge? q&a with oren jay sofer read more scroll to content generosity as spiritual practice: a q&a with sharon salzberg & joseph goldstein read more scroll to content announcing our annual bulletin! read more scroll to content reserving retreat spaces for people of color read more scroll to content funding available for people of color and 18-32 year olds in 2020 read more scroll to content our schedules retreat center open registration is still open for this retreat! september 08 - september 13, 2020 freedom & ease of being: a meditation retreat for our lgbtqai+ community - lgbtqai teachers pascal auclair anushka fernandopulle open registration is still open for this retreat! october 27 - december 08, 2020 three-month retreat - part 2 - pt2 teachers rebecca bradshaw andrea fella bhante buddharakkhita brian lesage wait list wait lists often move quickly, so consider registering even if a retreat is full! december 11 - december 16, 2020 heartfelt wisdom: insight meditation retreat - pa teachers pascal auclair devin berry devon hase view all at retreat center forest refuge august 1 - august 31 caroline jones & annie nugent teachers caroline jones annie nugent october 1 - october 31 caroline jones & jaya rudgard teachers caroline jones jaya rudgard november 1 - november 30 caroline jones & jill shepherd teachers caroline jones jill shepherd view all at forest refuge your retreat – what to expect learn more dharma talks and meditations talks on the practice of meditation are a vital aspect of the ims retreat experience and help to bring alive the buddha’s teachings of freedom. at the retreat center, teachers offer talks on a daily basis. at the forest refuge, talks usually take place twice a week. meet our teachers view all the spirit of generosity guides all aspects of ims’s vision and operations generosity is the first of the ten parami, or qualities of character, that the buddha taught his students to cultivate. the practice of generosity develops lovingkindness and compassion, deepens awareness of our interconnectedness and encourages non-attachment. donate now teacher support scholarships join our mailing list this form needs javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. sign up here instead support our teachers and our centers donate now thank you for your kindness! 1230 pleasant street, barre ma 01005 retreat center: 978-355-4378 forest refuge: 978-355-2063 helpful links benefits of meditation current news faqs about ims food and accommodations glossary job openings pay your balance recipes retreat center fees retreat center schedule 2020 ride share teacher talks and meditations your retreat barre center for buddhist studies follow us: ims facebook ims instagram ims twitter ims youtube about retreats teachers generosity learn get involved resources copyright © 2020 insight meditation society | privacy policy | designed by eri design this website uses cookies to improve your experience. we'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. view privacy policysettingsaccept privacy & cookies policy privacy overview this website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. we also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. these cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. you also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. but opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. privacy overview this website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. we also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. these cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. you also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. but opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. necessary always enabled necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. this category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. these cookies do not store any personal information. non-necessary non-necessary any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. it is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.