skip to content reliable reporting. the right opinion. subscribe welcome sign in sign in today's e-edition subscribe sign out today's e-edition my account subscribe news politics national world security business & economy d.c. local media spotlight faith & family inside politics inside the beltway waste, fraud & abuse inside the ring culture entertainment technology obituaries just the headlines trump central campaign 2020 photo galleries dive deeper policy energy & environment banking & finance health care reform second amendment immigration reform homeland & cybersecurity aerospace & defense taxes & budget law enforcement & intelligence transportation & infrastructure commentary commentary main editorials letters pruden on politics charles hurt david keene tammy bruce ralph z. hallow cal thomas clifford d. may cheryl k. chumley joseph curl everett piper daniel n. hoffman robert knight rapid reactions tim constantine books cartoons u.s.-russia crosstalk sports sports main redskins football baseball basketball ncaa thom loverro tennis golf hockey soccer horse racing nascar & racing special reports special reports main coronavirus updates losing our religion #greaterkarachi new africa rolling thunder xxxii qatar free iran rally 2019 energy 2019 infrastructure 2019 podcasts podcasts main front page podcast politically unstable campaign 2020 the right opinion bold & blunt games games main play sudoku crossword puzzle word search quizzes subscribe sign in trending: donald trump nfl china new york new york city washington iran senate nba andrew cuomo home news inside the beltway inside the beltway related articles trump trounces the media in public approval by jennifer harper - the washington times it looks like president trump is winning the public approval war out there, no matter how much bad press he receives during the coronavirus crisis. the media, in fact, is 16 percentage points below mr. trump according to a wide ranging gallup poll gauging public reaction to the assorted responses to the pandemic. shares it could happen: biden/cuomo 2020 by jennifer harper - the washington times few can miss the fiery presence of new york gov. andrew cuomo as he navigates the coronavirus crisis in the empire state. mr. cuomo -- son of previous new york governor mario cuomo and brother of cnn host christopher cuomo ---- has been a relentless presence in the news media as he explains worst case scenarios to the public. some say the white house could be in his future. shares trump, dr. anthony fauci reject media rumors of 'rift' between them by jennifer harper - the washington times negative narratives about president trump seem to be getting more inventive. his many foes in the news media are on the prowl for new ways to undermine both mr. trump's presidency and his ceaseless efforts to counter the coronavirus. some news organizations have gone so far as to minimize or downplay their own opinion polls which reveal that americans approve of the job mr. trump and his administration are doing to counter the pandemic. shares 'exploiting an emergency': americans wake up to democrats' cunning agenda by jennifer harper - the washington times a pair of nationally trending social media hashtags tells the story: #pelosihatesamerica and #democratsaredestroyingamerica were very popular following the democratic party's successful push to block a gop-led economic coronavirus stimulus package and replace it with its own 1,400-page version. a multitude of tweets and countermessages followed. shares critics demand full media blackout of trump's coronavirus briefings by jennifer harper - the washington times it is almost unthinkable in a national emergency. journalists and commentators are now calling for a complete media blackout of president trump's live briefings on the coronavirus pandemic, concerned that these daily tv events promote misinformation of have turned into a trump "rally." shares 'democrat dark money' deployed against trump by jennifer harper - the washington times it's not just the liberal news media which is criticizing president trump and his administration. democratic nonprofits and political action committees are joining the fray, politicizing the coronavirus despite nationwide unease over the pandemic. shares coronavirus or not: voter approval of trump's economic performance persists by jennifer harper - the washington times multiple news organizations continue to peddle the convenient narrative that the public is turning against president trump as the stock market plummets. a major pollster says otherwise. shares doctor's orders: 'pray during a crisis' by jennifer harper - the washington times while fierce new health protocols settle in with the general public during the coronavirus crisis, an esteemed physician also has a ready prescription for one and all. shares gravitas: mike pence earns new respect from the media by jennifer harper - the washington times as chief of the trump administration's coronavirus task force, vice president mike pence has upped his profile plenty on the public radar. mr. pence is also getting good reviews. shares charlie daniels offers grim 'lesson' on china by jennifer harper - the washington times country music icon charlie daniels is plenty riled after leaning that china is the source for many antibiotics, generic medications and prescription drugs vital to americans — a situation now in sharp focus following the coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent national emergency. shares president trump fans keep the faith and soldier on, virus or not by jennifer harper - the washington times one resolute group of trump fans are forging ahead with their campaign outreach even as public events all over the nation are being canceled due to concern about the coronavirus. that group is the walkaway campaign, a high-volume, high-style grassroots organization which encourages disgruntled and disenchanted democrats to walk away from the democratic party and support president trump. shares coronavirus jitters: the next democratic debate has no audience by jennifer harper - the washington times it was inevitable. along with inspiring the entire nation to wash their hands a lot, the coronavirus is influencing official election activities. the next democratic presidential debate will be staged with no live audience to cheer and jeer throughout the bout. such interactions have long been a prime driver of drama and contention in these televised events. shares new narrative: media pushes coronavirus as president trump's downfall by jennifer harper - the washington times alarmed americans are overdosing on ramped-up news coverage about the evolving coronavirus issue. the press is heavy on cliffhangers and speculative "what-if" stories. it also has politicized the situation, aiming all it's got against president trump and his administration. shares not done: hillary still flirts with a white house run by jennifer harper - the washington times there has been chatter that former presidential hopeful hillary clinton is a potential running mate. now there's talk that she could be tapped as a presidential candidate. again. the democratic party may have some thinking to do. shares hollywood deploys coronavirus against trump by jennifer harper - the washington times they've got showmanship working for them, and fame. a growing cast of hollywood liberals are using alarming news about coronavirus to criticize president trump and his administration. shares republicans least alarmed by coronavirus, see it as 'scare tactic' by jennifer harper - the washington times republicans and conservatives appear to be the least worried of all about the coronavirus, even as alarming news coverage amplifies public uncertainly about treatments, cures, risks and preventative behaviors. shares joe frenzy: media ready to shine for biden by jennifer harper - the washington times it is no surprise that the news media is now ready to shine the light of approval and electability upon democratic presidential hopeful joseph r. biden, brimming with surprise and delight as he meanders toward the white house nomination. the uneven trajectory of the 2020 election may not be to the liking of the entire left-leaning press at the moment, but they are battening down the hatches and taking on the role of kingmaker, shaping mr. biden's public persona and buffing up his image as an experienced down-to-earth optimist with street smarts. or something like that. shares among the biden prospects: 'joebama 2020' by jennifer harper - the washington times the prospect that democratic presidential hopeful and former vice president joseph r. biden would name former president barack obama or former first lady michelle obama as his running mate has been fascinating people for some time. that's three "former" obama administration references to consider, but read on. shares not super tuesday? election officials say coronavirus fear could affect voter turnout by jennifer harper - the washington times for much of the public, the coronavirus is associated with face masks, white-suited hazard workers, alarming media reports and a running count of those who have been sickened or died. the virus appears to be spreading to the voting booth. election officials now worry that the fear of virus could affect voter turnout on super tuesday when polls in 14 states and one territory open for business. shares charlie kirk identifies the maga doctrine by jennifer harper - the washington times so what's the matter with making america great again — and keeping it that way? don't get nervous about the positive power of "nationalism" advises charlie kirk, founder of the conservative youth group turning point usa, and author of the new book "the maga doctrine: the only ideas that will win the future." shares previous 1 2 3 next follow us search search keyword: sign up for our daily newsletters breaking news alerts enter your email address: manage newsletters most popular george valentine, aide to d.c. mayor, dies from coronavirus gavin newsom: 4 banks to suspend mortgage payments trump, christians ripped in nyts op-ed: 'the road to coronavirus hell was paved by evangelicals' trump forces gm to accept federal contracts for ventilators, citing defense production act the check is almost in the mail for more than 120 million taxpayers trump signs $2 trillion economic plan to rush aid to businesses, workers hurt by coronavirus crisis what good are constitutional rights if they are violated when americans get sick? house passes $2 trillion coronavirus aide package on voice vote hillary clinton uses grim coronavirus stats as fodder for anti-trump jokes: 'america first' amazon investigates video showing delivery person spitting on package commentary tim constantine airlines should heed a parable from jesus as they seek mercy at the expense of taxpayers charles hurt joe biden is barack obama without the fake greek columns daniel n. hoffman democratic taiwan rises to virus challenge despite beijing’s hostility scott walker tested by wars, storms and terrorists, america always survives victor davis hanson beating covid-19 pandemic depends on trump’s confidence, cunning and wisdom newsletters breaking news tammy bruce daily jennifer harper weekly bill gertz today's opinion front page podcast charles hurt terms of use / privacy policy / manage newsletters find us on facebook the washington times opinion local sports find us on twitter the washington times opinion local sports home news politics national world security business & economy d.c. local media spotlight faith & family inside politics inside the beltway waste, fraud & abuse inside the ring culture entertainment technology obituaries just the headlines trump central campaign 2020 photo galleries dive deeper policy energy & environment banking & finance health care reform second amendment immigration reform homeland & cybersecurity aerospace & defense taxes & budget law enforcement & intelligence transportation & infrastructure specials commentary commentary main editorials letters pruden on politics charles hurt david keene tammy bruce ralph z. hallow cal thomas clifford d. may cheryl k. chumley joseph curl everett piper daniel n. hoffman robert knight rapid reactions tim constantine books cartoons u.s.-russia crosstalk sports sports main redskins football baseball basketball ncaa thom loverro tennis golf hockey soccer horse racing nascar & racing special reports special reports main coronavirus updates losing our religion #greaterkarachi new africa rolling thunder xxxii qatar free iran rally 2019 energy 2019 infrastructure 2019 subscribe classifieds e-edition customer service careers terms privacy rss advertise faq about contact all site contents © copyright 2020 the washington times, llc | 3600 new york avenue ne | washington, dc 20002 | 202-636-3000