video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map inspiration productivity want to boost your team's productivity? consider creating a workplace outside. with the help of a few chairs and tables in your office's backyard, you'll soon find your employees will feel refreshed, energized and full of great ideas. entrepreneur deals | 3 min read in response to broadway suspending shows, lin-manuel miranda releases unheard 'hamilton' track the hamilton creator revealed a demo of a lost song in an effort to boost spirits in the face of coronavirus. entrepreneur staff | 2 min read 50 inspirational quotes to motivate you great quotes can be inspirational and motivational. they can guide your life, love and career. here are 50 of the best. travis bradberry | 6 min read 5 words to try on for women's history month little words project makes jewelry that helps women express themselves and encourage each other. founder adriana carrig recommends five words to wear now. frances dodds | 3 min read 21 success tips for young and aspiring entrepreneurs follow these wise words from inspirational business leaders to become the entrepreneur you were meant to be. sujan patel | 5 min read more from this topic inspiration rudy ruettiger explains how every underdog has their day the motivational speaker and inspiration for the film 'rudy' talks about being bold enough to chase your dreams and knowing the right time to quit. david meltzer | 1 min read how the founder of makers is inspiring change around the globe jessica abo sits down with dyllan mcgee to discuss her new documentary and tips to get out of a creative funk. jessica abo | 1 min read quotes 8 kobe quotes that will challenge your views on competition, leadership and death the 18-time all-star will be missed this weekend, but his words and wisdom are as relevant as ever. entrepreneur staff | 3 min read public speaking how to dazzle your audience in the first 7 seconds of your speech in the moment after you've been introduced but before you begin to speak, anticipation builds. here's how to use it to command a room. neil gordon | 5 min read inspirational quotes 20 leadership quotes from the world's most influential leaders from steve jobs to thomas jefferson, these quotes will inspire you to become a better leader. rose leadem | 4 min read inspirational quotes 16 powerful quotes to unlock change in the new year change starts with just a thought. check out these quotes from inspiring change makers throughout history. carolyn sun | 4 min read quotes 40 inspirational entrepreneurial quotes whatever you've succeeded at or failed trying, somebody you respect said has something worth listening to on the topic. john rampton | 8 min read inspirational quotes 37 quotes on motivation from the world's most influential leaders motivation is the backbone of success. rose leadem | 6 min read lilly singh conquered youtube -- now she's taking on hollywood with a new gig as one of nbc's late-night talk show hosts, the comedian and content creator is ready to tackle traditional media. stephanie schomer | 9 min read success how to turn last year's lemons into lemonade and achieve success in the new year use setbacks as learning tools to achieve success in 2020. eyal lifshitz | 6 min read listen in to personal stories from business leaders who overcame struggles to find success. 1 2 3 4 ... 85 company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account