menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies inspirational inspirational it’s not okay to break others just because you’re broken rania naim some blessings are disguised as losses rania naim sponsored please — just be kind to yourself bianca sparacino let today be the day you stop lying to yourself eileen lamb 44 one-sentence pep talks to give yourself when doubt creeps in megan minutillo this is what you deserve from someone kirstie devine when your depression comes back after leaving for awhile jacqueline whitney latest inspirational articles i hope you know that you will find yourself again isabella housel “ i hope you know that you can love again, and i hope you know that you deserve good love. may these times teach us what truly matters rania naim “ may these times give us the push we needed to get things off our chests or apologize or express how we’re really feeling. it’s not up to you to tell me how to heal anonymous “ it’s not up to you, my family, or my friends to tell me how to heal – and i am saying this without the smallest trace of malice or passive-aggressiveness. let us remember what it is to be human again francesca psaila “ as we let in so much overwhelmingness, let us always remember to come back to ourselves. the thing about unbelonging sumaiyyah patel “ i don’t get attached to places; i get attached to people. this is me surrendering to the life i am meant to live leena sanders “ this is me surrendering to the life i am meant to live. this isn’t me giving up my power, this is me proclaiming my power. if you want good things in life, you have to believe that you deserve them rania naim “ you deserve a life that makes you look forward to waking up every morning. there is no such thing as falling behind, there is not just one way your life can unfold brianna wiest “ when we are young, and before we really have a sense of autonomy, our lives are governed by a process, a specific order. just because it ended doesn’t mean it didn’t matter emily heron “ don’t think that any relationship was a waste of time. give yourself permission to play erika rakas “ this affects us in every aspect of our life: work, relationships, parenting, and so on. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.