skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search inspiration home » inspiration 45 creative & easy to customize free error page templates 2020 february 28, 2020 girish karthik inspiration, website templates 0 comments the five most common website errors you get are 400 for the bad request, 401 for unauthorized, 403 for forbidden error, the most common 404 for page not found and 500 for internal server error. among all these common error… read more→ 29 best easy to use free 404 error page templates 2020 february 28, 2020 girish karthik inspiration, website templates 1 comment most of the premium website templates and some best website templates provide a separate 404 error page templates along with their package. if you are not contented with the default 404 error page templates you can make use of these… read more→ 22 best website menu templates for creative sites (bootstrap) 2020 february 27, 2020 girish karthik inspiration, snippets, website templates 1 comment website menu determines the overall website user experience score. it is one of the few important factors that determine the seo score of the website indirectly. the main factors which you must consider while designing the website menu are; it… read more→ 20 best on trend free inquiry form templates for websites 2020 february 27, 2020 girish karthik inspiration, website templates 0 comments inquiry forms act as a bridge between you and your customers. no matter how much keen you are in making your product user-friendly, detailed clear cut documentation and the website content you make to explain your services, still we might… read more→ 47 best free bootstrap wizards to help developer start projects easily from scratch february 22, 2020 girish karthik inspiration, website templates 8 comments wizards help you to make a sequel of interaction more user-friendly and also visually appealing for the users. you might have experienced lots of wizards when you sign up into a mobile application or during the welcome tour of an… read more→ 54 free html5 and css3 login forms for your website 2020 february 20, 2020 aigars silkalns inspiration, website templates 47 comments login forms are everywhere on the web. but now all login forms designs are beautiful and have good ui that's why we decide to create these logins form template designs and share them for free. are you using social networks?… read more→ lovely valentine’s day assets for creative designs february 4, 2020 lana miro inspiration 0 comments valentine’s day is right around the corner and that means it’s about time to start stocking up on those cards! spreading love is one simple way of making the world around us just a little bit better. my way of… read more→ 18 best gym websites design inspiration 2020 january 16, 2020 colorlib inspiration, website design 0 comments being physically and mentally fit is necessary for an individual to live a happy, longer life. typically, exercise is one of the best ways to keep a person healthy. hence, no matter how busy you are, it’s always best to… read more→ 17 best news website design for inspiration 2020 january 15, 2020 colorlib inspiration 0 comments news is meant to inform, educate, guide and even entertain. as it carries information about politics, economy, business, sports, trade, commerce and other interesting topics it has become a great part of society. hence, news plays a vital role as… read more→ 17+ amazing christmas graphics to inspire you december 23, 2019 lana miro inspiration 0 comments the holiday season is upon us, which means many designers are neck-deep in christmas design projects. be careful though, using the same old resources and ideas year after year can make your work feel stagnant and out of date. so… read more→ fonts are king or what is wrong with your content december 23, 2019 lana miro inspiration 0 comments content is king. you’ve surely heard this fundamental truth a lot of times. for this reason, you are investing a huge budget in content writing for your digital project. but nothing works. no visitors, no top ranking, no roi… in… read more→ 25+ business powerpoint & keynote templates to create an effective presentation december 23, 2019 lana miro inspiration 0 comments presentation is one of the most effective means to deliver a certain message to the audience. it’s impossible to imagine a seminar or a conference without presentations. not to mention a business meeting. entrepreneurs use them to persuade the target… read more→ how to make a worthy presentation: 26 creative powerpoint & keynote templates december 19, 2019 lana miro inspiration 0 comments “people who know about what they are talking don’t need powerpoint.” let me disagree with steve job’s statement. creating a meaningful presentation will work on your business project. it will make the audience to focus on the subject of your… read more→ 30 best free postcard mockups in psd 2019 december 17, 2019 rokr inspiration, mockups 0 comments we compiled a collection of the best free postcard mockups that are quick and effortless to edit in photoshop. thanks to smart object layers, you can swiftly add your designs and have a professional presentation ready in close to no… read more→ 40 free computer mockups and templates 2019 december 6, 2019 rokr inspiration, mockups 0 comments a comprehensive list of computer mockups starting from a modern imac pro all way back to apple lisa computer and anything in-between. whoever out there is looking for professional and sophisticated free computer mockups, you sure did come to the… read more→ popular alternatives to wordpress content management system (cms) 2019 december 6, 2019 vishnu inspiration 7 comments wordpress as a content management system has a great many advantages going for it. it is versatile, customizable and is compatible with thousands of themes and plugins. it has a searchable database and a vast community that supports it. wordpress… read more→ page 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 … page 9 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×