products pricing about webinars start your free trial log in resources listen to breaking brand — our new podcast! 🎧 open search form listen to breaking brand — our new podcast! 🎧 may we suggest... buffer news case studies design news and trends online marketing opinion pinterest social media marketing the science of social media instagram stories instagram stories the best instagram stories of 2019 instagram stories was one of the most dynamic social media channels in 2019. so much happened with stories — from new developments with the product... read more instagram stories how to schedule instagram stories since the feature was introduced in august 2016, stories have completely changed how people, and brands use instagram. more than 500 million instagrammers use stories... read more instagram 8 fun things to try on instagram you probably haven’t thought of before come take a deep dive into instagram marketing with a look at eight little-known features that you can try today -- stickers, stories, and more. read more instagram how tentree took over instagram: behind a record-breaking social media campaign for earth week 2019 — april 22nd to 26th — canadian clothing brand, tentree, created one of the most-liked posts in instagram history, helping the... read more advertising does vertical video make a difference? we spent $6,000 on tests to find out there has been much discussion recently on industry-leading publications about the effectiveness of video on social media. for example, did you know that video posts... read more case studies how blenders eyewear creates profitable instagram ad campaigns this post is part of our instagram marketing strategy series. the series provides you with actionable insights and lessons on how businesses are using instagram.... read more case studies how bustle ignited engagement and created new revenue streams using instagram stories this post is part of our instagram marketing strategy series. the series provides you with actionable insights and lessons on how businesses are using instagram.... read more case studies the secret to instagram success: square’s community curation strategy this post is part of our instagram marketing strategy series. the series provides you with actionable insights and lessons on how businesses are using instagram.... read more advertising how to create facebook and instagram stories ads that get you results this post is part of our instagram marketing strategy series. the series provides you with actionable insights and lessons on how businesses are using instagram.... read more case studies how to sell on instagram: a stories strategy that’s generated ‘hundreds of thousands’ in sales kettlebell kings generates 400-600 new leads per week from social media, with half of those leads coming directly from instagram. and ‘hundreds of thousands of... read more instagram how instagram helps callie’s hot little biscuit to serve over 250,000 customers per year this post is part of our instagram marketing strategy series. the series provides you with actionable insights and lessons on how businesses are using instagram.... read more posts navigation 1 2 next about us our team feedback contact us tweet @ us press faq guides & tutorials case studies webinars what is social media marketing? the pro plan buffer for business buffer for nonprofits pricing pablo image creator iphone & ipad app android app browser extension apps & extras © 2020 buffer inc. we're hiring hi there, we use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience and to analyze site traffic. by continuing to use our website, you consent to the use of these cookies. learn more. got it