engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks instacart workers will strike over lack of covid-19 protections latest in business ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 19m ago view the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here 1h ago view google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks 1h ago view instacart workers will strike over lack of covid-19 protections 2h ago view image credit: instacart workers will strike over lack of covid-19 protections they're requesting supplies like hand sanitizer and hazard pay. christine fisher, @cfisherwrites 2h ago comments 137 shares share tweet share sponsored links frederic j. brown via getty images fed up with the company's response to the coronavirus, instacart workers announced today that they'll go on strike beginning monday. they will not return to work until their demands are met, instacart shoppers and the gig workers collective wrote in a blog post. their dissent is not uncommon. it's reflective of growing dissatisfaction among employees, especially gig workers, who must continue working in public settings while corporate employees work from the safety of their homes. among their demands, instacart shoppers are requesting protective supplies like hand sanitizer and disinfectant wipes. they're also asking for hazard pay -- an additional $5 per order -- and an extension of pay for workers impacted by covid-19. the deadline to qualify for those benefits was originally april 8th, but the company has pushed that back through may 8th. today, instacart also announced bonuses, based on the numbers of hours worked and ranging from $25 to $200. "instacart has still not provided essential protections to shoppers on the front lines that could prevent them from becoming carriers, falling ill themselves, or worse," shoppers wrote. "...they are profiting astronomically off of us literally risking our lives, all while refusing to provide us with effective protection, meaningful pay, and meaningful benefits." instacart, like uber and lyft, has said it will provide workers who contract covid-19 or are forced to quarantine with two weeks of pay. it has also introduced no-contact deliveries. but workers say this is not enough. at the same time, the company is struggling to keep up with demand, and earlier this week it said it will hire an additional 300,000 "full-service" contractors. in this article: benefits, business, coronavirus, covid-19, demands, employees, gig economy, gig workers, gig workers collective, instacart, medicine, protection, services, strike, thebuyersguide all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments 137 shares share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr