australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video u.s. news 03/27/2020 12:05 edt | updated 1 hour ago instacart gig workers threaten to strike, demand hazard pay and sick leave a lead organizer for the planned monday walkout says the grocery delivery company isn't taking care of workers on the front lines of the coronavirus pandemic. by jenna amatulli, huffpost us gig workers for online grocery delivery service instacart are planning a nationwide strike, saying the company has failed to provide them with safety essentials and paid sick leave as they work on the front lines of the coronavirus pandemic. workers told motherboard that, starting monday, they will refuse to accept orders until instacart meets their demands. they said they’re seeking $5 in additional hazard pay for each order, free safety provisions including hand sanitizer, disinfectant wipes and soap, and paid sick leave for workers with preexisting conditions who have been advised not to work by their doctors. vanessa bain, a california-based gig worker for instacart and a lead organizer of the strike, told huffpost, “sadly instacart’s lack of engagement is the norm.” she continued: our aim is to ensure public safety, and the safety of our shoppers and customers. instacart has refused to act, so we must. i am [hopeful] that other gig workers will mobilize around demands to protect workers as well, and ultimately that health and safety are prioritized above profit. workers from the gig workers collective advocacy group told huffpost in a statement that “instacart has had several weeks to improve the safety conditions for workers.” “they’ve ignored our requests, so an emergency walk off is our only option. our lives are on the line at this point, and we cannot continue to work until our demands are met,” the statement said. after initial publication of this story, instacart told huffpost in a statement that “we absolutely respect the rights of shoppers to provide us feedback and voice their concerns.” “our goal is to offer a safe and flexible earnings opportunity to shoppers, while also proactively taking the appropriate precautionary measures to operate safely,” the company said. the company, which currently offers up to 14 days of pay for any hourly employee or full-service shopper who is diagnosed with covid-19 or placed in individual mandatory isolation or quarantine, also said it is “extending this assistance for another 30 days — through may 8, 2020 — to ensure our community continues to be supported during this rapidly evolving situation.” instacart also said it will be “introducing a bonus payment for in-store shoppers, shift leads, and site managers” that will be “based on the number of hours worked from march 15 through april 15 and will range from $25 to $200, to further support this community during this time.” still, the company did not acknowledge the other demands of the workers who are planning to strike. sopa images via getty images instacart, which says it is the largest grocery delivery network in north america, announced earlier this week that it would be hiring 300,000 additional full-service shoppers across the continent in the next three months given surging demand in the u.s. and canada. a spokesperson previously told huffpost that in the last few weeks, instacart has “seen the highest customer demand in company history” and is currently focusing on the busiest states, including california, new york, texas, florida, illinois, pennsylvania, virginia, new jersey, georgia and ohio. the demand for online grocery delivery services has skyrocketed as people stay indoors in an effort to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. meeting that demand and keeping employees safe (and paid) has proven to be a struggle for many companies during this crisis. while amazon fresh says it’s hiring 100,000 more workers across the u.s. to get customers groceries quickly, employees describe being terrified of going to work. “we’re all freaked out,” monica moody, who works at an amazon warehouse in north carolina, said on a call reported by huffpost on thursday. “amazon is making us choose between coming to work or risk losing pay.” instacart was previously embroiled in a controversy over its treatment of gig workers in fall 2019. after shoppers for the site went on strike in an effort to demand that the company give them a default tip amount of 10% per order, the company reportedly eliminated an existing perk, a $3 bonus for each five-star rating they received from customers, mere days after the strike, according to eater. a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic trump rejects new york’s desperate plea for ventilators what you need to know about at-home coronavirus test kits how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off avoiding going to the store? here’s how to order groceries online. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction jenna amatulli reporter, huffpost more: coronavirus covid-19 labor strikes instacart trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too coronavirus in condos: what residents should know about covid-19 subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.