skip to content solutions experience science techbook social studies techbook math techbook stem professional development featured programs immersive coding partner success insights success stories research partner success team community den community virtual field trips events blog corporate & nonprofits corporate education partnerships become a corporate partner request corporate scholarships stem careers coalition open search login contact us open menu close menu contact us login solutions experience science techbook social studies techbook math techbook stem professional development featured programs immersive coding partner success insights success stories research partner success team community den community virtual field trips events blog corporate & nonprofits corporate education partnerships become a corporate partner request corporate scholarships stem careers coalition experience experience a world of instructional possibilities explore the experience close modal get ready for a new experience introducing discovery education experience, a simple-to-use k-12 learning platform that combines dynamic curated curriculum resources with on-demand teaching strategies, personalized for your needs as an educator. this collection of real world educational content brings excitement and relevancy to the topics you teach, so all students have opportunities to unlock their true potential. winner of best re-invention of a classic legacy technology see how experience can make an impact in your district request access experience the wonder curated one of kind content and experiences unlock the interests of every student with a variety of highly engaging teaching channels from partners like mythbusters, nba, reuters, shark week, mlb and ford’s theatre that are available in discovery education experience. this ever-growing collection offers standards-aligned, multimodal teaching resources that help educators differentiate and that mirrors the unique interests of students, helping them make relevant and lasting connections between the subjects they’re learning and their everyday lives. experience the ease teaching channels personalized to your interests discovery education experience offers personalization functionality, so your dashboard will be populated with curated content channels and teacher resources that support efficient lesson planning. select preferences and interests to build custom channels that support your subjects and students, all in one easy-to-use interface. experience the support professional learning & teaching strategies on demand discovery education experience offers research-based instructional strategies, step-by-step guides, interactive courses and one of the strongest professional networks for educators in the world - all at your convenience and comfort level. research-based teaching strategies are aligned to mcrel international’s 6-phase model of learning and embedded for ease-of-use. the professional learning center helps you integrate digital more powerfully with a variety of rich teacher resources like step-by-step guides, interactive courses and easy-to-use strategies. trusted by educators for over a decade, the den community offers one of the strongest professional networks for educators in the world. experience the inspiration studio: one tool to design, collaborate & assign studio is a space where teachers can design and assign highly engaging lesson activities and students can create boards and demonstrate what they know. based on popular topics in math, science, social studies, ela, visual and performing arts, and health, grab-and-go lesson activities combine the best discovery education content with effective teaching strategies you love—all in a flexible format you can modify to make your own or assign as-is. want to dive deeper? read our white paper if the goal of k-12 education is to help every student meet rigorous learning expectations, the classroom experience should support each child’s learning process, not just the normative middle. in this research report, learn the use cases for differentiated instruction and personalized learning, and how these are helping to narrow opportunity gaps in education. get started loading&#8230; close modal engage and differentiate like never before educators just participated in an unveiling of discovery education experience, an all-new k-12 learning platform that combines dynamic curated curriculum resources with on-demand teaching strategies, personalized for the educator. the excitement is palpable. see why they’re saying “it’s a game changer.” join more than 50% of us districts aimed at challenging the status quo. request access 1-800-323-9084 company curriculum team corporate underwriting careers news events tools puzzlemaker webmath help contact us technical requirements faqs twitter facebook instagram linkedin pinterest youtube terms of use privacy policy sitemap copyright © 2020 discovery education. all rights reserved.