news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals how-to instagram’s new co-watching feature lets you browse posts with friends – here’s how to use it the feature is now rolling out to users everywhere. by joe rice-jones march 25, 2020 image: knowtechie instagram has a new feature that lets you be social while still social distancing. co-watching lets you pull people into a group video chat, then spill tea over whatever posts you’ve been browsing through your own feeds. think of it as a work water-cooler chat, without the water-cooler. now, you don’t have to go out to talk about the latest trends, as you can use instagram direct to video chat and share interesting posts from your timelines. the only question i have is why instagram didn’t do this sooner? the feature is now rolling out to users everywhere. here’s how to use it: open your instagram app tap on the paper plane icon on the top right to get into instagram direct tap the video camera icon to start a video chat once the chat starts, tap on the photo icon on the bottom to see all recently liked, saved, and instagram recommendations from your feed whichever post you select will appear for everyone in the chat you can also share private posts, but only if everyone in the chat could see it normally enjoy the experience of scrolling your endless feeds, now with friends. this is going to be a huge feature for instagram, not just now but going forward as well. what do you think? plan on using this new feature on the social network? let us know down below in the comments or carry the discussion over to our twitter or facebook. editors’ recommendations: it looks like instagram is working on its own version of self-destructing messages facebook, twitter shut down a troll farm in africa linked to russian interference campaigns facebook will soon let you share your facebook stories to instagram the easiest way to upload photos to instagram from a mac related topicscowatchinghow-toinstagramnewssocial joe rice-jones maker, meme-r and unabashed geek. hardware guy here at knowtechie, if it runs on electricity (or even if it doesn't) i probably have one around here somewhere. my hobbies include photography, animation and hoarding reddit gold. comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold time to fire up the browser version of tinder. how to change your zoom background on desktop and mobile spice up your next meeting with a new background. how to enable alexa devices to play radio stations alexa gets even more useful. how to join a zoom meeting directly from your web browser of course, zoom tries to hide the feature. google translate’s real-time transcription feature is now live for android – here’s how to use it this could prove extremely helpful. how to turn on dark mode for facebook on desktop dark mode is nice, but the new layout is "meh" at best. the easiest way to upload photos to instagram from a mac i wish i had discovered this ages ago. twitter now lets you turn lists into multiple timelines – here’s how to use it take back control of your twitter feed. how to change your zoom background on desktop and mobile how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie