my account | sign out amazon shop amazon photos contact rss pda other writings advertising pj media march 27, 2020 this talk of decency is rich coming from markos “screw ‘em” moulitsas: and really, follow the link to see where he was in 2004. here’s what the kerry campaign said at the time: “in light of the unacceptable statement about the death of americans made by daily kos, we have removed the link to this blog from our website.” posted at 4:18 pm by glenn reynolds at amazon, powertac m5 tactical flashlight, 1300 lumens led flashlight, cree xm-l2 u3 flashlights high lumens, rechargeable flashlight with usb magnetic charging cable & 18650 battery. plus, navifalcon mens polo shirt with short & long sleeve cotton pique. posted at 4:16 pm by helen smith coronavirus probably isn’t helping: george leef reviews the breakdown of higher education, just out from roger kimball’s encounter books. posted at 4:05 pm by robert shibley my we don’t trust the media # 6,423,782: what the media isn’t telling you about the united states’ coronavirus case numbers. posted at 4:00 pm by charlie martin at amazon, shop amazon warehouse deals – deep discounts on open-box and used products. plus, shop amazon outlet – clearance, markdowns and overstock deals. posted at 3:00 pm by helen smith now we get to find out what’s in it: congress practices social distancing in passing covid-19 stimulus, as members spill out into the gallery. posted at 2:59 pm by charlie martin thurston, we have a problem. great moments in projection from john kerry: found via nbc, which tweeted the quote from kerry and embedded a link to this article — which doesn’t feature the quote from kerry. (classical reference in headline.) posted at 2:45 pm by ed driscoll out: freshman 15. in: the “quarantine 15.” posted at 2:30 pm by glenn reynolds at amazon, lifestraw family 1.0 portable gravity powered water purifier for emergency preparedness and camping. posted at 2:24 pm by helen smith get it treated: sleep apnea may increase risk for alzheimer’s. posted at 2:00 pm by glenn reynolds take a break from the serious news for a few minutes: florida man friday: illin’ and chillin’. posted at 1:56 pm by stephen green do as we say, not as we do: department of health and human services kept its gym open during coronavirus distancing. posted at 1:44 pm by ed driscoll hmm: joe biden advisor larry rasky tests positive for coronavirus after his death. posted at 1:43 pm by glenn reynolds at amazon, shop deals on today’s bestselling items. posted at 1:35 pm by helen smith to be fair, he also would relax border security and keep travel open to china: biden backed pelosi’s coronavirus stimulus obstruction as millions lost their jobs. posted at 1:32 pm by stephen green face masks: much more than you want to know. posted at 1:17 pm by glenn reynolds china shuts down all cinemas, again: “over the past two weeks, hundreds of movie theaters in the country had begun to reopen. no reason for the policy reversal was given, but insiders believe the government is worried about a potential second wave of coronavirus infections.” posted at 1:14 pm by ed driscoll you won’t believe the difference: covid-19: boris before and after pics stun brits. posted at 1:11 pm by stephen green photos: spacex stacks third starship prototype ahead of testing. posted at 1:00 pm by glenn reynolds heh: high-risk elderly man openly defies cdc coronavirus guidelines. “biden’s reckless face touching proves he’s not ready to lead.” posted at 12:55 pm by stephen green distillers are making hand sanitizer, but the bureaucracy is in the way: the tax and trade bureau of the treasury seems to have come around, but the fda is asserting jurisdiction and issuing conflicting orders. somebody needs to cut the red tape, pronto. (from a personal conversation, so no link.) posted at 12:54 pm by glenn reynolds #himtoo? biden, who pushed for believing all women during kavanaugh hearings, has been accused of sexually assaulting a former staffer. related: why didn’t jimmy kimmel ask joe biden about his sexual assault accuser, former staffer tara reade? to ask the question is to answer it. posted at 12:45 pm by ed driscoll sarah hoyt’s shocked face could not be reached for comment: china’s defense spending is larger than it looks. if you account for differences in reporting structure, purchasing power, and labor costs, you find that china’s 2017 defense budget provided 87 percent of the purchasing power of american’s 2017 defense budget. this runs counter to the conventional wisdom that the united states spends more on its military than the next 12 countries combined or that china lags annual u.s. military spending by close to $400 billion. those misleading comparisons are based on simply converting beijing’s reported defense budget from yuan to dollars by applying a market exchange rate. that produces a distorted picture. we must take into consideration several key factors to arrive at an accurate understanding of just how much beijing is investing in its military. one key factor—and perhaps the main one that makes accurate comparison so challenging—is how beijing accounts for its military research and development. put simply, it doesn’t include it in any of its reports on military expenditures. on the other hand, communist qc has never been any good. posted at 12:33 pm by stephen green dispatches from the education apocalypse: “students at the new york university tisch school of the arts want some of their tuition money back because they say virtual classes aren’t what they paid for — but instead of addressing the situation, the school’s dean sent them a video of herself dancing to rem’s ‘losing my religion.’” posted at 12:14 pm by ed driscoll walter duranty, call your office: new york times goes into full chinese propaganda mode as u.s. coronavirus cases exceed 80,000. posted at 12:06 pm by stephen green at amazon, kindle paperwhite – now waterproof with more than 2x the storage – includes special offers. posted at 11:45 am by helen smith in the mail: bodyweight workouts for men: 75 anytime, anywhere exercises to build a better body. posted at 11:00 am by helen smith analysis: true. kevin mccarthy: ‘history will not be kind’ to pelosi’s coronavirus shenanigans while millions lost jobs. posted at 10:58 am by stephen green quarantined journalist really starting to annoy family by calling them racists all day. from (where else?) america’s newspaper of record. earlier: wapo journalist doxxes twitter user with 395 followers for doubleunplusgood crimethink. posted at 10:44 am by ed driscoll analysis: true. the political media are failing america: their ineptitude, bias, childishness, and outright stupidity have become a genuine danger to the health of the republic. posted at 10:38 am by glenn reynolds blue on blue: joe biden’s description of two gay dads is dripping in homophobic tropes. posted at 10:31 am by stephen green if trump says something like this, it’s because he hates people and wants them to die. but now that andrew cuomo’s saying it: cuomo wonders if coronavirus quarantine may have backfired in some cases. “we closed everything down. that was our public health strategy,” said cuomo during an albany press briefing. “if you re-thought that or had time to analyze that public health strategy, i don’t know that you would say ‘quarantine everyone.’” it’s the third day in a row that cuomo has publicly mused about quarantines and how best to eventually restart the empire state’s shattered economy. we’ll be told that this is proof that cuomo cares about people, and the things the press said about trump will be memory-holed, at least until trump says something similar, in which case the cuomo remarks will be ignored. because #journalism. i mean, just watch the reaction to this: trump administration to issue guidelines for classifying u.s. counties by coronavirus risk: criteria designed to help local officials decide whether to increase or relax social-distancing rules. posted at 10:31 am by glenn reynolds make ‘em pay: university of michigan officials can be held personally liable for violating accused student’s rights: judge. posted at 10:30 am by glenn reynolds bibi’s back: deal reached for netanyahu to serve as prime minister in new unity government. posted at 10:22 am by ed driscoll mollie hemingway takes joe scarborough (and other ‘journalists’) apart: this is like the unstoppable meeting the unmovable (or at least he thought he was until mollie showed up). posted at 10:15 am by mark tapscott no, the ‘deplorables’ religion is not at war with science: it’s a common accusation from liberals, secular and otherwise, against conservative evangelicals, especially those in the south, that they “are opposed to science.” it’s not true now and in fact, as historian michael keas demonstrates, it wasn’t true at the outset of the scientific revolution. posted at 10:02 am by mark tapscott david lat update: ‘mild improvements’ for david lat, but prognosis still uncertain. there’s no timeline for expected improvement, because there’s not enough experience yet. posted at 10:01 am by glenn reynolds china syndrome: china supplied faulty coronavirus test kits to spain, czech republic. in the immortal words of that hong kong protester: don’t trust china, china is asshole. posted at 10:00 am by glenn reynolds i’m old enough to remember when he was literally hitler: trump is an authoritarian weakman. “coronavirus would be the perfect opportunity for an autocrat. trump isn’t taking it.” are you kidding me with this, john f. harris? the notion of trump as authoritarian strongman, however, has been cast in an odd light in this pandemic. would-be tyrants use crisis to consolidate power. trump, by contrast, has been pilloried from many quarters, including many liberals, for not asserting authority and responsibility more forcefully to combat covid-19. rather than seizing on a genuine emergency, trump was slow to issue an emergency declaration, moved gingerly in employing the defense production act to help overburdened local health systems, and even now seems eager to emphasize that many subjects—closure of schools and businesses, obtaining sufficient ventilators—are primarily problems for state governors to deal with. trump’s apparent personal affinity with putin, and other dictators, has caused foes to conclude that he has an aesthetic attraction to leaders who don’t let procedural niceties of democracy or law get in their way. but he has shown passivity in what by all rights would be a dream scenario for an authoritarian strongman. perhaps the way to think of trump is as an authoritarian weakman. i guess the argument here is that we’ve been cursed with a dictator who won’t dictate. our chattering class has collectively lost its damn minds. posted at 10:00 am by stephen green at amazon, hot new releases – updated every hour. plus, best selling products – updated every hour. also, shop amazon outlet – clearance, markdowns and overstock deals. posted at 9:00 am by helen smith possibly the first useful thing the seiu has ever done: union locates 39 million n95 masks for healthcare workers, local governments. posted at 8:58 am by glenn reynolds kruiser’s morning brief: beer blog fridays until the plague is over. “we need a respite from this real problem, and i am glad that i have the skills to provide that.” posted at 8:57 am by stephen green james lileks: sick burn from a blue check. posted at 8:45 am by ed driscoll ouch: posted at 8:45 am by glenn reynolds life under bad leadership: michigan’s doctors fight coronavirus, and governor’s office. though here in tennessee the state health department sent out a rather odd letter to providers, telling them that the hydroxychloroquine/z-pak treatment was unproven and that they shouldn’t use it, and also that they shouldn’t hoard hydroxychloroquine and z-paks because they were needed by patients and providers. posted at 8:43 am by glenn reynolds that’s because he’s doing a good job, and no amount of media gaslighting can hide the fact: a lot of americans like trump’s handling of crisis. posted at 8:38 am by stephen green thread: posted at 8:34 am by glenn reynolds at amazon, growgreen hoses, expandable garden hose, water hose with high pressure hose spray nozzle, flexible garden hose with all brass connectors, leak proof,and durable expanding garden hose, (50 feet). posted at 8:31 am by helen smith boris johnson tests positive for coronavirus. posted at 8:31 am by glenn reynolds topsy turvy world: andrew cuomo praises trump and jared kushner in virus fight. posted at 8:30 am by glenn reynolds hmm: coronavirus cases way underreported in massachusetts, across nation: experts. there are likely 10 times as many cases, experts say. posted at 8:26 am by glenn reynolds analysis: true. identity politics is the purveyor of real racism during coronavirus pandemic. posted at 8:22 am by ed driscoll wow: billionaire james dyson confirms his company will make an initial order of 10,000 ventilators in the u.k. posted at 8:16 am by stephen green at amazon, kindle paperwhite – now waterproof with more than 2x the storage – includes special offers. plus, nature’s bounty vitamin d3 pills & supplement, supports bone health & immune system, 5000iu, 240 count softgels. posted at 8:02 am by helen smith why does nancy hate america? as the speaker drags her feet on relief, america feels the pelosi bust. posted at 8:00 am by glenn reynolds pitching in: mit is developing open-source, $100 ventilators in response to covid-19 shortages. “the manual ventilator is already being tested by the fda. hopefully it will be approved quickly enough to save lives.” what i’d like to see is all this regulatory cruft shoved out on an ice floe for the retirement it deserves. posted at 7:55 am by stephen green at amazon, lightning deal, rechargeable tactical flashlight high lumens led 18650 5000mah battery charger usb cable gift box included l2 waterproof big torch portable adjustable aluminum flash light for emergency camping hiking. posted at 7:54 am by helen smith first migrant children in us custody test positive for coronavirus. related flashback: growing number of chinese immigrants smuggled through san diego border. posted at 7:45 am by ed driscoll suck it up, commiecup: china angry over coronavirus cartoon in danish newspaper. reminder: the virus is a fire, and the arsonist is china. “china did this. it’s not racist to say so. telling the truth doesn’t make you responsible for the actions of racists. thinking so, saying so, only helps the people who did this to you.” update: the chinese probably won’t like this one, either. posted at 7:30 am by glenn reynolds privacy: zoom ios app sends data to facebook even if you don’t have a facebook account. also: “zoom, one of the most anticipated tech ipos of the year, has one key profit driver: engineers in china.” makes you wonder who else zoom might be phoning home to. posted at 7:29 am by stephen green dispatches from the manchurian media: reminder: the washington post has been publishing literal chinese propaganda for years. posted at 7:22 am by ed driscoll never let a pandemic go to waste: teen vogue goes full marxist, wants destruction of capitalism in response to covid-19. posted at 7:14 am by ed driscoll but remember, they’re underfunded: nih failed to test coronavirus drugs, studied drunk monkeys, soap operas, and tailgating instead: expert warned agency as much as 87.5 percent of biomedical research was wasteful. the career path almost guarantees this. posted at 7:11 am by glenn reynolds that would be nice: game-changer: trump releases plan to free americans stuck in the house due to covid-19. here in colorado, governor polis ordered a statewide shutdown just two days after i praised him for sticking with moral suasion. posted at 7:07 am by stephen green dreams have consequences: the power of story – the downside. posted at 7:06 am by sarah hoyt coronavirus update: how 3m plans to make more than a billion masks by end of year. “the company is using ‘surge capacity’ to increase the production of n95 masks to fight the pandemic. localized supply chains are a secret weapon, too.” inside the story of how h-e-b planned for the pandemic. “the grocer started communicating with chinese counterparts in january and was running tabletop simulations a few weeks later. (but nothing prepared it for the rush on toilet paper.)” four seasons hotel offers new york city medical workers free rooms so they don’t infect their families with coronavirus. james dyson designed a new ventilator in 10 days. he’s making 15,000 for the coronavirus pandemic fight. inside the maine factory racing to supply america with virus test swabs. grassroots 3d printing efforts help produce medical safety gear. posted at 7:00 am by glenn reynolds i don’t know it, but i’m starting to get a sense of it: the shape of the future. posted at 6:30 am by sarah hoyt despicable governors playing stupid games are a dog bites man thing these days: a stupid little political stunt to get trump goes awry in nevada. posted at 6:15 am by sarah hoyt embrace the healing power of “both,” they’re both mad and trying to destroy us: covid-19 probably won’t destroy society, but the government’s reaction might. posted at 6:01 am by sarah hoyt because economics are life and death: “how can you talk economics when people are dying”. posted at 5:58 am by sarah hoyt the us is not a spherical cow of uniform density: new york city’s boroughs and covid-19. posted at 5:32 am by sarah hoyt yeah. this is my shocked face: us was more prepared for pandemic than any other country, johns hopkins study found. posted at 4:00 am by sarah hoyt will be a game changer. it already changed the game of muh computer model that they’ve been playing with us for weeks: covid19 update, march 26, 2020: antibody testing could be a game changer. posted at 4:00 am by sarah hoyt in the same way eating your own leg will keep you alive: wuhan virus watch: senate stimulus package will keep economy running for three months. posted at 3:32 am by sarah hoyt the truly horrifying toll: coronavirus’ other toll: 3.2 million americans filed for unemployment last week. posted at 3:00 am by sarah hoyt someday i’ll write about visiting my doctor for a biopsy (it’s fine) yesterday. (someday. when it’s funny.) i got three different messages on how to approach/enter the office. none worked. the office personnel didn’t even know the messages had been sent. our medical providers are overwhelmed. not by covid. by increased governmental intrusion int heir work: today covid-19 made my doctor and i criminals. posted at 2:30 am by sarah hoyt stop it. we’ve suffered enough: former sanders, warren advisers helped author a $2 trillion green energy stimulus deal. posted at 2:00 am by sarah hoyt this should* be the end of any legislation based on computer models: inaccurate virus models are panicking officials into ill-advised lockdowns. note that i said “should” not “will.” our politicians are too stupid to realize when a model assumes “a spherical cow of uniform mass.” against stupidity the gods themselves strive in vain. posted at 1:46 am by sarah hoyt march 26, 2020 deadly clown show: de blasio haunted by weeks-old tweet urging people to ‘get out on the town despite coronavirus.’ posted at 11:23 pm by glenn reynolds change: nation’s girlfriends unveil new economic plan: ‘let’s move in together.’ posted at 11:09 pm by glenn reynolds at amazon, spring deals in garden & outdoor. posted at 11:00 pm by helen smith don’t panic: dr. birx: coronavirus data doesn’t match the doomsday media predictions. “models are models.” plus: “so these are the things we are looking at, because the predictions of the model don’t match the reality on the ground in china, south korea or italy. we are five times the size of italy. if we were italy and did all those divisions, italy should have close to 400,000 deaths. they are not close to achieving that. models are models. we are — there is enough data of the real experience with the coronavirus on the ground to really make these predictions much more sound. so when people start talking about 20% of a population getting infected, it’s very scary, but we don’t have data that matches that based on our experience.” posted at 10:49 pm by glenn reynolds the problem with a cuomo candidacy: this is a terrible problem for democrats, but i would give priority to the important work cuomo needs to keep doing for new york right now. he should not be pulled off the job to do the work of running for president (or vice president!). right now, he looks especially good because he is coordinating with the trump administration. it would be disastrous to confuse that work by making him trump’s official opponent. getting through this crisis is more important than the presidential election, and even if it weren’t, the democrats are not going to win by putting their party interests above taking care of the immediate problem now. cuomo is the governor of new york. he’s doing a what seems to be a good job of it, right when that is what is desperately needed. that’s more than enough for cuomo. the fact that biden is a terrible presidential candidate for this time is just too damned bad. there’s always hillary. or michelle. posted at 10:41 pm by glenn reynolds you know, i wonder if jurors are going to quit believing fbi testimony and evidence: lori loughlin, college admissions scandal parents urge judge to drop charges. defense attorneys for the famous couple and other parents still fighting the charges say the case cannot stand because investigators bullied their informant into lying and then concealed evidence that would bolster the parents’ claims of innocence. “the extraordinary government misconduct presented in this case threatens grave harm to defendants and the integrity of this proceeding. that misconduct cannot be ignored,” the lawyers wrote. . . . the defense says prosecutors withheld evidence that would support the parents’ argument that they believed the payments were legitimate donations that would benefit the schools, rather than bribes for coaches or officials. the evidence — notes from the phone of the scheme’s admitted mastermind, admissions consultant rick singer — was not given to the defense until last month. singer wrote in the notes that fbi agents yelled at him and told him to lie to get parents to say things in recorded phone calls that could be used against them. singer wrote that fbi agents told him to say that he told parents the payments were bribes. “they continue to ask me to tell a fib and not restate what i told my clients as to where their money was going — to the program not the coach and that it was a donation and they want it to be a payment,” singer wrote, according to the filing. the defense says the notes show that agents bullied singer into fabricating evidence and trying to trick parents into falsely agreeing that the payments were bribes. “for government agents to coerce an informant into lying on recorded calls to generate false inculpatory evidence against investigative targets — and to then knowingly prosecute those targets using that false evidence — is governmental malfeasance of the worst kind,” the lawyers wrote. the punishment for this sort of government misbehavior should be naked public flogging. carried on live tv. in fact, of course, we’ll be lucky if anyone is punished, no matter how much proof comes out, because that’s how it’s been working out. posted at 10:19 pm by glenn reynolds welcome to the twilight zone. population: joe biden ok, look. he’s a hack. a likable, run-of-the mill, baby-kissing, glad-handing hack. that’s not news. but for heaven’s sake, how long can these idiots pretend the cheese hasn’t slipped off the cracker? “professor” biden? now he’s claiming to be a college professor. the washington examiner reports that: “when i left the united states senate, i became a professor at the university of pennsylvania,” biden claimed. “and i’ve spent a lot of time — and the university of delaware has the biden school as well, so i’ve spent a lot of time on campus with college students.” um, yeah, well, about that: biden was present on the university of pennsylvania campus four times to make speeches in 2017 and again in 2018. he was paid $776,527, which amounted to nearly double the average salary of the professors on campus at the time, according to phillymag. my professorship at nyu (adjunct, not tenured) pays in the neighborhood of $7,000 per class, and that’s for being in class with students, plus creating material, exams, and administrative bullshit. posted at 10:09 pm by charles glasser peyton manning crashes a utk online class. posted at 9:37 pm by glenn reynolds open thread: carry on. posted at 9:30 pm by glenn reynolds so mexico’s going to build a wall and pay for it? coronavirus: mexicans demand crackdown on americans crossing the border. posted at 9:19 pm by glenn reynolds sick people aren’t great economic contributors: study of 1918 flu: cities that imposed social distancing performed no worse economically than those that didn’t — and did better afterward. posted at 9:16 pm by glenn reynolds analysis: true. kevin mccarthy: ‘history will not be kind’ to pelosi’s coronavirus shenanigans while millions lost jobs. posted at 9:14 pm by ed driscoll huge if true: paper: case fatality rate for covid-19 in wuhan was actually 1.4%, not 4.5%. i’m not qualified to evaluate this, but some of you are. posted at 9:10 pm by glenn reynolds shocker: cuomo’s prison workers say they’re not actually making hand sanitizer. posted at 9:03 pm by glenn reynolds how a chinese company shipped massive quantities of medical gear out of australia at the beginning of the outbreak. posted at 9:00 pm by glenn reynolds space force! space force completed its first official launch today. posted at 8:55 pm by ed driscoll messing with texas: planned parenthood sues texas in order to keep killing babies during coronavirus pandemic. posted at 8:44 pm by ed driscoll our brave journalists: in an uncertain time, the media falls back on the thing it knows best: dividing people. two years ago, cnn infamously tracked down a person responsible for creating a wrestling gif lampooning their corporate logo, which just happened to be retweeted by president trump. reporter andrew kaczynski and cnn threatened to reveal the monster’s identity unless he apologized. cnn reporter drew griffen tracked down a senior citizen in florida and parked a camera crew on her front lawn, accosting her over her facebook group which he claimed was a russian front group that bought ads on facebook that swayed the 2016 election. this browbeating of everyday people on social media by activist journalists has become all too familiar. the problem with publishing stories like marc fisher’s in the washington post is that there are more people with a voice to pushback on this kind of random targeting. within minutes of fisher declaring on twitter that he had contacted mcmillen’s parents, he faced a tidal wave of backlash from people with plenty more than 495 followers. a very well-deserved twitter ratio; read the whole thing. update (charlie): nothing says serious journalist like “duude i’m calling your mom!” posted at 8:30 pm by ed driscoll news you can use: how to spot a chicom twitter troll. posted at 8:15 pm by ed driscoll bodyweight exercises: get jacked without leaving your house. posted at 8:00 pm by glenn reynolds at amazon, save in blu-ray and dvd. plus, deals in car care. posted at 7:00 pm by helen smith when making public policy, should we think about one hundred thousand deaths, or an average of a one in three thousand chance of dying?: covid-19, the evil genius, and how to think about societal risks. posted at 6:53 pm by david bernstein ← earlier posts instapundit is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. as an amazon associate, i earn from qualifying purchases. link to instapundit archives recommended six: the movie becker-posner blog blackprof books for kids blog cliopatria deceiver.com dr. helen instapundit store! my tcs columns of arms & the law pj media strategy page the tatler wifi net news big journalism aldaily anchoress andrew malcolm barone blog best of the web biased bbc blogcritics bluey blog brain terminal breitbart.com chris anderson cox and forkum daily howler dan gillmor dave barry david corn david frum day by day defensetech don surber drudge report electrolite ernie the attorney flit fraters libertas gary farber gateway pundit gene expression hit and run howard kurtz hugh hewitt indian country inside higher ed. jennifer rubin jim geraghty josh marshall jules crittenden jurist jwr kausfiles kevin drum larry kudlow mark steyn martin peretz mediabistro michael silence michelle malkin neal boortz politicalwire realclearpolitics red state rich galen scitech daily scott rosenberg slashdot slate.com tapped tcs daily that liberal media the corner the note townhall.com virginia postrel walter shapiro pure bloggers alphecca andrea see andrew olmsted ann althouse baldilocks baseball crank bigwig bill peschel bill quick bill whittle bitchgirls bjorn staerk blackfive blogosferics blogs of war brad delong brian carnell brian linse brothers judd burchismo capt. ed charles austin charles murtaugh chicagoboyz clayton cramer colby cosh cold fury cori dauber correspondence committee cranky professor critical mass crooked timber damian penny daniel drezner dave kopel dave winer david pinto dean esmay deinonychus denise howell derek lowe diana hsieh discriminations doc searls donald luskin donald sensing dpm dr. frank dr. weevil ed cone ed driscoll edward boyd eric muller eric s. raymond eve tushnet fight aging! futurepundit geek press gut rumbles haightspeech heather havrilesky howard bashman howard owens howard veit imao inkwell instalawyer iraq the model jack balkin james lileks jason kottke jay manifold jeff goldstein jeff jarvis jerry pournelle jessica’s well jim henley jim miller jim treacher joanne jacobs john cole john ellis john scalzi john weidner joshua claybourn kate kathy kinsley katie granju kesher talk kevin holtsberry kitchen cabinet la shawn barber larry lessig laurence simon listen missy lynne kiesling mark byron martin devon master of none matt welch matthew hoy mcj megan mcardle meryl yourish michael totten mike silverman milt rosenberg minuteman (maguire) misha mitch berg moira breen mudville gazette n.z. bear nanodot natalie solent nick denton no watermelons obscure store photon courier power line professor bainbridge rabbit blog rand simberg rantburg realclearpolitics rebecca blood redstate reid stott rich hailey right wing news robert musil robin roberts roger l. simon samizdata scsu scholars silent running sissy willis skippy spoons stefan sharkansky stephen green steven den beste stuart buck suman palit talkleft the agitator the fat guy the homeless guy the volokh conspiracy tim blair ublog walter olson will warren william hobbs winds of change yuppies of zion zeyad most popular what the media isn't telling you about the united states' coronavirus case numbers house passes $2 trillion emergency relief bill by voice vote after hostile debate about faq podcasts advertising terms of use powered by wordpress | instapundit & instapundit.com reg. u.s. pat. & tm. off. | view mobile site