i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: grilled egg and cheese recipe gadgets instant pot mains one pot wonders pasta recipes that noodle life instant pot pasta and meatballs posted february 26, 2020 by stephanie i know what you’re thinking: meatballs on a weekday?! yes, it’s true, after a long day of work the last thing i want to do is roll meatballs. in fact, getting delivery is probably my most favorite way to have a relaxing night. but, sometimes only homemade will do. in those cases, homemade plus instant pot is the answer. is this recipe super quick to make? yes and no. it only needs 5 minutes on high pressure in your instant pot, but of course it takes time for your ip to come up to pressure. also, you need to mix and roll out meatballs. but, you don’t have to cook and drain your pasta and you don’t have to worry about hanging out near the stove in case your tomato sauce starts splattering. instead, you can do the prep, set it, and forget it. or, you know, have a quick shower, change into comfy clothes and pour yourself a glass of wine or five. this is a pretty easy recipe to make! all you do is dump the sauce ingredients, along with the pasta into the instant pot. stir that all up, then mix up your meatballs, shape them, and place them right on top. on goes the lid, set it, then wait. when everything’s done and you open up your pot, give it all a stir and you’re ready to eat. this is self care at it’s finest. a saucy bowl of pasta and tender, juicy meatballs. the key to tender meatballs is the breadcrumbs. they help give it a soft, fall apart texture. if you want your meatballs really soft, add an extra egg – the extra moisture will loosen up the mix and make the meatballs even more tender. and yes, these are tender balls. no searing or browning here. mostly because we’re trying to save on time, but also because a braised meatball is somehow cozier than a browned one. don’t forget the parm! shower your bowl with some cheesy love, you deserve it! instant pot pasta and meatballs cozy comforting pasta rings and meatballs in tomato sauce. serves 4 prep time 15 mins cook time 20 mins total time 35 mins ingredients sauce 1 onion chopped 28 ounce can crushed tomatoes 2 tbsp tomato paste 1 tsp sugar 1/2 tsp garlic powder salt and pepper to taste 8 ounces pasta of choice meatballs 1 lb ground beef 1/2 cup panko or breadcrumbs 1 large egg 1/2 tsp salt 1/2 tsp freshly ground pepper 1/2 tsp garlic powder instructions in the instant pot insert, combine the onion, tomatoes, tomato paste, sugar, garlic powder, and salt and pepper. stir in 1 cup of water then add the pasta on top, without stirring in. make the meatballs by combining the beef, breadcrumbs, egg, salt, pepper, and garlic powder in a bowl. shape the meat into balls and place directly into the pot on top without stirring in. cover and cook on high pressure for five minutes. when done, quick release the pressure and carefully open the instant pot. stir and turn on sauté mode to reduce the sauce if needed. taste and season. enjoy! 9 comments nat says: february 26, 2020 at 5:55 am yum! looks delicious! do you use fresh pasta or will the recipe also work with dry pasta too? reply stephanie says: february 29, 2020 at 11:27 pm hi nat, you have to use dry pasta!! fresh pasta will basically disintegrate because it needs such a short cooking time! reply christie says: february 29, 2020 at 9:03 pm hello i am a food blog! quick questions: – is it possible to double the recipe and the results will be the same if you want to feed more people? – the pasta is sticking to the bottom. is there a way to prevent this? thank you! reply stephanie says: february 29, 2020 at 11:23 pm hi christie, i haven’t tried doubling it so i’m not sure if the pot can take the volume, but if you have the larger instant pot i think it will. if the pasta is sticking, add a bit more water (maybe like a quarter cup) and be sure to stir well. if your tomato sauce is really thick, you might want to add 1/2 cup. it’ll mean that the sauce will be a touch more watery though. you can also add a tablespoon of olive oil in with the water, which should help! hope that helps :) i‘ve also heard that not stirring the pasta into the sauce helps with it not sticking to the bottom of the pot. maybe give it a try? reply nancy says: march 1, 2020 at 8:22 pm just made this and the onions came out raw and crunchy. meanwhile, the pasta was undercooked and the meatballs (85% lean beef) came out dense and dry. where did i go wrong? reply stephanie says: march 10, 2020 at 5:48 pm hi nancy! what size instant pot do you have and how thick were your crushed tomatoes? if they were on the thicker side, that might have affected how much water the pasta got. did you remember to add in the extra cup of water? as for the meatballs, if you like a looser meatball, i’d recommend adding extra breadcrumbs. hope that helps! let me know if you try again :) reply deniset says: march 7, 2020 at 7:41 pm can i make this without the pasta, with all the same ingredients? i want to serve the meatballs with stuffed shells. reply stephanie says: march 10, 2020 at 5:30 pm absolutely! i often just make meatballs in the instant pot! reply miranda h says: march 8, 2020 at 5:22 pm made this for dinner tonight! it was delicious and the first insta pot meal my family said “make again” (only had mine a week)!! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website beefground beefinstant potnoodlespastatomatoes everything bagel spice aglio e olio pastaread better than takeout sesame noodlesread ziti alla norma aka eggplant and tomato pastaread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved