pricing features interworx clustering developers roadmap support overview blog documentation interworx forums version history help desk faq’s feedback and feature requests company end user license agreement privacy policy our brand contact us my account interworx scalable & secure hosting control panel - a smart, first three months are free! limit one use per customer. buy now try it free take a look a comprehensive linux server system for server admins, and a broad toolset for customers to manage their domains, email, and websites built for hosting providers, resellers, & website owners a decade of developing features to meet the needs of a web hosting control panel for our customers. simple pricing model user friendly design that supports mobile devices actively maintained and supported api, cli, and support for plugins interworx is actively maintained and supported developer friendly - cli, api and support for plugins awesome features interworx is comprised of two modules: nodeworx for managing servers, and siteworx for managing domains and websites server control configure ftp, ssh, firewall rules, ip addresses, nfs, mysql, dns, virus protection with ease hosting management easily create hosting accounts, configure plans and resource limits, setup email alerts, and much more! clustering cluster multiple server instances to meet the reliability and scalability demands of modern web applications or high traffic websites hosting management configure domains and email, install software, upload website content, and much more comprehensive backups single user interface to make full or partial backups with a single click and set backup schedules statistics suite comes with a powerful set of statistics suites to augment the other tools you use to monitor your web traffic. for managing your server for managing websites & domains how does interworx compare? interworx cpanel api/license admin system ✔️ ✔️ hotfixes, feature adds done "real time" ✔️ -- reseller functionality ✔️ ✔️ multiple admin accounts ✔️ -- multiple user accounts ✔️ -- let's encrypt ssl ✔️ ✔️ trial/demo license ✔️ ✔️ whm/root level panel ✔️ (nodeworx) ✔️ (whm) account level panel ✔️ ✔️ lb/server clustering ✔️ -- whmcs compatibility ✔️ ✔️ softaculous support ✔️ ✔️ multiple php versions ✔️ ✔️ licensed per account -- ✔️ licensed per server ✔️ -- testimonials hear what our customers have to say... “interworx is the hidden gem of control panels; i love it! it comes standard with all the integrations needed for a seamless end-user experience. no longer do we have to waste time installing and configuring modules to meet our needs, interworx has it all!” ryan gray ceo namehero testimonials hear what our customers have to say... interworx has been a fantastic platform for us. our support team has fielded far fewer requests from clients when using interworx vs. other control panels and importantly their team has been awesome at building in functionality we have needed over the years to better serve our clients moe patel gm at future hosting testimonials hear what our customers have to say... interworx is a very effective take on the modern control panel. it easily allows access for admins, clients, and clients of clients (in a reseller situation) to manage anything needed for their environments. additionally, it has useful features such as a command line version of itself, as well as the ability to be integrated with via a fully fledged api endpoint. ryan belisle director of client services at nexcess testimonials hear what our customers have to say... we love interworx! whether our customer is a 1000+ site reseller or just hosting a single site on a vps, interworx has the capabilities that our customers need. in addition, new feature requests and functionality tweaks are handled quickly and are able to be pushed out in “real time” by the interworx team. a simple licensing model, easy-to-support ui, and additional features like clustering and load balancing that aren’t built in to other panels make interworx a product that we are confident in recommending to our customers melanie purkis director of managed hosting products at liquid web hosting providers & resellers whether your problem is big or small, our trained & professional support staff is ready to help you get up & running quickly and smoothly version history stay up to date on the latest changes happening with interworx docs all the interworx documentation your team and customers will need help desk our interworx support team is ready to help via email, tickets and phone (500+ license customers only) interworx api integrate interworx into your business using our api interworx cli complete and powerful access to your interworx hosting resources from the command line community forums forums to discuss the different aspects of the interworx control panel and general forums as well simple pricing single license monthly $20(usd) includes nodeworx and siteworx host unlimited domains support through email and ticket system updates continual product upgrades try it free buy now bulk licenses 500+ licenses as low as $5(usd) lock-in annual or multi-year pricing support phone support whenever needed roadmap higher prioritized input on product roadmap contact us take a look watch a brief overview of the interworx panel interact in real time with each module of interworx click on the module logo below to begin © 2019 interworx, llc. all rights reserved. we use cookies to understand how you interact with our site, to personalize and streamline your experience, and to tailor advertising. by continuing to use our site, you accept our use of cookies and accept our privacy policy.accept