skip to content wine blog #7wordwinereview reviews wine racks wine coolers wine aerator what makes the lidl gin so darned popular 10 most popular champagne brands internationally – most are delicious a review of jay z’s ace of spades champagne best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktails at home best whiskey glasses 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best red wine glasses of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best rhubarb gin: brands that will turn even rhubarb haters best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it? 5 best toffee vodka brands that makes you very kissable | 2020 champagne gin non-alcoholic wine vodka close menu search toggle menu home > interviews / wine blog an interview with stephen browett: chairman of farr vintners published date 12th september 2011 last modified date 17th march 2020 categories interviews / wine blog author vim 22shares sharetweet stephen browett: chairman of farr vintners we talk to the chairman of farr vintners, stephen browett 12×75: stephen, thank you for taking the time to talk with us here at 12×75.com i suppose the first question we’d like to ask you is, how did you go from driving a van in 1980 for la reserve in knightsbridge to the chairman of farr vintners in 1985? what was your secret during those 5 years? stephen: well i started in the wine trade by driving a van for la reserve in 1980. after that i worked in one of their shops and joined farr vintners in 1984. we bought out mr farr in the late 1980’s but i didn’t actually become chairman of the company until i bought out my other partner 3 years ago. it’s actually been a long journey from driving the van to being in charge of the world’s biggest fine wine dealer. 25 years in fact. 12×75: farr vintners is very well known and respected in the market, how would you say that you keep the brand as strong as it is? stephen: by focussing on the very best wines of france (especially bordeaux) and a few other top wines from around the world. by having competitive pricing and a huge selection of stock. also by employing knowledgeable and efficient staff. 12×75: do you ever envisage a time where bordeaux will no longer be the largest traded region for farrs? do you see other regions or even countries taking a larger portion of the fine wine market? if so which ones? stephen: no bordeaux will always be king. burgundy may rival it for quality but they will never have the volumes to compete. 12×75: of late the prices of the blue chip wines have fallen, most notably the prices of lafite. would it be fair to say, that we in the wine market have been spoilt for far too long, and have only ever concerned ourselves with degrees of profit, and now for the first time in a while, we may have to face the fact that the price of top class wines can fall too? stephen: all markets must go up and down. that’s a certainty. blue chip prices have only fallen very slightly in comparison to the enormous gains of the past few years. you have to take a medium to long term view when looking at these things. 12×75: you were of course one of the first merchants to be setup up in hk in the late 90’s. how would you say the lay of the land has changed, since hk dropped its import tax? stephen: the scrapping of all taxes on wine in hk was one of the most important things that ever happened to us. for such an important market to suddenly become “duty free” meant that customers there could suddenly spend money on wine after years of holding back. fortunately we were already there and established when this happened. 12×75: it goes out without saying how well known robert parker is throughout the industry. if he were to retire tomorrow, what do you think would happen to the market? stephen: i doubt that any one critic would replace him in terms of influence. consumers would then have to be guided by several different critics. whilst the prices of the truly great wines of the world would not be affected by this, those that rp prefers more than other critics might be. 12×75: i would be a fool to not ask you about your purchase of crystal palace fc with three fellow investors. tell us, how did all of this come about? are you a passionate football supporter, or is this more of a commercial decision? stephen: it’s purely from the heart. i have been a crystal palace supporter since 1969 and we bought the club in order to save it from going bust. none of the four of us expects to make money out of it. it’s really just an expensive hobby that i am fortunate enough to be able to afford. 12×75: some of your fans have quoted the four of you as “heroes”….. what word would you use to describe yourself? stephen: well if we had not stepped in the club would have gone into liquidation but we just did what we had to do to stop our saturday afternoons being ruined. 12×75: with such a high profile role in the wine world, and now in the football world, i’d imagine a lot of your time is spent away, with trips to probably bordeaux and hong kong being a regular affair. how do you balance such a taxing work life, with your family life? stephen: by having excellent people working in the businesses and being able to delegate. with modern communications it is not actually necessary to travel all that much. 12×75: with all the tastings you go to, how much would you say you spend a year on teeth whitening with your dentist? stephen: i should spend a lot. black coffee and red wine are not great for teeth. 12×75: what advice would you have to any of the van drivers that work for farr vintners? do they also have a chance at the top job one day? stephen: with hard work and good luck anything is possible. 12×75.com would like to thank stephen browett immensely for making the time for this interview. stephen browett is the chairman of farr vintners & one of the owners of crystal palace fc.……………need i say more!!! – the editor lastest post: a review of the champagne moet et chandon summary article name an interview with the chairman of farr vintners, stephen browett description stephen browett was the first ever interview we did for this blog. he graciously took the time to answer some of the questions that we had for him. he is the chairman of farr vintners author vim publisher name 12x75 publisher logo 22shares sharetweet related posts wine blog 7 best sake bottles – buyer’s guide & tips wine blog football legend racks up a sky-high bar bill with world’s most expensive wine reviews / wine blog a review of freixenet prosecco prev post strange times for chateau lafite next post time and structure about 12×75.com 12×75 is a light hearted, comical wine blog which focuses on wine news, reviews, food & interviews with leading figures in the world of wine. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. articles about twelve by seventy five ltd (who have nothing to do with 12×75.com) will the real 12×75 please stand up, please stand up investment firm twelve by seventy five is not 12×75 recent posts best non alcoholic gin 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews most shared posts best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it?... being a native californian but living in nyc, i think i&# 28 shares best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktai... cocktail shakers are used for a variety of reasons in a v 35 shares the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s gu... what is it about opening wine that can sometimes be so an 33 shares interviews stephen browett – farr vintners doug rumsam – bordeaux index mark schuringa – ditton wine traders adon kumar – wine searcher judy leissner – grace vineyard peter lunzer – lunzer investments james miles – liv ex mark bedini – fine+rare david elghanayan – vanquish benjamin wallace – the billionaire’s vinegar paula & stacey golding – premier cru fine wine investments henri lurton – chateau brane-cantenac nigel jagger – octavian simon berry – berry bros. & rudd aline baly – chateau coutet adam brett-smith – corney & barrow maximilian riedel – riedel tony laithwaite – laithwaite’s wine pages about us contact us subscribe #7wordwinereview power… sitemap for great london seo services click away. ©2020 back to top search search close