skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: interior design the 4 must-know tricks for arranging furniture like a seasoned pro arranging furniture can be more difficult than it seems at first glance, as anyone who has ever spent hours rearranging a room knows. however, it is possible to make your arrangement work without a lot of blood, sweat and tears. with that in mind, we’ve brought you four must-know tricks… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration rethink your space: how to love where you live now feeling a little envious after that hgtv marathon? wishing your home was different after checking out your friend’s new digs? it happens to the best of us. the caveat to paging through idea books online or binge-watching home shows is that it can make your space feel less than. the… by jae curtis on march 4, 2020 in moving these are the 4 color rules that every interior design fan needs to know color is often the most difficult part of a room for interior design fans to get right. that’s because colors are fickle. there are so many shades to choose from and they need to be put together in the right proportions. otherwise, they won’t work together in harmony. luckily, there… by tara mastroeni on march 8, 2020 in inspiration entryway design tips: 6 ways to make an entrance in your home while often overlooked, the entryway might be one of the most important spaces in your home. after all, it’s the place that welcomes people into your home and, in some cases, might be the only part that visitors see. so why treat your entryway like a total afterthought? you can… by jae curtis on march 4, 2020 in inspiration how to create the perfect gallery grid in your home the gallery grid, a new take on the gallery wall, is the latest. keep reading to learn all about this twist on a classic. by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration bored with your interiors? here are 4 inexpensive ways to get out of your interior design rut it happens to the best of us. sometimes, despite our best intentions of creating a visually interesting room, we get stuck in an interior design rut. when this happens, there’s no other choice than to shake things up and do your best to create a new look. luckily, this process… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration these 4 living room trends for 2019 will inspire your next home design project every year, new trends hit the interior design landscape and 2019 is no different. in particular, this year there is an emphasis on living room trends. we’ve decided to take a closer look at them today. read on to learn about these new living room trends and tips on how… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in living room 4 simple ways to use wallpaper in a bedroom to create a fresh look lots of people have tried to use wallpaper in a bedroom, but only a few know how to utilize this material to its fullest potential. wallpaper shouldn’t just be thrown up as a way to do away with blank walls. rather, it should be a major player in the design… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in bedroom these 4 temporary decorating ideas will help you keep your security deposit safe decorating a rental can feel like a tedious task. on the one hand, you want to be able to create a space that feels like your own, no matter how long you intend to live there. on the other, you don’t want to get so into personalizing the space that… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration get inspired by this 1970s color flashback get 1970s color inspiration from this stunning living room. image: mindfuldaze retro paint colors have us falling in love right now. neutral colors have ruled the interior design world for years, but now we’re seeing exciting new colors everywhere. though the colors… by diana hathaway on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 1 2 … 13 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss