transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support intern/volunteer students for a free tibet is powered almost entirely by volunteers — both at the sft international headquarters in new york and on the grassroots level — due to our small budget and grassroots structure. interns and volunteers are an essential part of the work that takes place at sft’s headquarters and are vital to our strength as an organization and our effectiveness in fighting for tibet’s independence. interns and volunteers assist with daily functions of the office as well as work on long-term projects such as the newsletter, website, fundraising, campaigns, outreach, or event organizing. the sft office is open monday to friday, 10am–7pm. internship take your activism for freedom and human rights to the next level as an intern at students for a free tibet. interns are an essential part of the work that takes place at sft’s international headquarters and are vital to our strength as an organization and our effectiveness in fighting for tibet’s independence. this is a unique opportunity to learn from one of the most effective grassroots organizations in the field of political activism. click on the following internship opportunities for descriptions and qualification requirements. internships are available every spring, summer, and fall. and don’t forget that you can always get involved through our volunteer network! events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern apply now! volunteer sft is powered almost entirely by volunteers — both at the sft international headquarters in new york and on the grassroots level. volunteers are an essential part of the work that takes place at sft’s headquarters in new york city and are vital to our strength as an organization and our effectiveness in fighting for tibet’s independence. fill out our volunteer form if you are not in new york but would like to volunteer with us, please email grassroots@studentsforafreetibet.org students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×