related blogs antiviral art the best restaurant in new york blackbag defamer disputations documents dodgeandburn dog domesticity drugs fine vining fortress america frenchgawker weird internet interviews justice morning after phasezero politburo rankings gawker review of books sausage slowgawker sony hack one man's take the cuck themachines the vane the west tktk true stories valleywag an interview with @seinfeld2000, author of the apple store adrian chen · 09/04/13 04:20pm today gawker published the first installment the apple store, an original self-published novel by @seinfeld2000 which was censored from smashwords.com over copyright concerns by warner brothers'. not much is known about the real person behind @seinfeld2000, except he is a 30-year-old man, possibly canadian, who works "in television and write[s] for a few popular websites." (for good background, read this muckrack interview.) live q&a with art world bad boy and facebook millionaire david choe nitasha tiku · 08/21/13 05:15pm chances are you first heard of graffiti artist, illustrator, and multimedia enfant terrible david choe when facebook’s ipo made him somewhere in the vicinity of $200 million. but that story (he took equity rather than $60,000 in cash from sean parker to draw as many “giant cocks” as he wanted on the nascent social network’s office walls) is the least interesting thing about him. robert kolker talks lost girls and the long island serial killer case taylor berman · 07/17/13 11:40am robert kolker's lost girls, a book about the victims of the long island serial killer, covers the standard true-crime territory: the potential suspects, the police investigation, and the details about the crimes themselves. but more importantly, the book, through exhaustive reporting, details the lives of the women killed — all of whom were prostitutes from poor, "downwardly mobile, working-class communities” as kolker put it in our phone interview yesterday. instead of describing them as anonymous victims secondary to the spectacle of the unsolved crimes, kolker builds the book around the women, portraying them as the daughters, mothers, sisters, and friends that they were to the dozens of people who still mourn them. chat with brett martin who wrote that gq article you're talking about a.j. daulerio · 06/21/13 03:05pm gq's most recent july issue ran an excerpt from the book, difficult men: behind the scenes of a creative revolution: from the sopranos and the wire to breaking bad to mad men, by writer and author brett martin. the piece was from the sopranos chapter called, "the night tony soprano disappeared," and it centered on the show's two main alpha males: creator david chase and actor james gandolfini. after gandolfini's sudden death two days ago, the timing seems morbid, but is purely coincidental. a discussion with a north korean defector living in new york city adrian chen · 04/24/13 02:10pm park ji woo was born in north korea and escaped with her mother when she was 9 years old. today park is 24 and studies english in new york city. read her essay about escaping north korea here. terms of service privacy policy