the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop newswire introducing the a.v. club's new, virtual hollywood book club you may also like tv club council of dads crams a season of schmaltzy storytelling into its premiere caroline siedetuesday 10:00pm film 5 female-led martial arts movies to fill the mulan-shaped hole in your life katie rifewednesday 6:00am news comrade britney spears shares post calling for general strike and redistribution of wealth sam barsantituesday 7:49pm more from g/o media read on this is all going to last longer than we think read on here's a new covid-19 data site to obsessively refresh read on what you need to know about your federal government relief check [updated] read on here's an update on the $900 chinese ev i ordered from alibaba subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe marah eakin tuesday 3:30pm • filed to:hollywood book club hollywood book clubjessica simpsondemi moorebooksautobiographieselton johnlatoya jacksonthe jacksonsjackson 5 10 1 jessica simpson poses with her book in february. photo: amy sussman (getty images) it’s kind of hard to watch, read, or really dive into anything too serious right now. the world’s serious enough already. maybe that’s why everyone’s playing animal crossing and letting themselves be swept away by the majestic glory of joe exotic’s tight, tight jeans. we also long for connection with others while we’re sequestered away into our little houses, something that has sparked netflix viewing parties, zoom karaoke rooms, and awful bon jovi sing-alongs. advertisement here at the a.v. club, we’re trying to do what we can to help others—and ourselves—stay afloat in this hard time. that’s why we’re launching what we like to call our hollywood book club. every month or so, we’ll throw you, the readers, a poll to pick our next trashy book. once the decision is made, you’ll have two weeks to read, listen, or cliffsnotes whatever the selection is before we all come together on a nighttime video chat for a little virtual book club. we’ll have a couple staffers there to chat, but will hopefully also be joined by various luminaries from the world of television, film, and comedy. (schedules and shit-talking permitted.) the choices we pick from will probably skew toward the salacious. after all, tell-alls tend to be quicker reads than dry, college textbooks. that being said, if there’s something you’ve been dying to read and chat about, drop a suggestion in the comments, or send it to us on twitter. we’re happy to consider reader submissions. but first! the poll for the first hollywood book club pick. this time around, we’ll be choosing from recent—and not so recent—autobiographies penned by some of film and music’s most notorious talents. cast your vote below, look for the winner on our site and on our socials in a couple of days, and stay safe out there folks. advertisement marah eakin posts twitter marah eakin is the executive producer of all a.v. club video and podcasts. she is also a cleveland native and heiress to the country's largest collection of antique and unique bedpans and urinals. share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the a.v. club meet “dillman”—brooklyn nine-nine’s approach to a classic whodunnit we’ve reached the “horny for mufasa” stage of quarantine the best alien invasion movie of 1996 isn’t the one with will smith from justin to terrible: 21 unfortunate cinematic pop-star vehicles share tweet