home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library latest articles money prev investment options for your family’s future leyla preston thu 19th mar 2020 5shares share tweet pin children are expensive. so putting money aside may seem impossible, especially if your income is low. assuming all debt has been paid off first, saving for your family can be the most wonderful gift that you can provide your children because, not only can they start their adult lives without debt, but getting them involved early in the saving process will teach them valuable skills about how to look after their money. making a family investment in cash savings, however, can deliver much higher returns on your capital over the long-term. you may be cautious to dip your toe in the investment waters, particularly following the global stock market crash of 2008. but, if you don’t consider investing at all, you may fall short of the potential investment income you could make for your family fund. you don’t need super in-depth knowledge of the stock market, and there are several funds and investment vehicles available, depending on your risk appetite (how much risk you’re willing to take over your money). so, what forms of personal investment are available out there for you in the uk, and are they flexible and accessible enough to meet your ever-changing lifestyle with minimum risk? motherhood diaries looks at investment options for your family’s future. table of contents you can invest in pretty much anything real estate stocks and shares funds bonds children’s savings accounts saving for retirement – personal pensions you can invest in pretty much anything from wine to golden eagle coins, there are small investment opportunities anywhere you look, provided you can grow your capital. research the area you want to invest in so you can make wise investments into your family’s future. real estate buying a property is a great long-term investment option, as it can generate continuous passive income if the value increases. you can even use real estate to build your overall wealth and build your portfolio. however, you need to make sure you are ready to invest in real estate because you have to put a significant amount of money down i.e. the deposit to invest, regardless of whether you buy a park home or a mansion. there will be ongoing maintenance costs too, and you need to make sure everything is legal before you sign on the dotted line. a homeowners association attorney can help with the legalities before you buy a property. stocks and shares children’s junior isas and child trust funds are accounts of the cash variety, i.e. you save 100% of your child’s annual allowance in cash. but, as interest rates are so low at the moment, this may not be the best decision. it is difficult to find cash accounts that pay interest more than inflation, so you could effectively lose money every year. opting for an investment isa like a stocks and shares isa means that you can earn a substantial return on your capital over a long-term period. for adults, you get a £20,000 allowance for 2019/20, and some providers will offer a no platform fee for 1 year. you can use all of this allowance for cash investments like a stocks and shares isa, or you can split it between a stocks and shares isa, a cash isa (typically a savings account which you never pay tax on), lifetime isas and innovative finance isas. as a rule of thumb, invest for at least five years to allow time to smooth out bumps in the market where your investment earnings may dip. you can invest your money into a junior stocks and shares isa, where contributions are made on behalf of your child to buy various types of investments, and your child doesn’t pay tax on any capital growth, interest or dividends they receive either. although riskier than a junior cash isa, as the value of a junior stocks and shares isa can go down as well as up, this is a great option if you’re looking to invest over the long-term. junior stocks and shares isas can offer more potential for growth, whereas with a junior cash isa inflation could eat at any interest your child could make. if you already have a junior cash isa for your child, you can still open a junior stocks and shares isa, as your child can have both. you just need to make sure that the combined amount that you pay into both junior isas does not exceed the annual limit which is £4,368 a year. funds a fund is another way of buying shares, but you buy a slice of the company directly. each fund is made up of ‘units’, and the cost of these units vary daily. so, if you wanted to invest £1,000 into a fund and each fund cost £1, then you can buy 1,000 units. then if each unit goes up in value to £2, your investment is worth £2,000. funds can invest in almost anything, from gold to even debt, according to their theme (i.e. geography, industry and types of investments). which you decide to choose is up to you and your risk appetite. investing in stocks and shares or an actively managed fund provides the chance of growing money faster. there is, of course, the risk of getting less money back than what you put in. however, experience in the stock market has shown that this is a small risk. look for advice on investing and find a suitable provider that can manage your portfolio for you in the best possible way. but, it might be an idea to convert your stocks and shares into cash right before your child’s 18th birthday, to minimise the risk of a stock market crash, which may reduce the money they need in the future. bonds bonds are investment products that are created by governments and companies to raise money to pay for various projects like transport, a new factory or capital equipment. when you buy a bond, you are essentially lending money to fund these types of activities, and in return, you will receive a promise that you’ll get your money back, plus interest. bonds can be appealing as they provide an easy route to investing and are typically considered as low-risk. when you buy a bond you can receive interest payments which are also known as yields. they can also be fixed or floating rate or inflation-linked. however, it is important to note that bonds don’t guarantee payments since there is a risk that companies and governments can default and you can end up receiving less than your initial investment. with shares, there are no agreed interest payments and shareholders may receive a dividend. but, again, this isn’t guaranteed and it mostly depends on the company’s financial circumstances. children’s savings accounts the general rule of thumb for cash savings is to have about three months’ essential outgoings in a savings account, i.e. an emergency fund, to tie you over in case of an emergency. saving any sort of disposable income is difficult in this day and age, especially in the uk. but, a good way to start would be to put aside 10% of your earnings every month. the rest of your salary can be kept in your account for daily expenses etc. if you’re in debt or are struggling with your emergency fund, consider taking out a basic bank account which doesn’t require a credit check. it’s a good idea to start putting away small amounts into your children’s savings accounts now, which can lead up to large amounts later. a contribution of £10 a month at a basic interest of 3% could give your child nearly £3,000 by the time they are 18. saving £300 a month could produce a whopping £85,800. but, for longer-term investments, 18 yearly payments of £2,800 into a self-invested personal pension could make your children millionaires by the time they’re 65! saving for retirement – personal pensions as well as saving for short-term goals you really need to start thinking about your pension and saving for retirement (a long-term goal, so you don’t plan to draw from your investment until the distant future). my husband has worked full-time since leaving university. thus he is regularly contributing towards his state pension. i am, however, worried about my basic pension entitlement as there are gaps in my national insurance contributions from not working during my maternity period and subsequently working part-time at home while being a full-time mum. however, i intend to make up the shortfall with my own personal pension investment. look into providers that offer personal pensions where you can pay as much as you want when you want. if you are a basic rate taxpayer, the government adds 25% of any amounts you put in, up to £40,000 per year, or the value of your annual salary, whichever figure is lower. if you pay a higher rate of tax, then you may be able to claim even more via your tax return form. your initial investment can be as little as £5,000 where you can then make further contributions in regular instalments or ad hoc lump sums. you cannot withdraw any money from your pension until you are 55. p.s – www.nidirect.gov.uk provides much more in-depth advice on pensions and includes a state pension age calculator to give you an idea of your own personal pension status. consider asking for professional advice and creating a money investment plan before you start. but, waiting for the ‘right’ time to take the plunge might mean that you’ll lose out on possible gains in the future. the best time to start investing is now! *collaborative featured post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:bondscash isainvestment optionsjunior stocks and shares isaretirementsaving related posts my way or the highway the importance of saving money for the f... financial planning tips for new parents about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 5shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok