skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources investing money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies march 14, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment i've had an influx of questions from readers in the last two weeks. luckily a lot of them can be divided into categories and i can just answer them at once. here's a money q&a about covid-19, … continue reading about money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition march 1, 2020 by miranda marquit 3 comments here's the thing. some stuff that happens is ok for me. like a stock market drop. i don't actively wish for it to go down like this. but i'm not sad when it does. and that makes me feel bad. in … continue reading about feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition my emergency fund: taxable investment account december 27, 2019 by miranda marquit 1 comment updated january 1, 2020 i've turned a taxable investment account into my emergency fund. there are a couple of things that i "know" as someone who writes about personal finance for my "job." … continue reading about my emergency fund: taxable investment account betterment review: hands-off approach to investing november 15, 2019 by miranda marquit leave a comment if you want a hands-off approach to your investment portfolio, betterment is for you. here's my betterment review. many people worry about investing and choosing an online broker that will work for … continue reading about betterment review: hands-off approach to investing book review: money for the rest of us by j. david stein october 27, 2019 by miranda marquit leave a comment if you're looking for a straightforward explanation of investing — and how to make it work in your life — money for the rest of us is for you. i'm a huge proponent of making investing accessible … continue reading about book review: money for the rest of us by j. david stein diving head-first into investing: a first-timer’s guide to trading september 15, 2019 by miranda marquit 3 comments i'm not into active trading. in fact, i'm all about indexing. i'm the world's most boring investor. however, i've had some questions about trading recently. so i've put together this little guide to … continue reading about diving head-first into investing: a first-timer’s guide to trading go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 29 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com