call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact savings and investments today there are a bewildering range of savings & investments available to you. at the very least, building a savings or investment portfolio must take into account: your personal circumstances, tax opportunities; current and future tax status; attitude to risk and reward; capacity for loss; and balancing the need for income, growth or both. whether you are looking to set up a regular savings plan, review your current investment portfolio, or wish to take an income from your current investments, freedom advice can help you meet your objectives. with interest rates being at a very low level, many investors are seeking alternatives to cash, however these are not without risk. being independent financial advisers, freedom advice has access to the entire market, so can create bespoke solutions to cater for your needs. investments are highly complex areas of financial planning. freedom advice are highly qualified in investments, trusts, taxation and pensions to ensure you receive the very best and most up to date planning and advice we can provide. to speak to a member of our team in complete confidence and with no obligation, please call us on 0113 829 3465 or complete the enquiry form below to request a call back. your name (required) your email (required) subject your message call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.