skip to content skip to content menu start here blog podcast about categories ideas online business blogging self-publishing freelancing service businesses consulting coaching ecommerce amazon fba investing real estate peer-to-peer lending saving money hustle 101 productivity progress reports investing investing might sound scary or intimidating, but really it’s about one simple idea: how to make your money work for you. you earned it once, now how can you multiply it in a way that aligns with your risk tolerance? it’s weird, but i sit on both ends of the spectrum on this, at once having made big bets on my own business and experimenting with “alternative” investment platforms, and on the other hand being paralyzed into sitting on the sidelines by fear the market might go down. in this section of the site, you’ll find information on real estate investing, peer-to-peer lending, and even buying businesses. before you get started know your net worth. your net worth is the sum of all your assets (cash, savings, mutual funds, equity in your home, etc.) minus your liabilities (student loans, credit card debt, mortgages, etc.). one tool i like to help calculate your net worth is personal capital. it’s free! know your objective. what’s the goal of your investment? a goal of accumulating wealth to retire in 30 years is very different than a goal of earning $1000 a month in passive cash flow. selling tradelines: the $1000 an hour side hustle? march 2, 2020february 10, 2020 could selling tradelines be a new income stream for you? i’d heard whispers of this lucrative, relatively low time-investment side hustle, but never met anyone actually doing it. that is, until i ran into paul at fincon. he said he started out skeptical, but had turned it into a $1000 a month income stream with very little work. 2 comments 79 alternative investment platforms to earn stronger returns, build cash flow, and diversify your portfolio march 27, 2020january 13, 2020 i’ve been excited about alternative investments since my early days as an aspiring real estate investor and peer-to-peer loan shark. if you’re bored/scared/disillusioned with the “traditional” stock market and mutual fund asset classes, or if you just are curious what else is out there, this post is for you. the cool thing is we’re living in a golden age of alternative investment opportunities, and it was quite an undertaking to compile these options. 21 comments passive real estate investing: build cash flow and equity – without the sweat! december 3, 2019december 3, 2019 real estate investing is perhaps one of the oldest side hustles in existence. buy a house, rent it out, and build wealth. it’s a tried and true formula, and certainly a way to stop trading time for money. this idea was popularized by books like rich dad poor dad, explaining (often with real estate as an example) how you can “escape the rat race” when income from assets you control exceeds your monthly expenses. but real estate investing comes in many different “flavors” — and some take more time and money than others to get started with. 3 comments 358: house hacking 101: live free and turn your biggest expense into a profit center december 3, 2019october 24, 2019 what if you could make your rent or mortgage payment go away? or, what if instead of paying that expense every month, your living situation actually paid you? it’s not as far-fetched as it may sound. in fact, that’s exactly what today’s guest, craig curelop, has done by intentionally “house hacking” over the past few years. 2 comments 350: is real estate your next income stream? rental property q & a december 3, 2019august 29, 2019 buy a house. rent it out. tenants pay it off for you. it’s possibly one of the oldest side hustles in the books, right? done right, owning rental properties can be an attractive long-term income and wealth-building strategy. but done wrong, it can be a recipe for headaches and a mountain of debt. 2 comments options trading 101: 8 rules for success for total newbies july 11, 2019july 4, 2019 in this episode, we’re tackling a topic that’s been frequently requested by listeners, but is somewhat foreign to me, and that is options trading. to help school me on this, i’m excited to welcome my friend kirk duplessis to the show. kirk runs the super popular site optionalpha.com, where you can get all sorts of free options trading training. he’s been at this for over 10 years and the site has over 150,000 members. options trading is a high probability form of investing, but as with all investments it’s based on risk. risk, that kirk is able to leverage with his in-depth understanding of the market — and by following a few key rules he’s sharing with us today. 10 comments how i earn free amazon gift cards on autopilot – and how you can too march 24, 2020april 22, 2019 since i know i’ll eventually spend the money on amazon, an amazon gift card is pretty much as good as cash these days. but why would you buy amazon gift cards when you can get them for free? 2 comments 330: land flipping revisited: from zero to $10,000 a month on the side march 16, 2020april 11, 2019 roberto chavez started his raw land flipping side hustle a little over a year ago, and with persistence, has already built it into 5-figures of monthly revenue. this is a business model that was first introduced to me by mark podolsky, from thelandgeek.com, in episode 108 of the side hustle show. he called it “the best passive income model” because it avoids “the 3 t’s” of traditional real estate investing: tenants, toilets, and termites. 12 comments 5 of the most popular side hustles — and what to do instead september 9, 2019february 4, 2019 as side hustles become more popular — and perhaps necessary — let’s take a look at some of the common options … and what you might consider doing instead. 8 comments 303: the 15 income streams i’m working on right now september 9, 2019october 4, 2018 could you live for free? that’s what the side hustle snowball framework proposes: to erase your expenses with new income streams. here are 15 things you can start this year to begin living for free. these are my primary income streams today. 12 comments post navigation older posts 1 2 … 6 next → search for: join the nation! free report reveals the 5 fastest ways to make more money! i'm a hustler! greatest hits 99 side hustle business ideas you can start today 200+ ways to make extra money in your spare time 25 ways i make passive income + 46 more ideas that actually work how to start a blog [free 6-part video course] credit card rewards 101: how to earn free cash and travel by spending smarter my tedx talk: and the story behind it. usually hustling, occasionally social contact books write for us sponsor media terms of use | privacy | disclaimer | ccpa | do not sell my personal information © 2020 sidehustlenation.com we use cookies to to make sure you have the best experience on our website. cool?ok