programs back to menu programming and development back to menu programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence back to menu programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing back to menu programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science back to menu programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business back to menu programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems back to menu programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career back to menu career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise back to menu overview our approach solution about us sign in get started programs programming and development programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise overview our approach solution about us sign in get started nanodegree program become an ios developer master the swift programming language, and create a portfolio of ios apps for iphone and ipad to showcase your skills! download syllabusenroll now estimated time 6 months at 10 hrs/week enroll by march 27, 2020 get access to classroom immediately on enrollment prerequisites no prior knowledge required see prerequisites in detail in collaboration with what you will learn download syllabus syllabus become an ios developer you will start by learning the basics of ios app development using the swift programming language and xcode, apple's development environment. you'll develop your first ios apps using layouts, views, uikit, and more. then, you’ll progress to build more complex and advanced applications, using networking, and apple’s grand central dispatch and core data, and will be ready to publish your capstone project to the app store. learn swift programming and develop your first ios apps hide details estimated 6 months to complete prerequisite knowledge you are self-driven and motivated to learn. participation in this program requires consistently meeting deadlines and devoting at least 10 hours per week to your work.see detailed requirements. welcome to the nanodegree learn what to expect in the classroom, get familiar with programming in swift, and download xcode, apple's development environment for ios. learn swift programming learn the basics of swift, the programming language used to develop ios apps. intro to ios app development with swift build your first app with swift and xcode, apple’s programming environment for app development. you’ll learn how to use autolayout, uibuttons, and uilabels to create an interface, and how to react to touch events in an app using viewcontroller and multiple views. you’ll also learn how to set up audio recording and playback in a voice recording app.pitch perfect uikit fundamentals develop an app with uikit, apple’s front-end framework for developing fast and powerful web interfaces. learn about the delegate pattern to make connections between the app’s model, view, and controller, and add table views and navigation to your app.mememe, part 1mememe, part 2 network requests and gcd incorporate networking into your apps, and harness the power of apis to display images and retrieve data. use apple’s grand central dispatch, or gcd, framework to create asynchronous apps, ensuring a smooth user experience, even while your apps run lengthy operations in the background.on the map data persistence learn about simple persistence, the ios file system, and the “sandbox.” set up the classes we need to get core data up and running so that we can create, save, and delete model objects. enable user interfaces to reactively update whenever the model changes, and safely migrate user data between versions.virtual tourist final project this is your chance to let your ios developer skills shine! for this final project, you'll design and build your own ios app, taking the design from the drawing board to the app store.you decide! (capstone project) need to prepare? no programming experience is required, but if you’d like to try the swift programming language, you may enjoy our free course, swift for beginners. this nanodegree program includes coursework on using git and github, but if you’d like to learn those skills before enrolling, take our free course, how to use git and github. in 2017, global app revenue grew by 35% to reach nearly $60 billion, with ios apps accounting for $38.5 billion of revenue. all our programs include real-world projects from industry experts with real world projects and immersive content built in partnership with top tier companies, you’ll master the tech skills companies want. technical mentor support our knowledgeable mentors guide your learning and are focused on answering your questions, motivating you and keeping you on track. personal career coach and career services you’ll have access to career coaching sessions, interview prep advice, and resume and online professional profile reviews to help you grow in your career. flexible learning program get a custom learning plan tailored to fit your busy life. learn at your own pace and reach your personal goals on the schedule that works best for you. program offeringsfull list of offerings included: enrollment includes: class content content co-created with at&t icon-checkmarkcheckmark real-world projects icon-checkmarkcheckmark project reviews icon-checkmarkcheckmark project feedback from experienced reviewers icon-checkmarkcheckmark student services technical mentor support new icon-checkmarkcheckmark student community improved icon-checkmarkcheckmark career services personal career coaching new icon-checkmarkcheckmark interview preparations icon-checkmarkcheckmark resume services icon-checkmarkcheckmark github review icon-checkmarkcheckmark linkedin profile review icon-checkmarkcheckmark resume shared with 95+ employers new icon-checkmarkcheckmark succeed with personalized services we provide services customized for your needs at every step of your learning journey to ensure your success! experienced project reviewers technical mentor support personal career coach get personalized feedback on your projects reviews by the numbers 2000+ project reviewers 1.8m projects reviewed 4.85/5 reviewer ratings 3 hour avg project review turnaround time reviewer services personalized feedback unlimited submissions and feedback loops practical tips and industry best practices additional suggested resources to improve succeed with personalized services we provide services customized for your needs at every step of your learning journey to ensure your success! project reviewers technical mentor support career coaching get personalized feedback on your projects reviews by the numbers 2000+ project reviewers 1.8m projects reviewed 4.85/5 reviewer ratings 3 hour avg project review turnaround time reviewer services personalized feedback unlimited submissions and feedback loops practical tips and industry best practices additional suggested resources to improve learn with the best jarrod parkes instructor jarrod is an experienced ios developer with a passion for reinventing how students learn. he holds a bs in computer science from the university of alabama. gabrielle miller-messner instructor gabrielle earned her ph.d. in population biology from uc davis, where she discovered the joys of programming while analyzing dna sequences. she has a background in teaching, and worked as an ios engineer before joining udacity. kate rotondo instructor kate is an ios developer, speaker, author, and teacher who has spoken at conferences across the globe from altconf in san francisco to mobile central europe in poland. she also has hosted a podcast on work-life integration for parents in tech. owen larosa instructor owen is an ios and android app developer, and is the student experience lead for ios programs at udacity. he graduated from the ios developer nanodegree program in 2015. student reviews 4.6 (596) shantanu r. udacity's ios developer nanodegree is the best set of programming courses i have ever taken. even when compared to trainings offered by silicon valley tech companies, graduate-level university courses, and courses on other online platforms (coursera and code school in particular), udacity's courses are better designed. plus, the course projects have been beyond all my expectations. at the completion of every course, i feel confident that i will be able to build world-class software--and this has never happened before. udacity is worth every penny, and i hope more online schools and offline universities study udacity's methods to learn how software engineering education can be made effective. peter k. i can't believe how great the program was. it has a lot of short focused videos on what is most used and important in ios development. the projects at the end of several lessons would encourage you to use the what you learned and incorporate it into the project's solution. information is constantly being updated so that you know what are the best practices in the technology field. this online school is designed precisely to teach you what you need and i wished i attended this four years ago. i recommend engineers of all level to take a nanodegree and get a breadth of information that will make them a more well rounded engineer. the profession development courses and reviews is equally good. marcel o. the ios developer nanodegree is an awesome program to learn all the fundamentals and some advanced stuff of ios programming. the feedback reviews of your projects are incredibly useful. furthermore, it is possible to learn good programming practices, design patterns, how to find answers on forums and on the documentation, etc. this was really important to me because i'm not currently working as a software engineer and all the content that is taught in the course made me a better programmer overall. finally, this course teaches not only how to be better technically as a programmer but also how to do well in your interviews and how to prepare your resume. 10/10 for sure. mike m. i really love the high expectations of the program so far, particularly the expectations that we go explore, read, and research certain topics, discuss with colleagues, and figure stuff out on our own. i am learning a ton from the approach of "here are the tools you need to do this, here is what the tools do, here are some of the things to watch out for, and here are some steps to do certain things you will need to do... now you figure out how to assemble the pieces into something useful!" it is challenging and rewarding, and the feedback on the projects thus far has been very timely and insightful. loving it! lybron s. i've been doing ios development for a few years now, so i came into this program with some experience. i joined mainly because i'm self-taught and don't have a background in computer science; i wanted to ensure that i'm adhering to best practices and brush up on my weak areas. some of it has been revision, but overall it's a great program with excellent learning content--probably the best ios program i have come across to date. whether you're completely new to programming, or you're like me and have some previous experience, the ios nanodegree is definitely worth the time investment. gregory f. this course is well designed and beautifully presented. the videos and links work perfectly, and the tuition style is friendly and welcoming, which is great for a novice to the programming world. best of all is the amazing support available from the forums and one on one tutor sessions. whenever i hit a dead end, help is at hand. this makes the difference between getting stuck and giving up (which i would have done long ago if i were studying from a book), and persevering. great course, great presenters, awesome support. i recommend it highly. next program details program overview - why should i take this program? why should i enroll? this nanodegree program will prepare you to publish your first ios app, whether you’re already a developer or relatively new to programming. in this program, you’ll not only learn how to build ios apps, you’ll also learn best practices in mobile development, and gain mastery of swift, an open-sourced object-oriented programming language. through 6 hands-on, reviewed projects, you’ll gain the skills you need to become an ios developer. according to the 2017 stack overflow job trends report, ios developers are among the top-3 most in-demand developer positions in the job market. enroll in this program today, and start building your future as an ios developer. how do i know if this program is right for me? this program is designed to prepare you for a job as a professional, junior-level ios developer within a wide range of organizations and environments: from large corporations where you’d likely be part of a development team, to entrepreneurial start-ups and contract projects where you could be working independently to deliver an application. enrollment and admission do i need to apply? what are the admission criteria? no. this nanodegree program accepts all applicants regardless of experience and specific background. what are the prerequisites for enrollment? you are self-driven and motivated to learn. participation in this program requires consistently meeting deadlines and devoting at least 10 hours per week to your work. collaboration with peers and interactive feedback are critical to the success of the program. you must be a committed and contributing participant of the community. technical requirements: access to a mac computer running macos 10.14.3 or later if i do not meet the requirements to enroll, what should i do? no programming experience is required, but if you’d like to try the swift programming language, you may enjoy our free course, swift for beginners. this nanodegree program includes coursework on using git and github, but if you’d like exposure to git and github before enrolling, you may wish to take our free course, how to use git and github. tuition and term of program how is this nanodegree program structured? the ios nanodegree program is comprised of content and curriculum to support six (6)projects. we estimate that students can complete the program in six (6) months, working 10 hours per week. each project will be reviewed by the udacity reviewer network. feedback will be provided and if you do not pass the project, you will be asked to resubmit the project until it passes how long is this nanodegree program? access to this nanodegree program runs for the length of time specified in the payment card above. if you do not graduate within that time period, you will continue learning with month to month payments. see the terms of use and faqs for other policies regarding the terms of access to our nanodegree programs. can i switch my start date? can i get a refund? please see the udacity program faqs for policies on enrollment in our programs. software and hardware - what do i need for this program? what software and versions will i need in this program? access to a mac computer running macos 10.14.3 or latershow less ios developer download syllabus enroll now featured programs product manager ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow data streaming ux designer java developer ai product manager sensor fusion engineer data visualization cloud developer cloud dev ops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms marketing analytics data engineer android basics android developer ios developer business analytics data analyst front end web developer full stack web developer intro to programming intro to machine learning with pytorch machine learning engineer predictive analytics for business programming for data science with python react only at udacity artificial intelligence deep learning digital marketing flying car and autonomous flight engineer intro to self-driving cars machine learning engineer robotics software engineer self-driving car engineer udacity schools school of artificial intelligence school of autonomous systems school of business school of data science school of programming school of cloud computing resources catalog career resource center career services hire talent get hired student success udacity talks scholarships what is ai? talk to an advisor programs veterans georgia tech company about blog in the news jobs become an instructor udacity intersect enterprise udacity for enterprise hire talent support contact us help and faq service status tech requirements © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. legal & privacy site map united states china "nanodegree" is a registered trademark of udacity. © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. udacity is not an accredited university and we don't confer traditional degrees. udacity nanodegree programs represent collaborations with our industry partners who help us develop our content and who hire many of our program graduates. we use cookies to optimize site functionality, personalize content and ads, and give you the best possible experience. learn more accept cookie preferences