skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search is losing followers a good thing? what if losing followers were a good thing? this is my thought: we are often soooo scared of losing followers, that we lose our spine and backbone from actually doing interesting things. when is loss a good thing? i am happy when i lose body fat. don’t weigh yourself on a scale, pinch your stomach fat instead. when we lose fat, it is good. when we get rid of negative people from our life, “loss” is good. if you’re trying to make your race car faster, losing weight is good. when we want to be more productive in life, we gotta reduce drag. we gotta remove and reduce friction. don’t get suckered by numbers digital sharecropping the new slavery? social media slavery. this is the problem: we are so afraid of losing followers, likes, and ‘influence’ that we end up creating boring, generic, mono-cultural stuff. or in other words, we play it safe. but what lasts? safe and boring stuff doesn’t last. what lasts? risky, bold, audacious! track losing followers as a good metric? create today like it were your last all in life is subjective and relative. maybe this will be our new metric: when you start losing followers, subscribers, etc… treat this as a sign that you’re doing something right! eric haptic industries eric kim neck strap mark ii $ 119 read more zen of eric: empower yourself with philosophy and photography sale! product on sale $ 19 $ 0 add to cart ultimate beginner’s guide to photography entrepreneurship online course enroll now! dark skies over tokyo by eric kim $ 3,000 add to cart empower yourself with haptic > photography entrepreneurship 101 eric kim x henri neck strap enroll in my udemy course: ‘ultimate beginner’s guide to photography entrepreneurship’: create your own future > entrepreneurship philosophy how to add to economic activity digital capitalism money is movement anything is possible brave new world of digital entrepreneurship generate how to profit from calamity capitalism 2.0 why i’m so passionate about information society 2.0 phoenix entrepeneurship how to make art from home buy yourself just blog it. market yourself expensive talk social media slavery who are your ideal followers? why i blog, vlog, and log your perspective is irrefutable what are your hidden powers? impact maximization, not profit maximization our desire to maximize impact and change 10 rich tips how to make money from photography create what you would love to consume publish is pleasure retire now do you desire to become the best? solo entrepreneurship my vision of photography entrepreneurship put your name on it the desire to transcend ourselves money thoughts how to retire via negativa productivity why you must make your own website individuals over companies build yourself success is survival why you shouldn’t go to photography or art school how to differentiate yourself as a photographer surpass yourself can you handle extreme freedom? boutique or mass market? proof of concept unified field theory for photography build a company you’d never sell play the long game entrepreneurship and art what is the source of our strength? what’s the future for photography? full-stack visual artist why scale? what is your unfair advantage? substance marketing share your dopeness with others frugality is freedom minimum viable product (mvp) for entrepreneurship don’t follow or predict trends, start your own trend! if you’re not busy growing, you’re busy dying entrepreneurship born from superabundance, not need/necessity photography entrepreneurship philosophy how to master marketing in photography photography entrepreneurship tips and ideas is hustle sufficient unto success? don’t do it for the money digital marxism zen entrepreneurship bolder is better. streamers shall inherit the earth photography blogging give me a laptop and i shall move the world! the future is photography blogging how to become a great blogger if you can’t code, blog instead! daily blog of activities how to monetize a blog without advertising how to publish yourself how to blog the future of photography publishing is photography blogging. why become a photography blogger? why you must become a photography blogger why you should delete your instagram and start your own blog money how to use wealth to become rich, don’t go broke why save money? less money, less problems self-empowerment life is too short to be negative why you must follow your passion in life how to conquer shyness don’t ask for permission onto the next one why you must self-promote yourself why you must conquer your fears in life marketing and branding why you must become a photography blogger why blog? why you must self-promote yourself create substance, not content photography marketing and branding 101 how to master marketing in photography 10 tips how to become a more famous photographer entrepreneurship lifestyle why hustle? why save money? ascetic is sexy why you must become self-employed how to push yourself beyond the limit is location independence overrated? entrepreneurship mindset how to get discovered financial independence disregard success or failure; always attempt more! in praise of stubbornness success is personal bravery why you must become an entrepreneur how to brand and market yourself as a photographer how to conquer haters how to accumulate capital why be different? how to master marketing in photography don’t play it safe why blog? how to be a more productive photographer how to hustle true productivity what can only you do? love risk what is success? fill a vacuum think big what is your dream in life? 8 blogging productivity tips why be normal? how much suffering are you willing to endure to achieve your dreams? photography entrepreneurship 101 don’t sit still! bitcoin for photographers don’t be timid why start your own photography blog? fill a void 1,000 true followers: how to build your own niche in photography photography entrepreneurship 101: why you must start your own email newsletter turbo creation: why a maxed-out macbook laptop is the best investment you can make for photography entrepreneurship life and productivity hacks my ultimate productivity and life hacks life/productivity hack: write (type on a phone) while walking on a dynamic treadmill eric kim life, creativity, and productivity hacks how to make a living from your passion digital nomad photographer build your own instagram! how to be more ambitious do it your way how to measure your progress as a photography entrepreneur + come up with new ideas how to make a living from your passion in photography put a dent in the universe. fear disguised as reason distraction is the enemy innovate for the sake of innovating! reality is malleable! stoic entrepreneurship against self-preservation the purpose of life is to make new stuff! how to succeed as an entrepreneur you have no limits. calculated risk-taking invest in yourself the secret of happiness: shoot for the moon! moonshot thinking why we should all be photography entrepreneurs memento mori entrepreneurship why it is better to beg for forgiveness than ask for permission how to become a digital nomad why you must own your own platform first principle thinking for photography entrepreneurs how i became a digital nomad better to beg for forgiveness than ask for permission! spurn pleasing others! create your own niche how to gain more exposure for your photography intense focus how to conquer your fears as an entrepreneur define yourself let dissatisfaction drive you forward! it doesn’t matter if someone else has done it before! how to succeed as a photography entrepreneur: be extremely resourceful open source business model in photography entrepreneurship entrepreneurship 101: growth and innovation over self-preservation how to create value as a photography entrepreneur why become a photography entrepreneur? why you must ignore nay-sayers to succeed in entrepreneurship, business, and life the modern photographer: tips, strategies, and tactics to thrive as a visual artist in the digital age marketing, branding, entrepreneurship principles for success modern photographer is your new philosophical and practical primer to succeed as a modern photographer in today’s digital world. modern photographer kindle edition on amazon see all products on amazon business mental models eric kim x henri neck strap how to succeed as a photography entrepreneur: be extremely resourceful open source business model in photography entrepreneurship entrepreneurship 101: growth and innovation over self-preservation how to monetize your photography photography entrepreneurship 101: influence should i monetize my passion for photography? 10 practical photography monetization strategies: pricing, google seo, & entrepreneurship how to make money from street photography why become a photography entrepreneur? take control of your own photographic destiny: photography startup manual photography entrepreneurship manual on risk taking and entrepreneurship the modern photographer creative capitalism how to monetize your photography 5 practical photography career tips and advice 10x thinking how to hustle as a photographer how to become your own master marketer the ‘t’ technique of success go ahead and sell out what is your unique voice? why you must self-promote yourself what is your unique angle as a photographer? photography content marketing 101 why you must become your own publisher the art of cross-pollination in photography photography entrepreneurship articles why you shouldn’t trust your pictures to facebook, instagram, snapchat, and flickr how to make money from your photography photography seo and blogging: how to become number one on google intrinsic vs extrinsic motivation now is the best time to be a photographer producerism what is the value of a picture? your photographic labor is not free photography workshops 101 chapter 1. how to make a photography blog chapter 2. how to price yourself chapter 3. how to find your market chapter 4. why teach workshops? chapter 5. how to build trust chapter 6. how to market yourself chapter 7: why should someone attend your workshop? keys to success why you must be a “personality” in order to succeed thrive or die. impatience is a virtue create your own category how to dream big. will not or cannot? why not? how to think big how to stay ahead of the curve how to invest in yourself the two camera rule meaningful differentiation advice for college students how to thrive in uncertain times cannibalize yourself. do and grow rich does fear of punishment hold you back? how to get more followers how to innovate how to build your own empire you are entitled to hard work. pick yourself. own your platform 10 keys to success table of contents learn how to make a living from your passion: preface. brave new world of photography chapter 1. how to create value chapter 2. zen capitalism chapter 3. scarcity chapter 4. how to brand yourself chapter 5. how to build a true following chapter 6. the blueprint to success in photography chapter 7. how to be bold chapter 8. how to sell out chapter 9. go against the grain chapter 10. extreme abundance chapter 11. photography experience economy chapter 12. why you should make money for your photography chapter 13. how to become a famous photographer photography business 101 practical photography business advice how to make money with photography camera money usd by annette kim how to charge more money in your photography why you should not pursue photography as career can photography make you rich? how i earn $200,000+ a year from photography how to earn $10,000 a month as a photographer why you must be an expensive photographer photography marketing 101 why have more followers? why you should do photography work for free how i became an internet famous photographer photography blogging ideas why you should promote your own name how to build a following how to stand out as a photographer. how to go viral as a photographer. how to master marketing how to sell yourself sellout eric kim how to hustle. entrepreneurial advice to my 18 year old self how to become insanely productive. 5 lessons from hesiod on hustling entrepreneurial principles it is better to beg for forgiveness than ask for permission the free way to become rich just do it. 7 steps: how to make a living from your passion how to do what you love for a living how to create an mvp (minimum viable product) how to fail big how to invest in yourself how to be bold in photography and life mission: cover your rent and food 1,000 true fans the “10x principle”: the only difference between “success” and “failure” make more value not money we live in a photo utopia how to be a full-time photographer how to make a living from photography the 3 principles of making money with photography advice for aspiring full-time photographers don’t go into debt for your photography how to brand yourself as a photographer trust: the most important thing you need to succeed as a photographer photography blogging how to become rich from photography blogging how to make a living with blogging 50 blogging tips for beginners how to start your own photography blog a photographer’s guide to seo, blogging, and social media how to teach photography how to become a photography teacher how to teach a street photography class why i teach street photography workshops social media why i deleted my instagram the social media blackbook for photographers why do you need more likes or followers? instagram is going to be the next facebook don’t trust “free” photography social networks how to save money how cindy saved us $150,000+ the free way to become rich start here > henri neck strap (mark iii) shoot fearless > haptic industries creative tools to empower you. haptic industries on amazon > eric kim newsletter free motivation: email address eric kim workshops conquer your fears and meet new peers: april 25-26: chicago conquer composition workshop september 19-20: boston discover your unique voice in photography workshop (new date) november 4-8: havana, cuba travel street photography workshop experience – register intent join ars: the anti-social social media for photographers what do people really think about your photos? arsbeta.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta