engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget jabra elite 75t buy now login the buyer's guide find it, buy it and tell us how you really feel. all phones laptops gaming headphones home theater tablets more photography networking storage reviews / headphones jabra elite 75t reviews / headphones jabra elite 75t from $179.99+ $179.99 buy now share share 87 engadget score an all-around great product that's among the best in its category. you'll almost certainly be happy. 87 an all-around great product that's among the best in its category. you'll almost certainly be happy. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). engadget review jabra’s latest true wireless earbuds are significantly smaller and last 2.5 hours longer than 2018’s elite 65t. they also sound better, but they don’t have active noise cancellation or a wireless charging case (yet). however, they’re still cheaper than most of the competition, and a very compelling option for the price. read full review pros much improved audio small and comfy longer battery life cons no anc no wireless charging (yet) on-board controls take training reviews 84 average critic score critic reviews 10 90 cnet better sound than the airpods pro it's an all-around excellent set of true wireless earbuds that has enough improvements, including a significantly improved design and better battery life, to make it one of the top models in this highly competitive and quickly evolving headphone category. read full review 80 digital trends massive bass from tiny earbuds small in size, but big on comfort, the jabra elite 75t are a good choice for small ears or those who want to wear earbuds for an extended amount of time -- something their 7.5 hours of battery life makes possible. their bass-heavy eq is impressive given their size -- but it won't be for everyone. read full review see all critic reviews 0 average user score user reviews 0 see all reviews specs key specs type earbud channels stereo drivers per ear 1 noise isolation yes connections wireless type channels drivers per ear noise isolation connections earbud stereo 1 yes wireless write a review tip: log in before writing a review step 1: rate and comment on specific criteria sound quality 0 design and form factor 0 comfort 0 noise isolation 0 durability 0 step 2: write a detailed review tips: make sure to include your initial thoughts on using the product, any observations and potentially any issues you might have run into while using it. step 3: finalize your product rating and submit your review we've calculated your overall product rating based on the average of your criteria ratings above. you can adjust this rating by dragging this slider. overall rating 0 login and submit! 87 engadget score an all-around great product that's among the best in its category. you'll almost certainly be happy. 87 an all-around great product that's among the best in its category. you'll almost certainly be happy. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). see all scores scores engadget 87 critic 10 reviews 84 users not yet scored user reviews there are currently no user reviews associated with this product. that's okay though because you can add your own review and we'll feature it here. write a review about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr