skip to content 3× annual “best of” apple podcasts 400+ million episodes downloaded 8,000+ 5-star reviews the blog of author tim ferriss tim ferriss's 4-hour workweek and lifestyle design blog. tim is an author of 5 #1 nyt/wsj bestsellers, investor (fb, uber, twitter, 50+ more), and host of the tim ferriss show podcast (400m+ downloads) latest episode: dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more (#417) https://rss.art19.com/episodes/206cd7fc-e344-4897-b31b-d038e19f5330.mp3download menu home podcast all episodes and guests sponsorship and advertising newsletter books tim’s books the tim ferriss book club about tim ferriss bio causes media kit and samples terms of service disclosure – the full monty privacy policy contact media kit and samples contact corrections? please fill out this form. jobs search for: search posted on march 12, 2020march 13, 2020 by tim ferriss jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos (#414) 26 comments topics: categoriesthe tim ferriss show share this: facebook twitter email reddit print join 1.5m+ subscribers and receive exclusive tools, tips, and resources sent directly by tim: type your email address yes, sign me up for tim's free email newsletter. i agree to the privacy policy. get access “we have the opportunity, even in difficult times, to let our spirit shine.”— jack kornfield jack kornfield (@jackkornfield) trained as a buddhist monk in the monasteries of thailand, india, and burma, shortly thereafter becoming one of the key teachers to introduce buddhist mindfulness practice to the west. he has taught meditation internationally since 1974. jack has had a profound and direct impact on my life, and i’m thrilled to have him on the podcast once again. jack co-founded the insight meditation society in barre, massachusetts (with fellow meditation teachers sharon salzberg and joseph goldstein), and the spirit rock center in woodacre, california. he holds a phd in clinical psychology and is a father, husband, and activist. jack’s books have been translated into 20 languages and have sold more than a million copies, including the wise heart; a lamp in the darkness; a path with heart; after the ecstasy, the laundry (one of my favorite book titles of all time); and his most recent, no time like the present: finding freedom, love, and joy right where you are. he offers a brilliant online training program for those who want to learn to teach meditation at jackkornfield.com. this episode is more of a personal therapy session for yours truly in some respects. you will notice that i sound anxious and unsure in this interview, and that is very much by design. i think it is unhelpful when people in the public eye hide the fact that they also struggle, and it puts them on this illusory pedestal that i think is ultimately self-defeating. instead, i want to share with you that no matter how much stoic philosophy i read, no matter how often i meditate, there are times when i struggle, and this week is one of them. i also hope that you’ll listen to portions of this conversation multiple times. there are a number of exercises that jack shares that i will certainly be listening to in the upcoming weeks. please enjoy. listen to the episode on apple podcasts, spotify, overcast, stitcher, castbox, google podcasts, or on your favorite podcast platform. listen onapple podcasts listen onspotify listen onovercast #414: jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos https://rss.art19.com/episodes/e330e413-15f9-4472-8a58-e1d287b6833d.mp3download this episode is brought to you by freshbooks. i’ve been talking about freshbooks—an all-in-one invoicing+payments+accounting solution—for years now. many entrepreneurs, as well as contractors and freelancers that i work with, use it all the time. freshbooks makes it super easy to track things like expenses, project time, and client info and then merge it all into great-looking invoices. freshbooks can save users up to 200 hours a year on accounting and bookkeeping tasks. right now, freshbooks is offering my listeners a free 30-day trial, and no credit card is required. go to freshbooks.com/tim and enter “tim ferriss” in the “how did you hear about us?” section! this podcast is also brought to you by 99designs, the global creative platform that makes it easy for designers and clients to work together to create designs they love. its creative process has become the go-to solution for businesses, agencies, and individuals, and i have used it for years to help with display advertising and illustrations and to rapid-prototype the cover for the tao of seneca. whether your business needs a logo, website design, business card, or anything you can imagine, check out 99designs. you can work with multiple designers at once to get a bunch of different ideas or hire the perfect designer for your project based on their style and industry specialization. it’s simple to review concepts and leave feedback so you’ll end up with a design that you’re happy with. click this link and get $20 off plus a $99 upgrade. what was your favorite quote or lesson from this episode? please let me know in the comments. scroll below for links and show notes… want to hear jack’s first appearance on this show? listen to this episode in which we discuss hang gliding, monk training in thailand, unpleasant mystical experiences, the difference between compassion and empathy, lovingkindness meditation, and more. (stream below or right-click here to download.): #300: jack kornfield — finding freedom, love, and joy in the present https://rss.art19.com/episodes/f6381ff7-2f63-46c0-a888-052337df33f5.mp3download selected links from the episode connect with jack kornfield: website | twitter | instagram | facebook jack kornfield — finding freedom, love, and joy in the present, the tim ferriss show #300 insight meditation society spirit rock — an insight meditation center the wise heart: a guide to the universal teachings of buddhist psychology by jack kornfield a lamp in the darkness: illuminating the path through difficult times by jack kornfield a path with heart: a guide through the perils and promises of spiritual life by jack kornfield after the ecstasy, the laundry: how the heart grows wise on the spiritual path by jack kornfield no time like the present: finding freedom, love, and joy right where you are by jack kornfield coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19), cdc buddhism, religious literacy project, harvard divinity school what is a bodhisattva?, tricycle already free: buddhism meets psychotherapy on the path of liberation by bruce tift peace corps 872 days in hell: 38 chilling photos of the siege of leningrad, ati grams of hope: daily bread ration in besieged leningrad, rt “sports do not build character; they reveal it,” quote investigator a great wind carries me, flourish & bloom the explorers club absolutely clear by hafiz “life is trouble”, zorba the greek the dharma: the teachings of the buddha, religious literacy project, harvard divinity school samadhi, the yogic encyclopedia awakening “the one who knows” by ajahn chah, lion’s roar ego-dissolution and psychedelics: validation of the ego-dissolution inventory (edi), frontiers in human neuroscience hinduism, religious literacy project, harvard divinity school judaism, religious literacy project, harvard divinity school kabbalah and hasidism, religious literacy project, harvard divinity school one robe, one bowl: the zen poetry of ryokan by ryokan bringing home the dharma: awakening right where you are by jack kornfield ayahuasca-assisted treatment, maps ibogaine therapy, maps the search for soma, the ancient indian psychedelic, psychedelic times tripping on peyote in navajo nation, scientific american blogs magic mushrooms and the healing trip, the new yorker dying to know: ram dass and timothy leary how the vietnam war empowered the hippie movement, history how to change your mind: what the new science of psychedelics teaches us about consciousness, dying, addiction, depression, and transcendence by michael pollan the world’s largest psychedelic research center, the tim ferriss show #385 about holotropic breathwork, grof transpersonal training the federal drug scheduling system, explained, vox meditations by jack kornfield 11 mysterious things that occur while you sleep, bright side stan grof, lessons from ~4,500 lsd sessions and beyond, the tim ferriss show #347 aphasia symptoms and causes, the mayo clinic the cosmic game: explorations of the frontiers of human consciousness by stanislav grof marsh chapel experiment (aka good friday experiment), wikipedia 1962 good friday experiment (podcast), maps johns hopkins psychedelic research center the world’s five biggest refugee crises, mercy corps nature’s lessons in healing trauma: an introduction to somatic experiencing by peter levine, somatic experiencing trauma institute emdr institute tara brach on meditation and overcoming fomo (fear of missing out), the tim ferriss show #94 radical acceptance: embracing your life with the heart of a buddha by tara brach show notes amid covid-19 fears, i confess this conversation isn’t entirely selfless — it’s as much therapy for myself as it will likely be for my listeners. jack demonstrates an exercise he used to help a large virtual class in china cope with the fears and anxieties generated by the current situation there. [08:10] how might someone blend a western developmental framework with an eastern fruitional framework to best solve the unique problems we’re facing today? could it be as easy as remembering “your buddha nature and your social security number?” [16:06] jack recalls the first time he got malaria as a monk in the forests of thailand and laos in the ’60s, how his teacher helped him through it, and the lesson we can take to find our center in the midst of outwardly miserable circumstances — how we can witness what’s present without being lost in it. [21:08] our society may not be well-prepared to deal with the further spread of covid-19, but here’s a lesson from wwii that might help us prepare ourselves with some perspective. [25:41] if it’s true that adversity reveals — rather than builds — character, has jack noticed any patterns among people who are having the greatest psychological difficulty dealing with the spread of the covid-19 coronavirus, and is there anything to be learned from them that can help us? [28:15] at nearly 75 and part of the demographic most susceptible to the covid-19 coronavirus, how does jack relate to his own mortality? he tells us about a visit with his twin brother shortly before his passing a few years ago and what he did to facilitate peace at this difficult time. [31:43] meditating on the four dimensions of freedom that allow us to “enter the terrain of birth and death with a wise and spacious heart.” [38:52] what might jack suggest as a way of helping people overcome their fears and anxieties around the process of dying — either for themselves or their loved ones? [49:19] i concur that using an altar for the sake of visualization can be surprisingly effective, and that linking consciousness with others may be helpful for people who feel isolated during periods of quarantine or social distancing. jack expands on the idea that we shouldn’t be squeamish about letting things go. [57:44] what is the significance of guan yin for jack as a symbol of something we all have inside of us, and what is spirituality really about? [1:01:22] jack’s take on psychedelics as sacred medicines throughout human history, their welcome reintroduction to the mainstream after being demonized for decades, and the complementary relationship between psychedelics and meditation. [1:07:21] in what ways does jack feel these sacred medicines can be overused or abused when they’re not treated with due respect? [1:16:34] often underrated ways that we, as spiritual beings, can access and interact with the mysteries around us — from poetry to sleep. [1:20:33] recommended preparations and precautions before dipping a toe in the pool of psychedelics. [1:23:05] according to stan grof, what is experiencing an urge toward suicide really trying to tell us? [1:26:31] jack’s favorite stan grof book. [1:27:42] when ram dass passed the torch of psychedelic research to roland griffiths. [1:28:27] how experiencing psychedelics under a controlled setting at johns hopkins differs from casually taking them at a party. [1:31:11] how would jack suggest that people think about trauma? [1:32:16] jack explains how, in his final years, ram dass became “a lighthouse of love.” [1:44:03] what is jack focused on these days? [1:48:52] my personal endorsement of the expansive toolkit that jack and clinical psychologist tara brach brings to the table — especially for anyone who has ever considered learning to become a meditation teacher. [1:51:03] parting thoughts. [1:53:21] people mentioned sharon salzberg joseph goldstein tara brach thich nhat hanh gautama buddha bruce tift ajahn chah irving kornfield hafiz george zorbas pema chodron ajahn mun sri nisargadatta grandson desmond guan yin jesus mother mary mahatma gandhi ram dass ryōkan taigu timothy leary stanislav grof michael pollan alice walker roland griffiths mary cosimano matt johnson peter levine bessel van der kolk michael meade luis rodriguez malidoma some krishna das maharajji trudy goodman related and recommended the tim ferriss show is one of the most popular podcasts in the world with over 400 million downloads. it has been selected for "best of apple podcasts" three times, it is often the #1 interview podcast across all of apple podcasts, and it's been ranked #1 out of 400,000+ podcasts on many occasions. to listen to any of the past episodes for free, check out this page. topics: categoriesthe tim ferriss showtags: tagscoronavirus, covid19, guided meditation, meditation leave a reply cancel reply comment rules: remember what fonzie was like? cool. that’s how we’re gonna be — cool. critical is fine, but if you’re rude, we’ll delete your stuff. please do not put your url in the comment text and please use your personal name or initials and not your business name, as the latter comes off like spam. have fun and thanks for adding to the conversation! (thanks to brian oberkirch for the inspiration) 26 replies to “jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos (#414)” mark says: march 13, 2020 at 6:16 am what was the fourth dimension of freedom? i got the first three! reply hhs says: march 16, 2020 at 10:28 am to turn attention from experience towards the mystery of consciousness that is ever present. sit with the interaction of experiences and ourselves, how does it build/break us. reply coleharbur says: march 13, 2020 at 12:04 pm wow – tim talking to jack kornfield? never thought it would happen. reply aatik chopra says: march 17, 2020 at 10:35 am 2nd time it’s happened actually! and if have been following tim’s work, it comes as no surprise. he is now focusing on understanding and implementing tools & habits to promote mental wellbeing. reply brian w says: march 14, 2020 at 10:36 am you know where coronavirus is going via the tomas pueyo article. i, brian wang, have written [moderator: blog name removed from published comment.] for the past 15 years on breakthrough technology and science. i have been angel investing, fundraising, and helping businesses grow. for the past few weeks, i have been all in advancing a solution that can scale in weeks to mitigate disease spread by 70%. we have alessio fasano, harvard doctor/specialist as part of the team. we are in talks with italy, other countries and major corporations. urgent that we talk today. [moderator: contact info removed from published comment.] reply chelsea says: march 15, 2020 at 3:36 am great episode! any chance of you interviewing ash ambirge? reply heather stimmler says: march 16, 2020 at 5:50 am loved the quote jack shared by the zen master ryokan (referring to himself): “last year, a foolish monk; this year, no change.” i’m going to make that my byline for 2020. 😉 reply mason says: march 16, 2020 at 9:34 am thanks for the updates. listened to you for a long time now reply jacob balisalisa says: march 16, 2020 at 5:14 pm tim, loved the episode. but i have something on my mind…i would also love to hear from someone who can weigh in on distributed computer processing right now. recently seti shut down and most of the users are converting their processing power to covid19 projects such as on. (i found out about the projects on reddit). as another person stuck home due to the virus (baltimore, md), i am excited at the thought that i can somehow join arms with others to help in some small way in the “fight”. but i also have a lot of questions: am i really making a difference? how many people will it actually take to finish a project? is the project we are working on a “nice to have” or a “need to have”? is there any way to even know? reply tim c says: march 17, 2020 at 8:48 am sorry. this podcast doesn’t do it for me. ive tried but there is way too much abstract to the point that it sounds like bs. reply michael says: march 17, 2020 at 1:07 pm this was like a guided meditation itself. thank you for this. reply seagullquest says: march 18, 2020 at 3:13 pm thank you! thank you! thank you! for this episode. i loved the calm that i felt while hearing it, and will continue practicing thanking my anxiety for trying to keep me safe and placing it in a bowl in the care of my angel. stay safe and healthy! reply luca says: march 19, 2020 at 2:52 am ciao, i’m luca and i’m writing to you because you have been one of my mentor during these years, and considered the current crazy situation, i know truly believe everything is possibile in life. first, thank you for everything you shared with your community, you are a very inspiring human being for a lot of us. secondly, this is something i think you could be interested in. you don’t want to receive emails so i have to try here. you teached us to try to reach our mentor. i’m doing it. be safe you and family reply remy jordan says: march 19, 2020 at 4:50 am great article. thank you so much for sharing such a great piece article. i really appreciate. reply josefin kannin says: march 19, 2020 at 8:19 am thank you tim for bringing this wise and compassionate being to your podcast! reply staci says: march 19, 2020 at 11:09 am thank you for having jack kornfield on your show (again). he has the most soothing voice and eloquent words. at these very unsettling times, he calms my person. btw i absolutely love your podcast and all you share. thank you! reply stephen cardile says: march 19, 2020 at 1:18 pm hi tim, loved this podcast and again how you show yourself fully. i applaud your courage and vulnerability. i’ve gotten so much value out of your content in the past decade and am very grateful for it all. thank you! i wanted to try and return the favor. i believe we have similar hurts (distress patterns) as although i am older i grew up in brooklyn during the 70’s and spent a lot of time on long island during my youth. i’ve been a meditator since the late 1980s and in the 1990s had my 1st spiritual awakening during that time period when i got to experience 1st hand what “presence” (or my soul) felt like. it was no longer a mental concept. however it wasn’t until recently (after a sever illness) that i moved into living from that place (which some call enlightened living). i think that what had such a big impact on that process was doing tara brach’s mindfulness training (thanks again for pointing me towards her work) and then rereading eckhart tolle’s the power of now (which had a much bigger impact on me now then it did when i attempted to read it when it first came out). the key foundation seems to be the self attunement meditation work (http://www.csaprocess.com/). let me know if you would like more information. love, stephen reply james cormack says: march 20, 2020 at 2:08 pm hi tim, the way you stepped into vulnerability was great leadership-by-example for us to follow. thank you for this timely podcast. as a therapist i’ve been putting all the main info i want to give people right now on [moderator: link removed.], and i’ve just added a link to this podcast on there. it’s all about well-being, adapting and thriving in isolation / quarantine / lockdown. (it’s a live page, it’ll be evolving and improving over coming hours, days and weeks). thanks again and looking forward to more. best wishes, james reply paul john sewell says: march 21, 2020 at 10:03 am this was a lovely episode with jack k, very insightful. these dialogues between tim and these spiritual teachers are fantastic. however i’d love to hear tim and/or others explore more the “innate health” model pioneered by sydney banks and taken further by george and jack pransky, michael neill, jamie smart, elsie spittle, ken manning, robin charbitt etc…. they all talk about the “inside out” perspective which for me surpasses all of these other approaches. in a nutshell: we already each have this intact mental health but it’s obscured by our thoughts. it’s the over-thinking, ruminating which blocks a clear sense of mind. it’s like the sun is always there but blocked by the clouds. ryan holiday touched it only briefly in his last (great) book, stillness is the key. what i love about this body of work is that you don’t have to “earn” this sense of clarity and stillness, it’s already here. also there’s nothing to do like trying to eliminate or reframe our thoughts. all thoughts pass and they only stick around because we focus on them. this understanding has changed my life and i only hope more people are exposed to it. of course tim would benefit from it as everyone would. cheers and stay safe out there! reply lynda beth unkeless says: march 22, 2020 at 11:32 am richard lang was interviewed recently by sam harris on his podcast. lang talks with harris about “the headless way” which was created by douglas harding. in this “way” a few exercises—found for free—on their website can lead a person into a spacious awareness and contentment without hours of grueling meditation. thousands of people are enjoying the peace, freedom and relaxation this “way” provides now. for free. reply kim talbot says: march 21, 2020 at 12:32 pm thank you, tim, for bringing people to this podcast that give uplifting, tangible messages. you have saved my sanity many times over the past couple of years…..and now, more than ever ❤️ reply bas says: march 22, 2020 at 8:15 am please invite peter levine for the podcast one of these days. he has so much valuable information to share on trauma and especially how to get through these times untraumatized. hope very much tim’s team is getting in touch with him! reply lynda beth unkeless says: march 22, 2020 at 11:36 am this beautiful conversation gave me so much peace, calm, and reassurance. i have forwarded it to many. thank you so much jack and tim! reply emma huang says: march 26, 2020 at 10:15 am tim, i just want to express how much i’m grateful of this session with jack. it has been a real healing session for me and helped me to find inner peace (at least for now) and get my own pace back. his voice and the rhythm he spoke were so calming and infuse me a lot of power and makes me feel safer in my current living context. i cam from china, shanghai and moved to rotterdam in early jan this year to start a master program. the covid 19 happened just a few weeks after i arrived here and all of my friends and family in china were suffering for almost 2 months. i wasn’t able to feel them until now. like other countries in europe, netherlands has also closed all the social activities including school and implementing strict social distance policies. everything because virtual, and i am not good with virtual connection. lacking of human touch and engagement had me quite helpless and feel very lonely at this point. especially these days, i was on the 12th days self quarantine schedule without any fixed routine. everyday waking up to many chaotic news and damage report. i couldn’t get away from it. i experienced strong sense of disorientation, paranoia of getting unwell and depression from disconnecting with people. all of these were draining away my energy. this episode with jack was just in time like remedy to my chaotic mind. the immediate effect after this episode to me was so magnificent. i felt relieved and warm and i even burst into tears. this is a truly a therapeutical 2 hours and i cannot thank you and jack enough for giving me such a candid and sometime venerable sharing. i like what you said in the notes. no matter how much stoic philosophy i read, no matter how often i meditate , there are times when i struggle and this week is one of them. thanks for being so genuine. i am sure i will come back to this session multiple times. thanks for the power. em reply katie says: march 26, 2020 at 3:34 pm after listening to your recent shows with brené brown, jack kornfield and laura gottlieb someone you should consider having on your show is dr. joanne cacciatore. she is an associate professor & researcher and director of the graduate certificate in trauma and bereavement at arizona state university. she received her doctorate from the university of nebraska-lincoln. dr. cacciatore is also the founder of the miss foundation, an international nonprofit organization with 75 chapters around the world aiding parents whose children have died or are dying. her book, bearing the unbearable: love, loss, and the heartbreaking path of grief, is a national award winning best seller that has helped revolutionize the way our culture thinks, and feels, about grief. dr. cacciatore works with and counsels families from around the world who have experienced catastrophic deaths. she and her work have been featured in top print venues such as boston globe, new york times, newsweek, bbc, and the wall street journal and on television shows such as cnn and bbc. dr. cacciatore is an advocate of “green” emotional and mental care for those suffering traumatic grief. she received the prestigious hon kachina award, the sr teresa compassionate care award, the empathic therapist of the year award, arizona foothills arizona women who move the valley award, and the parents of murdered children father ken czillinger award. reply k says: march 26, 2020 at 3:56 pm this was a beautiful discussion – especially paired with tim’s patient, listen-focused interview style. you can sense kornfield’s genuine tenderness and joy of life. many nuggets of wisdom, here. grateful for this episode. reply post navigation previous postprevious comfort challenge #4: revisit the terrible twos next postnext the tim ferriss show transcripts: brené brown — striving versus self-acceptance, saving marriages, and more (#409) join 1.5m+ subscribers and receive exclusive tools, tips, and resources directly from tim: type your email address yes, sign me up for tim's free email newsletter. i agree to the privacy policy. get access twitter instagram facebook youtube linkedin click to subscribe apple podcasts spotify overcast popular podcasts brené brown — striving versus self-acceptance, saving marriages, and more (#409) how to support healthcare workers now — plus urgent suggestions for uber eats, hilton, amazon, and more (#416) jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos (#414) the top 25 episodes of the tim ferriss show from 2019 topics 30-day challenges (2) 4-hour case studies (50) automation (7) comfort challenges (4) dance (3) e-mail detox (23) entrepreneurship (60) fearless (2) filling the void (93) gadgets (15) geoarbitrage (8) interviews (29) investing (18) language (16) low-information diet (42) marketing (54) mental performance (42) mini-retirements (24) muse examples (9) nonsense (5) opening the kimono – otk (4) outsourcing life (17) physical performance (51) practical philosophy (39) presentations (3) protecting time (14) psychedelics (14) quarterly shipments (3) random (29) remote offices (7) rockstar living in… (5) rust and iron (2) science (5) the 4-hour body – 4hb (48) the 4-hour chef – 4hc (39) the 4-hour chef recipes (1) the book – 4hww (44) the slow-carb diet (4) the tim ferriss experiment – tfx (11) the tim ferriss show (394) the tim ferriss show transcripts (256) tim ferriss book club (6) tools of titans (8) travel (67) tribe of mentors (10) writing and blogging (35) books by tim ferriss the 4-hour workweek the 4-hour body the 4-hour chef tools of titans tribe of mentors we use cookies and similar technologies to run this website and help us understand how you use it. see our cookie policy here. sitemap site terms of service privacy policy copyright © 2007–2020 tim ferriss. the 4-hour® is a registered trademark of tim ferriss. all rights reserved. privacy policy proudly powered by wordpress | hosted by pressable send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.