home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog jamie eason’s 30 day knockout total body workout march 10, 2014 by erin weiss 2 comments at lunch today i decided to try a workout that jamie eason recently created for fitnessrx.com. the workout is called jamie eason's 30 day knockout total body workout. see the full workout here. as always, i trust any workout that jamie eason comes up with. i had such great success with her livefit program (my results) that i figured i'd give this one a try too. i don't … [read more...] meet my new house! september 20, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments last night was a big day for me. i bought an investment property! how cute is this little house??? i plan on buying it and then renting it out. i'm so excited :) all this searching finally paid off. now let's just hope i can close on the house with no issues! we went out last night to celebrate a little. we ate at texas roadhouse and then had a couple … [read more...] motivational support january 18, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments happy friday!!! finally, the weekend is here! this week has been busy! ever since my feature on bodybuilding.com and the fact that my fitness idol, jamie eason, personally shared my story on her facebook page (!!!!!! yeah, i freaked out a lot when that happened...so exciting!!!!) i have received a ton of emails. i'm trying so hard to respond to every one of you quickly, … [read more...] monster meatloaf recipe july 30, 2012 by erin weiss 2 comments this is a must try recipe!!! this is a revised version of jamie eason's monster meatloaf from bodybuilding.com. it's so frickin' good!!! my boyfriend loved it too. he said it was one of his favorite clean foods i've ever made. if it passes the boyfriend test, then it must be good!!! ingredients: 5-oz package chopped onions ( i don't normally like onions but it … [read more...] lemon berry protein bars recipe april 30, 2012 by erin weiss 9 comments this weekend i made a fabulous protein bar recipe. i got the main recipe from jamie eason's livefit lemon protein bar recipe, but i tweaked it quite a bit. i like to call these lemon-berry protein bars. they are really good and help to fight off a sweet tooth! lemon berry protein bars recipe ingredients: 1 cup oat flour ( just mixed regular oats in my magic … [read more...] top fitness blog! march 7, 2012 by erin weiss 2 comments i'm so excited to announce that this blog was chosen as one of the top 10 fitness blogs in 2012 by breakingmuscle.com!!! there were over 100 blogs nominated (thanks to you guys, i was one of them). after they narrowed it down to the top 20, the website decided who should be the top 10 and i got chosen!!! it's so exciting that my blog is getting some recognition! thanks … [read more...] arnold classic 2012 march 5, 2012 by erin weiss 3 comments hey everyone!!! sorry i didn't update this weekend, but it was jam packed! some good...some bad... let's start with the bad... if you follow my facebook page, you probably heard the accident i had on friday night. i was waiting for the bf to get out of work around 8pm. after he got home we were going to head out to his home-town to spend the night so that we were an hour … [read more...] eating clean grocery list – approved foods list february 29, 2012 by erin weiss 156 comments eating clean grocery list - approved foods have you heard that you should be eating clean but don't know exactly what that means? while i have been trying to eat clean, i keep trying to figure out what is considered "clean" food. the main food i think of when i hear "clean eating" is chicken and veggies. thankfully, there are a lot more foods that are considered … [read more...] pages: 1 2 3 results post – end of jamie eason’s live fit trainer results january 18, 2012 by erin weiss 38 comments now that i've successfully completed the 12 week program, i'm so proud of myself. this is the first program that i've stuck with the whole way through. i can honestly say i'm very proud of myself and my results! i'll get right to the numbers. i measured myself last night after dinner (probably not the best idea because i was stuffed but i knew i wouldn't do it in the … [read more...] i finished jamie eason’s 12 week livefit trainer! january 16, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments i'm glad to finally report that i finished jamie eason's 12 week livefit trainer. i have never stuck with a workout plan for this long and i'm so proud of myself!! i completed day 82 - shoulders/cardio on friday after work. this workout took me 1:13 and i burned 631 calories. (the weight training took about 25 minutes and then i did 45 total minutes on the treadmill and … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in