skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about jamie my name is jamie spencer and i have spent the past 5 years building money making blogs. after growing tired of the 9-5, commuting and never seeing my family i decided that i wanted to make some changes and launched my first blog. since then i have launched lots of successful niche blogs and after selling my survivalist blog i decided to teach other people how to do the same. best online jobs guide 2020 – no more commuting to a job you hate! by jamie the allure of working and making money online at home is undeniable. a stressful, polluted commute, a long workday on the company’s schedule, and limited earning potential bring little joy to the average worker, who’d much rather be making their own schedule, diversifying their revenue streams, and enjoying more time to spend on the people … read morebest online jobs guide 2020 – no more commuting to a job you hate! categories business, make money online a guide to all the free vps – and nearly free ones by jamie if you’re looking for a web hosting option with a bit more control and flexibility than what you can get from typical hosting plans, vps is the way to go. vps stands for virtual private server. it strikes a nice balance between the affordability of shared hosting and the robust resources of dedicated hosting. these … read morea guide to all the free vps – and nearly free ones categories tech buying guides twitch stats for 2020 – interesting facts and figures about twitch.com by jamie if there’s one social media platform that has had the biggest impact on the gaming industry, it’s twitch. while youtube has also been a huge online money-maker for the industry, twitch has basically created an entirely new career. some of the biggest names on the platform are raking in millions of dollars a year! it’s … read moretwitch stats for 2020 – interesting facts and figures about twitch.com categories business, social facebook live stats – 2020 by jamie while facebook has been a powerhouse in the social media world for well over a decade, it wasn’t until recently that the platform began offering live streaming services. facebook live is a relatively new feature of the platform, but it has become incredibly popular among users and marketing professionals alike. facebook’s popularity has made it … read morefacebook live stats – 2020 categories social, business linkedin stats for 2020 by jamie originally founded in 2002, linkedin is a unique social networking platform that focuses on professionalism and business. while other sites are centered on uniting friends and family, linkedin is all about creating industry connections. it’s a place for working professionals to upload their resumes, network, search for job opportunities, and ultimately advance their careers. with … read morelinkedin stats for 2020 categories business, social small business stats for 2020 by jamie opening a small business, whether its an online business or offline, lets you be the boss. you can take a few days off work for vacation without worrying about what a supervisor might think and put all the money you make in the bank instead of giving it to someone else. budding entrepreneurs should look … read moresmall business stats for 2020 categories business the best email hosting providers for 2020 by jamie email is the cornerstone of modern digital communications. it offers a quick, easy, and professional way to communicate with others without having to deal with the hassles of snail mail. it’s particularly useful for small businesses looking to stay in touch with their clients and customer base. having the best email service is crucial in … read morethe best email hosting providers for 2020 categories tech buying guides best unlimited cloud storage solutions – 2020 by jamie when it comes to storage space for digital files and backups, you can never have enough. it’s impossible to plan for your future storage needs. as technology continues to advance, data files are only going to get bigger. while fixed cloud storage plans or free cloud storage services might be fine for now, you’re going … read morebest unlimited cloud storage solutions – 2020 categories tech buying guides the best free cloud backup storage solutions – 2020 by jamie while technology has come a long way in the last few decades, digital files are not immune to issues. data can get lost, corrupted, and deleted, leaving you with very little options for recovery. even the most advanced solid-state hard drive can experience problems that render your files useless. whether you run a business or … read morethe best free cloud backup storage solutions – 2020 categories tech buying guides how to start a vlog – step by step guide for 2020 by jamie youtube is not just a site for watching funny viral videos anymore. in the 15 years since the platform launched, it has become a digital powerhouse. it’s the second most visited website on the internet and is the second most popular search engine. youtube only comes second to google. vlogging, or video blogging, is a … read morehow to start a vlog – step by step guide for 2020 categories blogging how to make money on pinterest – for bloggers, business owners & beginners 2020 by jamie want to learn how to make money on pinterest? since you’re here, more than likely, your answer is yes. after all, you probably got here by searching for how to make money on pinterest or how do you make money on pinterest. am i right? you’ve also probably heard several online influencers and popular bloggers … read morehow to make money on pinterest – for bloggers, business owners & beginners 2020 categories make money online how many domains are there? – domain name stats for 2020 by jamie there are millions of websites floating around the web, but if you’re wondering how many domains are there, verisign is the go-to place for the latest domain name registration data. as the registry behind all .com and .net domains, verisign releases a quarterly report with updated info on the current state of the internet. here’s … read morehow many domains are there? – domain name stats for 2020 categories questions video marketing stats – 2020 – incredible facts about vlogging and video content marketing by jamie in the ever-changing world of digital marketing, video content continues to play a crucial role in gaining exposure and generating conversions. today, it’s one of the most effective parts of any digital marketing strategy. as technology advances and social media networks evolve, advertisers have more ways to interact with audiences than ever before. these days, … read morevideo marketing stats – 2020 – incredible facts about vlogging and video content marketing categories business shopify tutorial: how to quickly build a professional online store by jamie when the time comes to build your own online store, you’ll have your choice of ecommerce website builders and tools. one of the most popular and easy-to-use tools is shopify. it’s a subscription product that’s built for beginners who want to create their very first online store and start an online business. it’s very easy … read moreshopify tutorial: how to quickly build a professional online store categories web development the best internet search engines to use by jamie it’s almost impossible to remember a world before search engines existed. internet search engines enables you to make your blog or website visible to the world. whether you use your computer or phone, you can now pull up a browser or an app and find anything you want. each search engine uses its own algorithm, which … read morethe best internet search engines to use categories blog traffic post navigation older posts newer posts ← previous 1 2 3 … 19 next → best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub