skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about jamie my name is jamie spencer and i have spent the past 5 years building money making blogs. after growing tired of the 9-5, commuting and never seeing my family i decided that i wanted to make some changes and launched my first blog. since then i have launched lots of successful niche blogs and after selling my survivalist blog i decided to teach other people how to do the same. the science of posting on social media infographic by jamie knowing when your audience is active on social media can give you a serious advantage when it comes to gaining the maximum exposure for your updates. however updating your different social profiles too frequently or not often enough can mean your messages may never be seen by your followers. after analyzing case studies carried out … read morethe science of posting on social media infographic categories blog traffic, social learning to code – team treehouse review by jamie team treehouse is a fairly new entrant in the field of online coding skills courses. the goal of team treehouse is to provide a learning environment for people to learn about coding, with a focus on web development tools and languages. team treehouse is building connections to companies that are looking to hire developers and … read morelearning to code – team treehouse review categories web development 2015 chinese social media statistics and trends infographic by jamie social media usage continues to grow across the world, and china is no exception. with an internet user population of 650 million (nearly twice the population of the entire u.s.) and censorship laws that prohibit those consumers from participating in the social networks that dominate the rest of the world in popularity, china did the … read more2015 chinese social media statistics and trends infographic categories blog traffic, social the history of the internet search engine – infographic by jamie from 1990 to 2015, the complete history of search engines in one awesome infographic! the search engines of today are a gps on the information super highway. billions of webpages are categorized, indexed, and interpreted by complex algorithms that help connect the user with the information they are looking for. the search engine algorithms must … read morethe history of the internet search engine – infographic categories blog traffic post navigation newer posts ← previous 1 … 18 19 best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub