home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox food and drink product reviews prevnext january 2019 degustabox review leyla preston mon 11th feb 2019 3shares share tweet pin another great month of delicious edible goodies from degustabox, which features the following brands this month yes! fruit and nut bar liobites freeze dried strawberry crisps & apple crisps willy’s apple cider vinegar pipers crispeas matar paneer miso tasty original ramen noodle kit ryvita protein red quinoa & sesame pbfit peanut butter powder pick up! milk chocolate hartley’s 10 cal jelly pots kallo corn cakes & lightly salted organic rice cakes here is the link to the full background of the degustabox and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degustabox-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degustabox/ but, for a quick recap, degustabox is an online retail service that provides a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. but lucky customers like yourself will receive a £7.99 discount when signing up for your first degustabox by inserting discount code bldeg15 at the checkout. products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degustabox here: http://bit.ly/dbhomepage. you can stay updated via degustabox’s social networks too: facebook – http://bit.ly/dbukfacebook twitter – http://bit.ly/dbuktwitter instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers can receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degustabox has recently introduced db discoveries to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: what’s in january 2019’s degustabox? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degustabox below: products yes! fruit and nut bar – £1.20 liobites freeze dried apple crisps – £1.50 willy’s apple cider vinegar – £2.95 pipers crispeas matar paneer – £1 miso tasty original ramen noodle kit – £3.50 ryvita protein red quinoa & sesame – £1.59 pbfit peanut butter powder – £0.75 pick up! milk chocolate – £1.69 hartley’s 10 cal jelly pots – £0.75 kallo corn cakes & lightly salted organic rice cakes – £1.30 what did i like most about january 2019’s degustabox? rating: reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (8 years old) aidan (6 years old) what’s in january 2019’s degustabox? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degustabox below: products yes! fruit and nut bar – £1.20 “yes! snack bars are delicious, wholesome and perfect for snacking on the go. our fruit bars contain no added sugar (besides naturally occurring sugars), and are 1 of your 5 a day! our nut bars contain 5g of sugar and are a source of protein!” our opinion – these snack bars are absolutely delicious and taste so nutty and gorgeous. they’re not too sweet, and have a very natural filling. my favourite is the delightful coffee, dark choc and cherry nut bar because it reminded me a little of a healthy blackforest gateau which is my favourite cake ever! 5/5 liobites freeze dried apple crisps – £1.50 “liobites are healthy fruit crisps for the whole family to enjoy. we pick fresh fruit in season and freeze-dry it to create delicious liobites – full of flavour, vitamins and antioxidants. liobites range includes apple, strawberry and banana crisps. 1 pack of liobites crisps counts as 1 of 5 a day.” our opinion – these apple crisps are great for snack time for the kids and taste like crispy, tangy apples. the kids loved them! 4/5 willy’s apple cider vinegar – £2.95 “willy’s acv starts life amongst the 200 acres of pristine orchards in the beautiful herefordshire countryside. from apple to bottle willy’s acv provides you with your daily dose of probiotic goodness. our raw and unpasteurised acv contains the mother and is sustainable and recyclable.” our opinion – apple cider vinegar is a fantastic little invention. acv can maintain your ph levels and aid digestion, and if you can drink acv, it can help to lower blood sugar levels too. but, not just that, you can use it to soothe a sore throat, add it to salads as a vinaigrette, preserve food, use as a deodoriser, make an all-purpose cleaner, use as a facial toner, boil better eggs, wash fruit and veg, use as a marinade, use as dandruff treatment for hair, use in homemade cakes and sweet treats, and many, many more! so, willy’s acv is actually not big enough to utilise in the way that i want to use it! it’s one of the most useful staples in your cupboard and well worth buying it! 5/5 pipers crispeas matar paneer – £1 “for a tasty, low calorie, vegetarian snack look no further than pipers crispeas. crispeas are a fresh take on the british pea, offering protein, fibre and only 91kcal per pack. as you’d expect from pipers, matar paneer crispeas offer bold indian flavours in a gluten-free, wheat-free and barley-free snack.” our opinion –these are quite a punchy crispy pea flavour snacks which have a curry taste and are full of indian spice. the boys really enjoyed it, and i was surprised that they did because they’re not into crisps with too much flavour. so i’m happy they enjoyed a healthier form of crunchy snack, and i’d be happy to try this again. 4/5 miso tasty original ramen noodle kit – £3.50 “miso tasty’s take on the classic japanese dish hailed as one of japan’s top inventions – the ramen noodle! with non-friend noodles, it is a comforting meal with a light base from our signature miso. includes sesame oils and toasted sesame seeds for extra flavour. simply add your own toppings!” our opinion – this original ramen noodle meal kit is a great piece of kit, and the flavours were rich and full of flavour. the pack says to boil noodles in a pot, but i microwaved them, and they came out just as well. add some broccoli, green beans and chuck in some peanuts, and you’ve got yourself a lovely pot of ramen noodles! 4/5 ryvita protein red quinoa & sesame – £1.59 “we hope you enjoy new ryvita protein. every crunchy slice is baked with pea protein & rye, making them high in protein, high in fibre & suitable for vegans. try with hummus & your favourite veg for an easy protein-packed lunch. available in the crackers aisle of all good supermarkets.” our opinion – i love these vegan ryvita snacks, which are high in protein and fibre. i love adding homemade hummus with cucumber and spinach or dairy-free yoghurt with berries and a layer of fruit compote. whatever you want, these ryvita crackers will complement almost anything! i will definitely be buying again. 5/5 pbfit peanut butter powder – £0.75 “pbfit is everything you love about peanut butter, made better. whole-roasted peanuts, pressed to perfection, means pbfit contains up to 90% less fat than traditional peanut butter, and about 1/3 the calories. great in smoothies, shakes, baking and more. *this product is only available for purchase in the usa 225g tub of pbfit is available in the uk in asda, sainsbury’s, amazon, morrison’s, ocado, lakeland & more.” our opinion – i love peanut butter so much, i can sometimes go through half a jar in one sitting! so, when i find a much healthier version, i jump at the chance! pbfit comes in powder form, so you just add water and you have yourself a peanut butter in whatever consistency you fancy. if you want it creamier, just add more water, if you want a denser peanut butter spread, add less. i’m impressed that i still tasted a bit of sweetness in this peanut butter even though it has much less sugar than some store-bought peanut butter jars. i enjoy peanut butter on everything, but my favourite is with tortilla or lettuce wraps and all the fruit and veg i can muster! 5/5 pick up! milk chocolate – £1.69 “pick up! bars by bahlsen are a delicious combination of a thick and smooth milk chocolate slab, sandwiched between two crunchy biscuits. bahlsen’s pick up! biscuits, bahlsen’s pick up! biscuits are perfect for snacking on-the-go due to their individual wrapping, and are great to pick you up whenever you need a treat!” our opinion – we are definite bahlsen fans in this family and love that this biscuit is essentially a chocolate sandwich. they are so moreish too, so five bars is just not enough in one pack! 5/5 hartley’s 10 cal jelly pots – £0.75 “hartley’s 10 cal jelly pots in a fabulous dessert-inspired flavours. these puds are perfect for an after sweet dinner treat, and with fewer than 10 calories per jelly pot they are ideal for avoiding any new year resolution diet wobbles!” our opinion– the boys love jelly, and it was nice to see such decadent flavours as black forest gateau and lemon cheesecake. i sneaked in a taste, and they were lovely and not too sweet. i didn’t really taste the black forest gateau, but i definitely tasted the lemon cheesecake infusion! 3.5/5 kallo corn cakes & lightly salted organic rice cakes – £1.30 “kallo’s range of rice and corn cakes provide the perfect new year snacks to get you back on track. at only 30 calories per cake, less than 3% fat and all gluten free they make the perfect base for a delicious topping!” our opinion – i love these rice cakes, they are so versatile and, like the ryvita, i can add pretty much any topping. and it’s great that kallo has lentil cakes which is packed with more protein, so they fill you up for longer. i would definitely keep stock of these in the cupboard for the boys when they’re hungry. 5/5 what did i like most about january 2019’s degustabox? such great products this month, but my favourites have to be the kallo rice and lentil cakes because they are so versatile and you can get tons in a pack, so they last for a little while longer than some of the other products (not so long in our house when the boys are around though!) rating: 5 out of 5 – such a great selection of products in this month’s box – you’ve got a great variety of healthy products which are perfect for kids and, of course, the pick up! biscuits if you’re feeling indulgent. very impressive box, keep it up degustabox! leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:food box related posts january 2018 degustabox review august 2014 – degustabox product r... january 2016 – degustabox product ... august 2017 degustabox review june 2014 – degustabox product rev... may 2019 brunch and afternoon tea degust... march 2016 – degustabox product re... october 2014 – degustabox product review... may 2014 – degustabox product revi... april 2017 degustabox review may 2016 – degustabox food box – product... february 2020 degusta box review – easte... december 2017 degustabox review february 2015 – degustabox product... degustabox review plus competition/givea... june 2015 – picnic degustabox product re... march 2015 – degustabox product re... may picnic 2017 degustabox review august 2016 degustabox review october 2017 degustabox review november 2017 degustabox review november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... july 2016 – degustabox review june 2017 bbq degustabox review july summer 2017 degustabox review may 2018 degustabox ‘world cup’ product ... january healthy box 2015 – degusta... september 2014 – degustabox produc... september 2015 – degustabox produc... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 3shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok