home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox food and drink product reviews prevnext january 2018 degustabox review leyla preston thu 22nd feb 2018 2shares share tweet pin another great month of delicious edible goodies from degustabox, which features the following brands this month: wild planet foods albacore wild tuna steaks – no salt added latin american kitchen by santa maria – chipotle mayo topping latin american kitchen by santa maria – crunchy chicken bites seasoned corn coating lighterlife fast – ready to drink shakes mahtay – yerba mate sparkling tea pulsin – vanilla choc chip protein booster pulsin – vanilla whey natural protein powder miso tasty – spicy ramen noodle kit robinsons – fruit cordial mallow & marsh – coconut marshmallow bar explore cuisine – organic edamame & mung bean fettuccine hershey’s – cookies ‘n’ crème 5 pack snack pack clipper – everyday organic tea jordans – juicy red berry frusli bars here is the link to the full background of the degustabox and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degustabox-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degustabox/ but, for a quick recap, degustabox is an online retail service that offers a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. but lucky customers like yourself will receive a £7.99 discount when signing up for your first degustabox by inserting discount code bldeg15 at the checkout. products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degustabox here: http://bit.ly/dbhomepage. you can stay updated via degustabox’s social networks too: facebook – http://bit.ly/dbukfacebook twitter – http://bit.ly/dbuktwitter instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers can receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degustabox has recently introduced db discoveries to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: what’s in january 2018’s degustabox? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degustabox below: products wild planet foods – albacore wild tuna steaks – no salt added latin american kitchen by santa maria – chipotle mayo topping latin american kitchen by santa maria – crunchy chicken bites seasoned corn coating lighterlife fast – ready to drink shakes mahtay – yerba mate sparkling tea pulsin – vanilla choc chip protein booster pulsin vanilla whey natural protein powder miso tasty – spicy ramen noodle kit robinsons fruit cordial mallow & marsh – coconut marshmallow bar explore cuisine – organic edamame & mung bean fettuccine hershey’s cookies ‘n’ crème 5 pack snack pack clipper – everyday organic tea jordans juice red berry frusli bars what did i like most about january 2018’s degustabox? rating: reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (7 years old) aidan (5 years old) what’s in january 2018’s degustabox? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degustabox below: [youtube video coming shortly] products wild planet foods – albacore wild tuna steaks – no salt added “ranked #1 in the us by greenpeace for sustainability, pole and line caught wild planet albacore wild tuna – no salt added is firm in texture with a rich, clean taste. remarkably delicious any way you enjoy tuna – in a classic sandwich, atop a salad, mixed into your favourite recipe. our tuna is hand cut and hand packed — there is no added water, broth, oil or fillers. cooked just once to retain all of the natural juices, wild planet tuna is rich in omega 3 — simply mix the juices back into the tuna for added flavour and nutrition. a wild planet tuna sandwich just may be the best you’ve ever tasted! wild planet foods wild planet foods wild planet foods www.wildplanetfoods.co.uk“ our opinion – as i am following a plant-based diet, i didn’t try this tuna. but i did add it to a pasta bake and the kids chomped the whole thing up. when asking them what they thought, they replied that the tuna pasta bake was “nice”, which wasn’t helpful in terms of critique. i would say that the tuna was quite pink in the can, and i don’t know if that means it’s just a healthier version of the tinned tuna we used to buy, but it did look meatier. also, the lack of juices is definitely noticeable, but that just meant that i didn’t have to drain the can before use, and i shaved a few minutes off my time. 3.5/5 latin american kitchen by santa maria – chipotle mayo topping “creamy, hot & smoky. the chipotle mayo topping makes a great addition to any of our latin american kitchen range. santa maria santa maria latin american kitchen by santa maria“ our opinion – my husband has put this sauce on everything: his eggs, his salad, his chips – everything. i haven’t tried it myself, but judging by how quickly this bottle was depleted, i can imagine it tastes pretty good. hubby says you can liken this sauce to a smoky mayo, which adds a bit of heat to your food. so, it’s a great addition for that extra bit of flavour. he wants to try it in a burger next! 4/5 latin american kitchen by santa maria – crunchy chicken bites seasoned corn coating “a mild blend for light, oven-baked, crunchy bites. use our simple blend to make delicious colombian-inspired crunchy chicken bites in your oven. we use corn, instead of wheat, to get that extra crispiness which is loved by adults and kids alike, making it perfect for a family night in. santa maria santa maria latin american kitchen by santa maria“ our opinion – we didn’t try this seasoning on chicken bites. instead, i got a little creative and made little veggie bites (which i lost the images for, so i can’t show you – d’oh!) and they came out delicious! so, you don’t need to just use this sauce on meat bites, use it on chips, veggie burgers and even roasted vegetables – it tastes great and there’s no spice, so the kids will like it too. 4/5 lighterlife fast – ready to drink shakes “the diet that works around you! 2 days each week replace all of your meals with 4 lighterlife fast products (available exclusively from superdrug and superdrug.com). these delicious ready to drink shakes can be enjoyed as part of the fast plan, as a quick protein hit or meal replacement. for more information and to register for the free lighterlife fast plan go to www.lighterlifefast.com. lighterlife fast lighterlife fast lighterlife fast www.lighterlifefast.com“ our opinion – i am surprised to hear that these drinks are allowed when you’re dieting because they taste so sweet and rich (hubby’s words as i didn’t try these), that he would liken them to a mcdonald’s milkshake (of course, they are healthier though). the boys loved the vanilla velvet flavour the most, but i wasn’t surprised when they could only manage a glass full each – it’s that thick and creamy! the sugar level is still high, so i can’t imagine it’s super healthy to replace all your meals with these shakes – but once in a while it works to give you that nice protein hit. 4/5 mahtay – yerba mate sparkling tea “mahtay is a lightly sparkling drink that was designed with today’s busy, health-conscious lifestyle in mind. it blends the ancient energy-giving properties of south american yerba mate with coconut water and açaí berries to deliver refreshing taste, natural energy and supportive health benefits in every drop. just 45 calories per 300ml bottle. yerba mate sparkling tea yerba mate sparkling tea yerba mate sparkling tea www.mahtay.co.uk“ our opinion – well, mahtay is definitely a light sparkling drink – it tastes like fizzy water, which is not my thing. hubby, however, enjoys the taste of sparkling water, so he pleasantly drank this light coconut water and acai berry infusion. the kids turned their nose up instantly, so not a first choice in our family i’m afraid. 2.5/5 pulsin – vanilla choc chip protein booster “looking for a scrumptious bar with a boost of protein? then snack a pulsin vanilla choc chip protein booster! with a cookie dough taste and texture, plenty of dairy free choc chips and packing 13g of plant based protein it’s a healthy and filling snack. pulsin pulsin pulsin www.pulsin.co.uk“ our opinion – this protein bar is a very rich and thick texture (a bit like cookie dough), but it’s not super sweet, which is great. plus, it’s vegan (yay!) and includes dairy free choc chips. after a workout, this is brilliant – i really felt like the protein bar gave me a real boost afterwards. the fact that it’s plant-based makes it a 5/5 in my eyes. a winner for me. 5/5 pulsin vanilla whey natural protein powder “the new vanilla whey protein owder is rich in essential amino acids and high in calcium which is vital for muscles and bones. with 22g of protein per 25g serving, the natural powder is vegetarian, low fat, made using hormone-free milk from uk grass-fed cows and has no added sugar. the powder can be added to a milk of choice or water to create a handy and healthy protein shake. it can also be added to other recipes such as smoothies and breakfast bowls to provide a protein boost. it is available in 25g single-serve sachets and 250g pouches. pulsin pulsin pulsin www.pulsin.co.uk“ our opinion – it’s clear that pulsin care about where they source their food from, as this protein powder is made from hormone-free milk from uk grass-fed cows. so, they’re thinking about the environment. however, unlike their awesome plant-based protein bars, this whey protein shake isn’t vegan-friendly and so i can’t enjoy it. i like the idea that you just grab one of these packets and add to your milk or water after a workout, but it’d be great to find a plant-based version so i can give it a go myself. (hint hint!) 3.5/5 miso tasty – spicy ramen noodle kit “miso tasty ramen noodle kits are perfect for tasty and easy mealtimes. a true cupboard lifesaver! our noodles are accompanied by our signature miso soup base plus a seaweed garnish for an authentic experience. this spicy flavour provides a warming, zesty base for a quick noodle meal that famously hails from sapporo, japan. simply add your own toppings! •made from dried, not fried noodles •100% natural – free from msg and additives •suitable for vegetarians •easy meal in 10 minutes •serves 1-2 *this product wasn’t included in all boxes. either this product or tabasco sauce or mallow & marsh was included. miso tasty miso tasty miso tasty www.misotasty.com“ our opinion – these were not spicy at all and really quite delicious. so simple to make, you literally just add the noodles to whatever you are making (i added it to my veggie stir fry (cabbage, carrots etc) and then the 2 packets of miso paste and spice & seaweed garnishes, which subtly enhanced the flavour of my veggies. the noodles brought an extra punch too and made for a much more filling meal 4.5/5 robinsons fruit cordial “robinsons most sophisticated squash yet. new, robinsons fruit cordials is a sophisticated twist to squash with combinations of real fruit and botanical flavours. contained in a glass bottle, fruit cordial is a new more concentrated way to bring a burst of robinsons’ flavour to the dinner table. *one of three flavours was included in each degustabox. robinsons fruit cordial robinsons fruit cordial robinsons fruit cordial www.robinsonssquash.co.uk“ our opinion – we are not big squash/cordial drinkers in the house, so it really does feel like a luxury when we get the chance to sweeten our water. the packaging is a lot fancier than it was when i was growing up and we got to choose from blackcurrant, apple and orange most times. this time we have a more sophisticated raspberry, rhubarb and pressed orange, which tasted pleasant and refreshing. a little goes a long way in our house, so this bottle lasted for ages. 4/5 mallow & marsh – coconut marshmallow bar “a coconut marshmallow bar that is 100% melt in your mouth gooey deliciousness. these mallow & marsh bars are handmade in england using only natural ingredients and they are under 100 calories each. *this product wasn’t included in all boxes. either this product or tabasco sauce or miso tasty soup was included. mallow & marsh mallow & marsh mallow & marsh mallow & marsh“ our opinion – this marshmallow bar is exactly how you would think a marshmallow bar would taste – gooey, sticky, thick and very decadent! the addition of the desiccated coconut, enhanced the flavour slightly from sugar to coconut sugar and, although, i didn’t try this, the boys really enjoyed these messy little bars (which are a bugger to split into two…) can’t believe that each bar is under 100 calories only! 3.5/5 explore cuisine – organic edamame & mung bean fettuccine “explore cuisine original range of pastas were developed by our founder who was searching for a protein rich alternative to traditional spaghetti. the result was a bean powered pasta that is great in taste and texture and provides our highest amount of plant-based protein and fibre per serving with the lowest level of carbohydrates. our edamame & mung bean fettuccine contains 22 g of protein per 50 g serving, almost 3 x more than regular pasta. explore cuisine www.explorecuisine.com“ our opinion – this organic edamame & mung bean fettuccine was brilliant – totally vegan and super high in protein! it’s such a nice and healthy protein-rich alternative to spaghetti and i’m super surprised at how filling it was too – all from plants! i’m a fan 5/5 hershey’s cookies ‘n’ crème 5 pack snack pack “hershey’s cookies ‘n’ creme candy bars are a unique twist on a classic flavor combination. enjoy crunchy chocolate cookies and smooth white creme in each delicious bite. www.hersheys.com“ our opinion – gutted that i wasn’t able to try these, but these really were a nice treat for the boys. upon asking a lot of questions, the boys agreed that they could taste cookies and cream and that the bars weren’t too sweet (maybe they were just saying that for my benefit). my little one doesn’t have that much of a sweet tooth, so he will generally try sweet treats and then put the rest down. he got to two-thirds of the bar before he gave the rest to his brother, so, to me that means it’s quite sweet and, therefore, high in sugar! a nice treat once in a while though 4/5 clipper – everyday organic tea “a beautifully rich, full-bodied black tea blend from some of the world’s finest organic tea gardens. all our organic products are grown in a way that preserves the natural balance of the environment and we were the first tea company to use unbleached tea bags! clipper products are made with pure, natural ingredients and a clear conscience. *a sample size product was included in the degustabox. the full-sized version can be purchased at £3.69 for a box of 100 teabags. facebook – clipper – clipper everyday organic tea twitter – clipper – clipper everyday organic tea www.clipper-teas.com“ our opinion – at first, i had to doubletake because i have clipper green tea at home and the packages are almost identical! i kept forgetting that this clipper organic tea was black tea and i ended up reaching for my pg tips. however, i soon ran out of the pg tips and, as i was about to buy some more, i remembered these clipper organic black teas. they are lovely – absolutely rich and full-bodied as it says on the packaging. and, i’m not a tea connoisseur, but i can taste that these are organic too. they just taste cleaner and more natural. 5/5 jordans juice red berry frusli bars “jordans juicy red berries frusli bar: handfuls of zingy cranberries and raisins, all mixed up with british wholegrain oaty awesomeness. www.jordanscereals.co.uk“ our opinion – these are nice. i mean, they contain a lot of berries and wholegrain oats and together they make a nice bar. but, there really isn’t much to say. i think the sugar level is higher than it should be and i could probably make these myself quite easily. but, apart from that, they’re a nice snack to have in the bag if you’re out and about. they’re a healthier option than the hershey’s for sure! 3.5/5 what did i like most about january 2018’s degustabox? i absolutely loved three of the items in this month’s degustabox – the organic clipper tea, the pulsin plant-based protein bar and the edamame and mung bean fettuccine. i would buy all three of these again because i would use them to the death! more plant-based products pretty please degustabox! rating: 4 out of 5 – a great varied selection of products this time and i loved the fact that more emphasis was based on healthier alternatives, rather than naughty treats. more plant-based items would be great, just as a healthier alternative to dairy/meat products and to encourage people to try plant-based every once in a while, to pack in those nutrients – and to broaden the palate of course! never miss a new post! don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:clipperdegustaboxexplore cuisinefood boxfood deliveryhershey'sjordanslatin american kitchen by santa marialighterlife fastmahtaymallow & marshmiso tastypulsinrobinsonswild planet foods related posts january 2019 degustabox review may 2018 degustabox ‘world cup’ product ... december 2017 degustabox review may 2019 brunch and afternoon tea degust... april 2017 degustabox review november 2017 degustabox review june 2015 – picnic degustabox product re... june 2019 summer and bbq degusta box rev... december 2018 degustabox review july 2016 – degustabox review february 2015 – degustabox product... degustabox review plus competition/givea... january healthy box 2015 – degusta... april 2014 – degustabox product re... march 2016 – degustabox product re... august 2017 degustabox review august 2014 – degustabox product r... chocolate lemon mousse with a blackberry... october 2017 degustabox review june 2014 – degustabox product rev... bengal chicken curry february 2020 degusta box review – easte... november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... october 2014 – degustabox product review... april 2019 ‘best of british’ degusta box... january 2016 – degustabox product ... may picnic 2017 degustabox review may 2014 – degustabox product revi... september 2015 – degustabox produc... may 2016 – degustabox food box – product... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 2shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok