petite anglaise january 31, 2007 bride filed under: tadpole rearing, tadpole says — petiteanglaiseparis @ 10:12 pm i glance anxiously at my watch. it is 8.27. school drop-off time is between 8.20 and 8.30, and the small but perfectly formed tantrum tadpole threw just as we were poised to leave the flat – when i so foolishly dared to insist she wear a scarf to ward off the biting cold – has cost us dearly. if we don’t get a move on, i will be one of the latecomers, those wretched folk who scuttle past the directrice, head down, shoulders hunched, to escape the full force of her withering stare. i quicken my pace, and tadpole breaks from a trot into a canter in order to keep up with me. but when we reach the slightly surreal chinese shop which sells wedding dresses and ball gowns which wouldn’t look out of place at a jordan and peter andré wedding, tadpole grinds to a stubborn halt. “look mummy! princess dresses!” she tears her hand free from my grip and gestures excitedly at the window display. a particularly unattractive frothy pistachio number catches my eye and causes me to shudder, involuntarily. “i like the white ones better,” i say, pointing towards something marginally more tasteful. “those dresses are for weddings. just like in the little mermaid, you remember, when ariel marries her prince?” tadpole nods. “yes, i know mummy.” this is her new favourite phrase, designed to shame me into silence if i over-explain things in a patronising tone, and terriblement efficace. i grab her hand and we hurry on. i dare not look at my watch. i’m simply banking on the fact that it may be one minute fast. “when i’m a big lady,” tadpole says suddenly, “just after my tooth gets wobbly, i’m going to marry a prince as well.” she has a slight obsession with wobbling teeth at the moment, courtesy of a charlie and lola episode entitled “my wobbly tooth must not ever never fall out”. i have assured her that there will be no wobbling before she is six years old, but she seems to have decided that grown up teeth equals adulthood. “hmm. maybe a little while after your teeth start wobbling, but yes, i’m sure you’ll get married in a pretty dress one day,” i say brightly, although i feel like i’m sucking on lemons. “yes, i’m going to marry a prince. daddy is my prince,” she says with absolute certitude. will someone who, unlike me, actually reads all those parenting manuals and knows about the phases little girls go through be kind enough to reassure me that this is a perfectly normal phase? please? comments (93) january 29, 2007 solo filed under: single life — petiteanglaiseparis @ 9:29 pm the last time i decided to take myself off on holiday alone was almost a decade ago. in the summer which intervened between my two years of “teaching” english conversation classes as a lectrice, i found myself in the enviable position of having a three month paid holiday to fill, somehow. none of my friends were at a loose end, so i decided to go it alone. with the wonderful routard as my guide, i started at avignon and worked my way westwards towards the spanish border, staying in cheap hotels and youth hostels in nîmes, montpellier and perpignan, alternating budget restaurants and ravioli from a can, getting from a to b by bus and train. in those days, the routard rated towns of interest with a helpful number of stars, and i made a point of visiting every place i could get to without a car, and was rarely disappointed. i saw jousting in sète, fell of a rented bicycle into a ditch just outside nîmes (due to a tragic combination of sunstroke, oversized bike and too-short legs) and ate fresh anchovies in tapas bar in coliloure. at the end of my three week tour i went to stay with a british couple, george and sylvia, friends of a fellow lecteur, who had chosen to retire in the countryside north of narbonne and were happy to put me up in exchange for doing a few odd jobs around their house and keeping them company. my favourite memory of that holiday is of the day when george drove me out to a vineyard to buy the cheap local red which he drank with every meal. on the way back to the village he took a turning i hadn’t noticed before, a narrow track which snaked through the vines, bringing us out on top of a hill from which we could survey the surrounding countryside. “there’s something i thought you might like to see,” said george, parking the car and leading me slowly, painfully to the north side of the hill, leaning heavily on his walking stick. he had a bad leg, and it occurred to me that he was probably over stretching himself. i followed him, squinting into the sun, thinking that the view was pretty, but not spectacular enough to warrant his trouble until i saw what he was pointing at, and stopped dead in my tracks. from our elevated vantage point the foundations of an immense roman villa, invisible at ground level, were laid out in front of us. the main road almost clipped the outer wall, but without my guide, the vines would have had no trouble keeping their secret. “i knew you’d like it,” he said, pleased as punch when he heard my sharp intake of breath. “after you told me about visiting the amphitheatres, the ruins near nîmes. i knew you’d appreciate this.” he was not wrong. ten years later, i found myself once more in the enviable position of having the wherewithal to go away, and the time to do it. tadpole will be staying with her french grandparents for ten days in february, and as i haven’t been on holiday (trips to see my parents or friends notwithstanding) since the damp and disappointing week i spent in morbihan, brittany with mr frog in august 2005, i decided to seize the opportunity. it shouldn’t be too difficult to find some winter sun without breaking the bank, i thought to myself, scrolling through the destinations on lastminute and anyway, clicking merrily through the special offer links on promovacances. but my mounting excitement was soon tempered by a feeling of indignant despair, as i saw that not only did most operators charge a hefty supplement for single occupancy of a double room, but in some cases they simply weren’t prepared to let a solo traveller book a room during the school holiday peak period, full stop. it seemed i had stumbled on yet another of those “reasons why couples look so smug”, and it irked me no end. after much dispirited sighing and surfing in ever decreasing circles, i finally found my solution (and it wasn’t a holiday site for singles, although i almost considered it). no, the solution was simply to eschew packages and book the hotels myself, often finding single rooms, and never paying a supplement. i’ll be flying off to marrakech for five days in late february, staying three nights there, and two by the coast in two gorgeous riad hotels. my bags filled with books to read on the roof decks, i’ll take a few guided tours, do a spot of haggling, eat tajine and drink litres of fresh mint tea. and by some bizarre twist of fate, guess who i’ll be meeting for dinner on the first night there? comments (81) january 25, 2007 gym filed under: misc — petiteanglaiseparis @ 7:49 pm once upon a time i had a schoolfriend who was incapable of eating bananas in public without first breaking them into small pieces with her fingers. i remembered that rather random fact today when describing my antics in the club med gym (which i still call the gymnase club, because i’m old school, me, and set in my ways) to a friend over lunch. “so, how often do you actually go?” she asked, picking at the huge slice of apple crumble she’d ordered. i nursed my espresso, feeling virtuous for turning down dessert, but also rather jealous. “oh, three times a week at the moment while i ease into the routine,” i replied. “then i’ll see if i can bear to go more often, maybe take some classes.” “bear to go more often?” “well yes, it’s not exactly a pleasure. more a necessity. i’ve always been rather anti-sport, as you know…” anti-sport may be something of an understatement. i haven’t changed much since i vowed never to enter the sports hall at sixth form college. or university. the rubbery odour of a sports shop is enough to make me wrinkle my nose in distaste, so crossing the threshold of the club med changing rooms requires a supreme effort of will. the only thing which makes the whole entreprise remotely bearable is my latest purchase: a tiny, clippy ipod shuffle, which makes it possible for me to block out my surroundings and lose myself in electronica while i cross country ski or climb seventy flights of stairs. “the worst thing,” i confided, “is cleaning off the machines after you’ve used them.” unable to restrain myself any longer, i seized my coffee spoon and stole a mouthful of crumble with crème anglaise. my friend looked rather puzzled. “but surely it’s your sweat you are wiping?” “yes, but that’s not the problem” i said, setting down my spoon so i could mime the cleaning action with my right hand. imagine, if you will, a petite anglaise who has just finished her fifteen minutes on the stepper machine. not just any stepper machine mind, but the one directly located under an air conditioning vent, my machine of choice. for some reason, french girls who go to the gym never break a sweat and rarely turn an attractive shade of beetroot, like i am wont to do. in order to blend in better, and draw fewer horrified stares, i always try to work out in the coolest part of the room. by my side a lithe young man in tight shorts is hard at it. something about his zeal for butt tightening and his choice of attire makes me think that it may not be for the benefit of a lady. unless of course he is one those meetic boys who likes to claim that his most attractive attributes are “ses fesses”. he watches as i dismount and stagger over to the paper towel dispenser a few metres away, squirt some white, slightly opaque soap onto the tissue, and proceed to clean the first handle, gripping its girth firmly within my open palm and sliding the lubricated tissue up and down. it suddenly occurs to me how this looks, and when i move on to the second handle i find it impossible not to smirk as i rub. the fact that my ipod has just opted for an explicit little track by “peaches” has tipped me over the edge. disposing of my spent paper towel, i return to grab my tap water-filled evian bottle and my decidedly unluxurious club med towel, turning to face my audience as i do so. “it’s all in the wrist action,” i say, with a smile, before turning on my heel and heading off in the direction of the showers. comments (59) vote wisely! filed under: misc — petiteanglaiseparis @ 7:38 pm while i am puzzled not to see the likes of the lovely and very talented anna boat or the side-splittingly funny and rather dashing jonnyb in the british category, and let’s be honest, a little disappointed not to make the shortlist myself, i would ask you to step this way and consider casting your vote for: best european blog: le blagueur à paris. this is my best friend and partner in crime meg – she of the can of beer concealed in pantyhose incident – and her blog is both wickedly funny and terrifyingly well written. best uk blog: a beautiful revolution. another very good friend of mine, amazingly talented bloke. he doodles! he writes! he takes very pretty photos! he gets a bit melancholy sometimes, too, so you never know, your votes might even cheer him up. comments (11) older posts » search for: about books press fbk potted petite prologue burned null and void part time mummy baggage singing in tongues eleven days later semi-detached suspendered sunday archives january 2011 november 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 august 2004 july 2004 categories adoption book stuff city of light french touch good time girl knocked up knot tying miam mills & boon misc missing blighty navel gazing on the road parting ways single life tadpole rearing tadpole says tadpole sings uncategorized working girl stats 638 posts 27,981 comments © catherine sanderson 2004-2009 blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel