barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up answers japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest naomi rogers writer shares share tweet pin welcome to the barkpost guide to dog breeds where we belly flop straight into the depths of dog breed origin, evolution, and purpose. follow along each week as we publish new guides that highlight the strangest, most interesting, and most surprising stuff about these creatures who have been our best buds the last 30,000 years. table of contents intro / overview also known as… origins size weight range personality intelligence / trainability best training techniques for japanese spitz ideal environment good for families and kids? average lifespan health energy friendly with…(dogs? strangers? cats/other pets?) coat & grooming quirks toys japanese spitz would like best recommended diet or supplements recommended products notable rescues to find the spitz of your dreams notable instagram japanese spitz intro / overview (all dogs are individuals, which means any single dog from any breed can be any number of ways, both good and not so good. keep that in mind as we discuss breed generalities!) the japanese spitz is an energetic little pooch that loves to run and play. they are very silly, and delight in making their humans laugh. intelligent and eager to learn, spitzes always appear to be smiling. despite their long, luxurious coats, these dogs are low maintenance and not afraid to get dirty. whether lounging around the house, romping on the beach, or going for a strenuous hike, the loyal, lovable spitz is happy just to be by your side! also known as… spitz. “if a beautiful snowflake transformed into a breed of dog, it would be a japanese spitz!” origins as their name suggests, the japanese spitz has its roots in japan. however, their ancestors likely hail from germany. the german spitz made its way to japan via siberia and china in the 1920s. the german spitz is slightly larger than its japanese descendants with a similar coat that comes in a variety of colors including white, black, cream, gold, black and tan, sable, and chocolate brown. they are thought to be one of the most ancient dog breeds, tracing their origins back to the 1450s when they served as watchdogs. unfortunately, the early records of the japanese spitz were destroyed in world war ii leaving the full history of the breed a mystery. we do know that the japanese spitz appeared at a tokyo dog show in 1921, and that two white spitz were imported from canada in 1925. the japan kennel club officially recognized the japanese spitz in 1948. size 12 – 15 inches. weight range 10 – 25 pounds. personality the japanese spitz is the little comedian of the canine world. they are loyal to a fault and their perpetual smile makes it impossible to be in a bad mood! they are incredibly affectionate towards family, children, other dogs, and even cats. however, the spitz is very protective of those he loves and may not be as tolerant of strangers. intelligence / trainability the spitz is intelligent and easy to train thanks to their strong desire to please. these dogs need leadership to ensure they learn the appropriate things. therefore, early socialization and puppy training classes are recommended. best training techniques for japanese spitz above all else, the spitz craves attention and time with their humans so owners should participate in the training process. harsh methods are not necessary as these dogs love to learn and thrive on positive feedback. ideal environment the cuddly, compact japanese spitz can live happily just about anywhere. they make wonderful apartment or tiny-house dogs as long as their energy needs are met. while these dogs are playful and typically up for anything, they have relatively low exercise requirements. a good walk each day with plenty of stops to sniff and a session or two of one-on-one play should do it. good for families and kids? the japanese spitz is an ideal family pet known for its love of children. they tend to be active enough to keep up with childish antics and laid back enough to tolerate lots of noise and rough-and-tumble play. note: as with any dog, adult supervision is always recommended when young children interact with the spitz. despite their particularly easy-going personalities, any pooch may get defensive if hurt or frightened. average lifespan 12 – 14 years. health the japanese spitz is a generally healthy breed with an above average lifespan of 12 to 14 years. many live to be upwards of 16 years old. the most common health problem the spitz experiences is patella luxation. this condition occurs when the patella or kneecap dislocates from the patellar groove and drifts from its normal position. luxating patella can range from a mild inconvenience to an extremely painful disability. be sure to purchase puppies from a reputable breeder and ask your veterinarian to assess your dog’s knees. some spitz are also prone to runny eyes due to small tear ducts or allergies. energy https://www.instagram.com/p/borbq2ada0d/ the japanese spitz has a low to moderate energy level, but can certainly keep up with an active family. despite their pretty, dainty appearance, these dogs do not mind getting their paws dirty. take them swimming, hiking, biking – it’s all good as long as it’s with you! remember, for your spitz, the world revolves around you. they may not have high exercise requirements, but they do need your time and companionship. should the japanese spitz become lonely or bored, he may develop anxiety or destructive behaviors. friendly with…(dogs? strangers? cats/other pets?) the japanese spitz typically gets along great with other dogs and is even happy to share his home with cats and pocket pets. these dogs are rarely aggressive, but they may act aloof or bark at strangers and new humans. it is important to provide early, thorough socialization with all kinds of people and offer strong leadership when new people come to the home. coat & grooming the japanese spitz is rare in that he has a long, luxurious coat, but requires relatively little grooming. their snow-white hair coat is straight and smooth with a short, dense undercoat that they shed or “blow” twice a year. unlike true long-haired dogs such as shih-tzus and maltese, the spitz has short hair on his face, ears, and front of the legs. the rest of the body is covered in long, soft hair with a thick mane or frill at the neck, shoulders and forechest. they also have a long, feathered tail. weekly brushing and baths on an as-needed basis are usually enough to keep the spitz’s coat healthy. during the bi-annual coat blow, daily brushing can help manage the mess. quirks despite their thick double coats, the japanese spitz craves warmth. while they are usually up for any adventure, they may prefer to spend a snow day snuggled up under the covers rather than on the slopes! toys japanese spitz would like best the japanese spitz is energetic, intelligent and fun-loving so they can have a blast with just about any toy. thrasher toys are great for shaking and working off some nervous energy. tuggable toys let these little dogs feel big, and give them an opportunity to bond with their favorite human. and the delightful sound of a squeaker toy is sure to please their inner wolf! check out this post about the best toys for pomeranians, close cousins of the japanese spitz. recommended diet or supplements since the japanese spitz is a hearty, healthy breed, they typically do not have any special dietary requirements. choose a well-balanced diet sourced from high-quality ingredients and made in the usa. your vet can help you decide on an appropriate diet and tell you how much to feed. use treats sparingly to prevent obesity and other health problems. a daily multivitamin with a mix of 25 vitamins and nutrients plus antioxidants will help keep your spitz healthy and happy for life! recommended products all dogs deserve a cozy, supportive bed. after all, they spend the majority of their time lying down or sleeping! barkbox’s memory foam orthopedic beds are made with two types of foam for maximum joint support and comfort. notable rescues to find the spitz of your dreams pom e ranch dog rescue: this small dog rescue located in colorado rescues pomeranians and other spitz-type dogs. rescue me! spitz rescue: this site features a clickable map of the united states with the number of rescues for the breed per state. notable instagram japanese spitz kaya the spitz @kayathejapanesespitz https://www.instagram.com/p/bp7v9ckd-ok/ ice the japanese spitz @ice_the_spitz view this post on instagram #spets #spitz #sweden #dog #sunnyday #sweetdog #japanesespitz #doglovers #japanskspets #jappe #happy #holiday #dog #love #lovemydog #vacation a post shared by japanese spitz (@ice_the_spitz) on jul 15, 2015 at 3:28am pdt amora the spitz @amorathespitz https://www.instagram.com/p/bz_rf8wpijm/ pablo the japanese spitz @ pablographs https://www.instagram.com/p/bzcoh-7hn8w/ siumei the japanese spitz @siumeixoxo https://www.instagram.com/p/br7ba4uh6aj/ sushi the japanese spitz @sushi_the_japanese_spitz view this post on instagram oh the fall… the fall. #sushi #fall #toronto #picoftheday a post shared by your sushi linda girl (@sushi_the_japanese_spitz) on oct 29, 2018 at 3:32pm pdt ***looking for a gift to blow spitz’s mind? spoil them with barkbox! every month barkbox delivers 2 original toys, designed in-house, 2 full bags of all-natural treats, and a chew. sign up here and receive a free extra toy every month. <– this deal is worth up to $120 in value if you sign up for a 12-month subscription! 🙂 featured image via kayathejapanesespitz/instagram want more helpful breed guides like this? yorkshire terrier breed information guide miniature pinscher breed information guide italian greyhound breed information guide shiba inu breed information guide comments poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up naomi rogers writer afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts lhasa apso breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts irish wolfhound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go