/ submit / search / store / menu blog : show me the posts forums : but read the community guidelines shop : a directory of wonderful products about us : editors, contributors and staff contact us : get satisfaction advertise here : thank you for not blocking ours privacy policy : what we do with data you generate terms of service : what you agree to follow us twitter / facebook / rss jason weisberger / 11:54 am fri apple and the cdc's covid19 self-diagnosis app apple and the cdc have released this app to help you self-diagnose in the event you are wondering if you have covid19. i think most of the world imagines every tickle in their throat as the beginning of the end. covid19 screening tool for ios read the rest share / tweet / 4 comments cdc / coronavirus / covid19 jason weisberger / 11:22 am fri the new lego star wars mandalorian battle pack! the lego mandalorian battle pack comes with 4 mandalorian shock trooper minifigs! the speeder bike is cool, but 4 mando minifigs for this price is a steal. lego star wars mandalorian battle pack 75267 mandalorian shock troopers and speeder bike building kit; great gift idea for any fan of star wars: the mandalorian tv series, new 2020 (102 pieces) via amazon read the rest share / tweet / 2 comments #mandalorian / #themandalorian / entertainment / lego / mando / play / star wars / toys jason weisberger / 9:08 am fri 'informer' by snow still cracks me up every single time i am sure this guy squealed. read the rest share / tweet / 22 comments music / nostalgia / rap / real thugs of canada jason weisberger / 8:38 am fri transworld skate's 2003 documentary on street skating monster natas kaupas natas kaupas is my favorite skater to watch. i never get tired of his just running the streets. his wallie is also mind blowing. i frequently check the santa monica airlines site to see if they have any new, or retro, deck designs of his for sale. read the rest share / tweet / comments natas kaupas / nostalgia / skate jason weisberger / 3:52 pm thu, mar 26, 2020 skate legend jay adams was still going strong in 2013 sadly, adams passed away in 2014 of a heart attack while on vacation. read the rest share / tweet / 5 comments skate / skateboard jason weisberger / 3:42 pm thu, mar 26, 2020 dystopian masterpieces: the strugatski brothers' "snail on the slope" an appropriate book for this time, soviet-era dystopian fiction grandmasters boris and arkady strugatski considered snail on the slope "the most perfect and the most valuable of their works." snail on the slope is comprised of two separate storylines, taking place in and on the edge of the forest. together they paint a vivid picture of how modern society is not prepared for the future it is driving towards. the bureaucracy has established the administration on the edge of the forest. peretz, a visiting philosopher enthralled with the idea of the forest but unable to gain clearance to actually see it just wants to leave. every day he is promised a ride back to civilization, but it never comes. evicted from the hotel and with his visa revoked, peretz is suddenly outside a system that doesn't even work when you are ensconced within. candide is a survivor of a crashed administration helicopter in the forest. initially, he encounters villagers who appear to be current-ish era humans losing their technology, science, and civilization in a future where physics and biology are evolving faster than they are. exploring the forest even slightly more introduces him to new cultures he and the remnants of his humanity could not have predicted or prepared for. i highly recommend snail on the slope. the snail on the slope (rediscovered classics) kindle editionby arkady and boris strugatsky, olena bormashenko (author, translator) via amazon read the rest share / tweet / 16 comments book / books / dystopian fiction / review / strugatsky jason weisberger / 9:41 am thu, mar 26, 2020 boris and the bomb: a fast paced and funny indie flick that is now on amazon prime boris and the bomb was a fantastic way to spend a night not thinking about the coronavirus. boris is my kind of hero. he mostly just wants to be left the fuck alone. boris and the bomb is an absurd action-adventure, directed by david kronmiller and focused on a reluctant former kgb agent who just happens to have been hiding the nuke he stole on his way out the service for 30 years. j. anthony mccarthy plays boris, a lumbering russian bear of a man who has evidently spent the last 30+ years hiding the fact that he has a nuke. for some reason, now is the time boris needs to get rid of the bomb and so he hops in a rideshare and the adventure begins. the film is part slapstick, part absurdist comedy. boris and the bomb's non-stop action reminded me of the recent dc harley quinn movie and the humor reminds me of the legendary hudson hawk. the action rolls, giant gaping plot holes, and unexplained god knows what occurs... but you do not care at all because the pace just keeps screaming along! i understand that only about $3000 of the $10k raised to make this film was able to be used on actual production (permits and food are evidently a thing.) color me impressed! the film is available gratis if you are an amazon prime member. boris and the bomb via amazon read the rest share / tweet / 1 comments amazon prime / entertainment / indies jason weisberger / 9:49 am wed, mar 25, 2020 jury rigging the pandemic: ford's powered air purifying respirator the united states is in a race to produce enough medical supplies and equipemnt to properly outfit our healthcare and other front line professionals. many us corporations are stepping up to help. ford has re-purposed parts of the f-150 to construct much needed powered air purifying respirators. jalopnik: the job of a powered air-purifying respirator is to draw outside, possible virus—contaminated air into a filtration system before making it available for the person wearing it to breathe. unlike passive filters like masks which rely on the wearer’s lungs to draw the air through a filter mesh, these powered respirators can enclose a person’s entire head in a hood and flood the hood with filtered air. to do this means you need to have something that can actually draw the air in, which is why it’s powered, and that’s where the clever, car-part-related bits come in. ford is re-purposing seat-cooling squirrel-cage-type blower fans from f-150 trucks to pull in air through the filters and blow the air into the feeder hose for the hood. the 12v needed to drive the fan is provided by what looks to be a standard power tool battery pack, the kind you’d use in something like a power drill. read the rest share / tweet / 46 comments ford / ingenuity / jury rig jason weisberger / 11:21 am tue, mar 24, 2020 pandemic reveals continued existence of taster's choice i am currently sequestered with my parents. i live on coffee. the drip coffee maker died. it will take several days for a new one to arrive, due to trump's mismanagement of the united states response to the pandemic. my mother and i are drinking angel city from groundwork, perhaps the last good pound of coffee in the house, via a french press. it is wonderful. my father prefers taster's choice. i had no idea you could still buy taster's choice. taster's choice. read the rest share / tweet / 58 comments coffee / not coffee jason weisberger / 8:38 am tue, mar 24, 2020 watch season one of "the french chef with julia child" free with amazon prime you have a week before the first season of julia child's fantastic cooking show is no longer available with amazon prime. the french chef with julia child -- season one via amazon prime read the rest share / tweet / 14 comments cooking / entertainment / prime video / tv jason weisberger / 4:53 pm mon, mar 23, 2020 with "boober eats" portland strippers continue to serve the populace portland, oregon, home of a fantastic bookstore and some awesome people. the oregonian: the home delivery service, in which a pair of scantily clad strippers will deliver hot food to your door, started as a joke boulden posted on social media. when people began seriously inquiring about orders, boulden saw potential. so, while the rest of portland was hoarding toilet paper and pasta, he bought out one local store’s stock of pasties. from 7 p.m. to 1 a.m., boober eats is offering the full menu from the lucky devil lounge at the same prices. delivery rates are generally $30, but vary depending on distance from the lounge. ... popular orders include chicken fingers, steak bites and mini corndogs. read the rest share / tweet / 32 comments delivery / food / portland / ride-sharing jason weisberger / 11:59 am mon, mar 23, 2020 pandemic sourdough: the first loaf with my new starter click here to see the first post in this series on baking sourdough started from nothing but flour and water yesterday i fed my sourdough starter a bit later in the morning that i have been with the intent of putting up my first loaf of bread later in the afternoon. the go-to loaf of bread that i like to bake is based very closely on the breadtopia no-knead sourdough recipe. yes, they based theirs on the ny times. when i sensed my starter was at the right stage in the yeast feeding cycle for me to most effectively kick off a loaf of bread, i did. i measured ¼ cup of starter and mixed it into 1 cup of warm water and let it sit. deep in the back of my mother's refrigerator are 3 bags of whole wheat. about 2lbs of king arthur that expired in 2017, about 2 lbs of 365 organic that expired in 2019, and about 4lbs of gold medal that i bought last summer and is good for a year or so. i took the 2017 and measured out 2 cups into my favorite big blue bowl. i had a bag of king arthur bread flour at my new home, which is several miles away from my parents' home, where i grew up and am currently staying with them, as they are in their mid-70s. i ventured out to get this bag of flour, as i was freaking out with it less than a 5k road race away for some reason. read the rest share / tweet / 21 comments baking / baking thru the pandemic / bread / flour / pandemic sourdough / sourdough jason weisberger / 8:45 am mon, mar 23, 2020 the winchester mystery house is offering a free 41 minute virtual tour the winchester mystery house is a fantastic california landmark, a monument to firearms heiress sarah winchester's near-unlimited funds and her manic desire to build a home to confuse the ghosts a haunting her. take the tour. read the rest share / tweet / 11 comments entertainment / free tour / winchester mystery house jason weisberger / 8:02 am mon, mar 23, 2020 after the facepalm, dr. fauci expresses his frustration in an interview with science magazine, dr. anthony fauci explains how he is trying to get the trump administration to actually work against the progress of this covid19. dr. fauci will not be calling covid19 the 'chinese flu.' science magazine: q: what about the travel restrictions? president trump keeps saying that the travel ban for china, which began 2 february, had a big impact [on slowing the spread of the virus to the united states] and that he wishes china would have told us three to four months earlier and that they were “very secretive.” [china did not immediately reveal the discovery of a new coronavirus in late december, but by 10 january, chinese researchers made the sequence of the virus public.] it just doesn't comport with facts. a: i know, but what do you want me to do? i mean, seriously jon, let’s get real, what do you want me to do? q: most everyone thinks that you’re doing a remarkable job, but you're standing there as the representative of truth and facts but things are being said that aren't true and aren't factual. a: the way it happened is that after he made that statement [suggesting china could have revealed the discovery of a new coronavirus three to four months earlier], i told the appropriate people, it doesn't comport, because two or three months earlier would have been september. the next time they sit down with him and talk about what he’s going to say, they will say, by the way, mr. read the rest share / tweet / 45 comments anthony fauci / covid19 / facepalm heard round the world jason weisberger / 9:01 am sun, mar 22, 2020 enjoy the pandemic by building an electric guitar at home i have always wanted to do this. my good friend dan olson shares this video he made while building his warmoth telecaster. read the rest share / tweet / 9 comments diy / guitars / make your own / music jason weisberger / 12:17 pm sat, mar 21, 2020 pandemic sourdough waffles update: jason baked some bread! do you like waffles? i am waiting for the sourdough starter, that i mixed up from flour and water last monday, to be ready for bread baking. at the same time i am loath to waste ½ a cup or so of perfectly good starter at each feeding. today i used the discard to make waffles for my parents. my very simple sourdough waffle or pancake batter recipe is as follows: simple sourdough waffle and pancake batter ingredients: ½ cup unfed starter ½ cup flour ½ cup milk 1 egg ¼ cup oil or butter 1 ½ tsp baking soda 1 tbs brown sugar a splash of grand marnier mix the starter, flour, and milk in a large bowl. you can let them sit overnight if you want to be fancy. you may also use the sort of milk known as buttermilk for the milk addition and have buttermilk sourdough waffles. add the egg, oil, baking soda, and brown sugar. if you like, and i certainly do, i recommend adding a splash of grand marnier liquor to the batter. the etoh cooks out and you get a very nice, sweeter than savory flavor. this is important to note as i do not suggest adding the liquor if you are making the waffles to accompany fried chicken! when made with buttermilk and all the overnight rests these are the most awesome waffles for fried chicken and waffles. sometimes i top them with eggs benedict, hollandaise and a chili pepper-infused maple syrup. read the rest share / tweet / 14 comments baking / baking thru the pandemic / do you like waffles? / pandemic sourdough / sourdough / waffles jason weisberger / 9:44 am fri, mar 20, 2020 hangin' tough i asked a friend how they were enjoying the trump pandemic. their response? "hanging tough." if i have this stuck in my head for however many weeks we are self-isolating i may not make it. read the rest share / tweet / 15 comments music / trump pandemic more posts read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support