welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog los 3 lenguajes de programación más populares published on: jul 24, 2019 by maría pérez 8588 views no comments posted in: en español like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post si estás buscando un trabajo seguro con la flexibilidad de trabajar en línea desde cualquier lugar, la programación puede ser el camino a seguir. gracias a las nuevas tecnologías, agregar las mejores habilidades de programación a tu currículum, solo implican tener una computadora, tiempo, y el deseo de aprender. sigue leyendo para aprender más sobre los principales lenguajes de programación, cómo aprenderlos y en qué... read more about los 3 lenguajes de programación más populares front-end web developer: one of today’s hottest jobs published on: mar 15, 2019 by marie-claire forgue 20373 views 7 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post build and enhance critical professional skills in one of the best technology jobs with w3c’s professional certificate program. the web is everywhere: from your favorite connected device (mobile phone, pad, etc.) to your future connected car and home. the web is also changing the landscape in healthcare, financial and government services, as well as commerce, arts and education. as such, the web design and development... read more about front-end web developer: one of today’s hottest jobs software engineers: what they do and how to become one published on: feb 20, 2019 by jerry hamedi 18933 views 3 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post groundbreaking technology is only groundbreaking for so long. new is constantly replacing old, as demand for growth is constant. both individuals and organizations look to utilize the latest technology, in turn creating demand for software engineers who make many of these advancements possible. think about the last time you used excel online, photoshop, itunes, or even google chrome. they were all constructed by software engineers.... read more about software engineers: what they do and how to become one the 4 most lucrative programming skills you can learn online published on: feb 07, 2019 by the edx team 170468 views 21 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post programming jobs are as hot as ever and there is no end in sight. if you are looking for a secure job with the flexibility to work online from anywhere, software development is the way to go. one of the best things about the field of computer programming is that the most popular programming languages can be found with a quick google search and can... read more about the 4 most lucrative programming skills you can learn online new professional certificate programs develop critical skills industry leaders seek today published on: sep 12, 2017 by anant agarwal 6897 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post 2017’s top tech skills for getting a job in silicon valley published on: may 19, 2017 by sara reich 14046 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post become the most wanted tech employee with our collection of online courses. the technology market is becoming more and more competitive, and companies are on the hunt for employees with a specific set of skills. if you want to land that coveted job in silicon valley, you’ll likely need to possess one or more of the most in-demand skills required for the 2017 technology job market. below are the... read more about 2017’s top tech skills for getting a job in silicon valley learn software development the right way published on: apr 18, 2017 by erika thompson 8095 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post software development is a career of the future. while technological advancement and automation are sweeping across industries, rendering many jobs redundant, the software development industry continues to grow at unparalleled rates; all this new technology and automation runs on software. new tech companies are cropping up all the time, old tech companies are growing, and companies in every other sector need software developers to develop... read more about learn software development the right way why you should become a professional android developer published on: jan 25, 2017 by galileo university 17549 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this post originally ran on galileo university’s android developer site. in an increasingly globalized world, mobile apps have changed the way we conduct business, socialize and entertain. this worldwide connectivity has enabled developers to be key actors in the way the economy is being shaped, by giving them the tools to create innovative ideas and distribute them to the app market. this is one of... read more about why you should become a professional android developer the highest paying programming languages of 2016 published on: sep 14, 2016 by jerry hamedi 18181 views 2 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post with hundreds of programming languages in existence, it can be difficult to determine which ones are actually worth your time – particularly if you’re just starting out. many young coders prefer to begin by learning a language that’s relatively easy to pick up, but the wisest coders will learn those which are in the highest demand and have the potential to lead to a high paying job. ... read more about the highest paying programming languages of 2016 start your career with one of the best jobs of 2016 published on: aug 03, 2016 by jerry hamedi 15764 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post having trouble determining which career is right for you? that’s normal. choosing a career is difficult, and choosing a new one can be even harder. for many, the hard part is finding a field that actually piques their interest. for others, the real challenge is deciding between multiple careers that are equally as appealing. when making any career decision, it’s important to have an up-to-date knowledge of the most... read more about start your career with one of the best jobs of 2016 page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close