welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog 3 reasons to add online courses to your cv and how to do it published on: feb 04, 2020 by jerry hamedi 199631 views 18 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post when searching for a new hire, different employers look for different things, but they’re all trying to answer the same overarching question: can this individual add value to my business? as a strong potential candidate, it’s your job to help them reach the right conclusion. it can be a difficult task to set yourself apart from the crowd, but showcasing your completion of relevant online... read more about 3 reasons to add online courses to your cv and how to do it front-end web developer: one of today’s hottest jobs published on: mar 15, 2019 by marie-claire forgue 20373 views 7 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post build and enhance critical professional skills in one of the best technology jobs with w3c’s professional certificate program. the web is everywhere: from your favorite connected device (mobile phone, pad, etc.) to your future connected car and home. the web is also changing the landscape in healthcare, financial and government services, as well as commerce, arts and education. as such, the web design and development... read more about front-end web developer: one of today’s hottest jobs 12 courses you can complete in 6 weeks or less! published on: mar 22, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 12744 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post upskilling his web programming expertise with javascript: meet, jean-claude published on: oct 04, 2017 by carolyn tiernan 5258 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i’m a software developer with many years of java and web programming experience. however, i recently attended an industry conference and realized that web programming has changed a lot in recent years, especially with the release of new standards such as html5 and es6. i realized that i needed to upskill and refresh my knowledge of web programming in order to be best prepared for... read more about upskilling his web programming expertise with javascript: meet, jean-claude 2017’s top tech skills for getting a job in silicon valley published on: may 19, 2017 by sara reich 14046 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post become the most wanted tech employee with our collection of online courses. the technology market is becoming more and more competitive, and companies are on the hunt for employees with a specific set of skills. if you want to land that coveted job in silicon valley, you’ll likely need to possess one or more of the most in-demand skills required for the 2017 technology job market. below are the... read more about 2017’s top tech skills for getting a job in silicon valley html + javascript + css = employment published on: apr 11, 2017 by sangeeta nair, sidney andrews 38214 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this is a guest blog post from microsoft’s introduction to html and javascript course team. you may have heard somewhere along your career path that web development is a hot area where your career can really take off and earn you more than you ever thought before. you may have also read articles that cite large average salaries of $87,000 usd. even the us department of labor projects that... read more about html + javascript + css = employment programming skills to land a new job published on: may 24, 2016 by rachel lapal 28961 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post interested in developing sought after skills to improve your employability? want to advance or change your career? check out the field of computer programming and build your computer programming skills. computer programmers and software developers create apps and design websites. they develop new software programs and write languages that computers can follow. they help power and style websites, networks and systems, mobile devices and more.... read more about programming skills to land a new job future cities, introduction to typescript and the world of wine on edx this week! published on: mar 27, 2015 by mukta g 3738 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what happens when your dentist takes an x-ray of your teeth? why does white wine taste and smell completely different than red wine? how can teachers encourage good behavior, and prevent disruptive behavior? find answers to these questions and more on edx this week. search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close