the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop great job internet jem from jem and the holograms knows the best way to be a superstar these days is to stay indoors you may also like news nine inch nails just dropped 2 free albums to both soothe and unnerve you in self-isolation randall colburnyesterday 8:56am io9 the cast of watchmen become the 'washmen' in this pandemic psa germain lussier59 minutes ago news revisit the 2005 virus that infected world of warcraft dan neilan56 minutes ago more from g/o media read on coronavirus has slashed global air pollution. this interactive map shows how. read on here's a new covid-19 data site to obsessively refresh read on maybe sony will finally fulfill one of playstation's oldest promises read on here's an update on the $900 chinese ev i ordered from alibaba subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe dan neilan 2 hours ago • filed to:great job internet great job internetjem and the hologramscoronaviruspsa 4 save screenshot: jem and the holograms (youtube) recently, all sorts of celebrities have been wielding their influence to share important information about coronavirus and to let their fans know the best ways to stay safe and healthy in these scary times. so, it only makes sense that one of the world’s biggest pop stars has taken to social media with a highly informative public service announcement about the importance of quarantine. who is this superstar entertainer? why, it’s jem, of course. she’s truly outrageous. advertisement more accurately, it’s singer/songwriter and voice actor samantha newark, who provided the voice for jem in the original 1980s cartoon. using a bit of slick audio editing, newark has repurposed an old psa about kids wantonly sharing prescription medicine to remind everyone we need to stay indoors and adhere to strict social distancing. “there are no pills or shots for the coronavirus right now. so, we’re advised to stay in during this quarantine, practice social distancing, and, of course, always wash our hands as much as possible,” jem tells the youngsters who, just moments ago, were eager to pop a few allergy pills like they were skittles. “doing the right thing makes you a superstar!” there’s no word yet on how the holograms are handling this global crisis but, as always, they are in our thoughts. send great job, internet tips to gji@theonion.com advertisement dan neilan posts twitter contributor, the a.v. club. pay me to write for you, you coward. share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the a.v. club the best alien invasion movie of 1996 isn’t the one with will smith america eased into the ’60s with the bedroom comedies of doris day and rock hudson 5 new releases we love: waxahatchee goes vintage, pearl jam returns, and more why does doom eternal play like a mario game in hell? share tweet