got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos music minute featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... jenna dewan shows off fiancé steve kazee serenading her before bed: ‘i’m the luckiest’ home › jenna dewan › jenna dewan shows off fiancé steve kazee serenading her before bed: ‘i’m the luckiest’ so sweet!! steve kazee recently popped the question to his expecting girlfriend jenna dewan, and we couldn’t be happier for the adorable couple! related: jenna dewan files for emergency name change as if they weren’t already lovey-dovey enough, the step up star shared a series of videos to her instagram story on sunday evening which showed her fiancé serenading her with songs in their bedroom. over a clip of the 44-year-old strumming the guitar, dewan wrote: “i’m the luckiest” cutest!! / (c) jenna dewan/instagram story shot from the view of her cozy bed and showing a peek of her floral satin robe, the 39-year-old documented the moment as their dog cosmo became the inspiration for a new tune. she wrote: “now writing a song about our crazy dog cosmo” when the private concert came to an end, jenna shared a stunning selfie. she’s definitely got that pregnancy glow!! gorgeous momma! / (c) jenna dewan/instagram story we can’t wait for their little one to arrive!! [image via jenna dewan/instagram.] related posts jenna dewan & fiancé steve kazee ‘have not started’ wedding planning yet, they’re ‘soaking up’ their baby boy instead! jenna dewan dishes on her ‘calm’ & ‘peaceful’ birthing experience with steve kazee! jenna dewan shares breastfeeding pic & steve kazee explains the sweet origin of his baby boy’s name! jenna dewan welcomes her bundle of joy with bf steve kazee — deets here! click click click next article next article feb 25, 2020 9:12am pdt share this categories baby bump watch instagram jenna dewan love line music minute view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy