the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop great job internet jeremy renner offers sick world a treatment it hasn't asked for with new ep, the medicine you may also like news scott aukerman and pamela adlon solve the mystery of whether patrick swayze was in grease 2 randall colburntoday 11:19am news amanda peet turns homicidal housewife in new dirty john trailer gwen ihnatyesterday 5:48pm news move over, "imagine": we're all doing toni collette's big freakout from hereditary now william hugheswednesday 8:06pm more from g/o media read on here's a new covid-19 data site to obsessively refresh read on sega's new mascot is the son of sega's old mascot read on coronavirus has slashed global air pollution. this interactive map shows how. read on the truth of coronavirus might be worse than the conspiracy theories subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe reid mccarter today 12:26pm • filed to:music musicjeremy rennerthe medicineep 15 save photo: filmmagic (getty images) jeremy renner, in between denying abuse allegations and reminding people that hawkeye is actually a really popular superhero, has been hard at work launching a parallel career as a singer-songwriter. to date, we’ve only been given tiny glimpses of renner’s musical stylings, but now, the coronavirus pandemic offering a seemingly irresistible opportunity, he’s decided to grace us with the surprise release of his ep, the medicine. the lead single’s music video has also been released to mark the occasion and, in short, it sounds exactly like what you think a jeremy renner song would sound like. over floating lyrics and footage of the actor doing his best blue steel faces in the studio, an auto-tuned renner sings like he wants to fuck (no, make love) to your ear over an instantly forgettable radio-rock instrumental. it’s really bad, but, considering the tracks renner’s released before, probably could’ve been a whole lot worse. advertisement an instagram post announcing the ep helps ensure that listeners understand what a gift renner has given us. “i’ve always found music to be one of the few things that unite people in a pure way,” he writes. “common ground can be hard to find in today’s world, but music has remained a constant for me. to feel deeply, to dance fervently, and live together is more present now than ever.” read this over a few times while listening to the medicine and let renner’s words soothe your worried mind. now, apparently, is the time to “dance fervently” and “live together,” no matter what any news headline or public health official says otherwise. [via the playlist] send great job, internet tips to gji@theonion.com advertisement reid mccarter posts twitter contributor, the a.v. club. reid's a writer and editor who has appeared at gq, playboy, and paste. he also co-created and writes for videogame sites bullet points monthly and digital love child. share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the a.v. club why does doom eternal play like a mario game in hell? america eased into the ’60s with the bedroom comedies of doris day and rock hudson the best alien invasion movie of 1996 isn’t the one with will smith all is resolved in an underwhelming star trek: picard finale share tweet