skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation jetpack we use and love jetpack around here. it's a wordpress plugin that brings a whole suite of functionality to your site ranging from security to marketing! here's our favorite features around here. backups we sleep easy at night knowing css-tricks is entirely backed up in real time. that's all the files of course, like wordpress itself, my theme, and plugins, but also the entire database and all the media files. through vaultpress, which comes with my jetpack subscription, we have nearly 10 years of perfect backups. read more elasticsearch better search with minimal effort. it's great to have a search solution where we have complete design control, tweakable results, and no third-party ads. read more social connections we like to tell the world as best as we can when we publish new content. rather than having to do that manually, we can have it happen the second we hit that "publish" button. read more markdown writing content in markdown is the way to go. not only is it quick and convenient, it helps make content last by keeping it super clean and free of presentational markup. read more social login for comments asking a user to manually type out their name and email to leave a comment feels a little too old school these days. jetpack's comment form allows people to use their social media accounts to quickly log in and comment. read more related posts css-tricks has tens of thousands of pages of content! it's a challenge for us to surface all the best stuff, particularly on a per-topic basis and without having to hand-pick everything. showing related posts is tricky to pull off and we love that jetpack does a great job with it, all without burdening our servers the way other related content solutions can. read more these are just a few of the literally dozens of super useful features of jetpack! we bet your site and needs are a bit different than ours, so make sure to explore the whole feature set to find more things that are perfect for you. how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers