menu product tour pricing support blog get started en safer. faster. more traffic. security, performance, and marketing tools made for wordpress sites by the wordpress experts take a product tour compare plans always-on security keep your site totally backed up in real-time with no storage limits and one-click restores. prevent unwanted intrusions with effective brute force attack protection, malware scanning, and spam filtering. get alerts about site downtime instantly. up to 70% off! introducing jetpack backup never lose a word, image, page, or time worrying about your site. jetpack backup is the simplest way to keep your site exactly how you want it. back up your site starting at c$4.50 per month for a limited time built-in performance load pages faster, and serve your images and static files from our global network of servers. improve your site speed and take control of your seo with jetpack’s site accelerator. shorter load times can lead to happier readers, more page views, and — if you’re running a store — improved sales. code-free customization browse hundreds of professionally-designed wordpress themes to find the right one for your site. customize your homepage, blog posts, sidebars, and widgets — all without touching any code. seamlessly embed rich content and videos, deliver them all at high speed, and replace default search with an elasticsearch-powered service. effortless marketing schedule social media promotion of your newest posts, pages, and products before they’re published. keep visitors interested with automatic links to your related content, and monitor stats and notifications on the go with the wordpress mobile app. grow your revenue with the wordpress ad program and simple payment buttons. recommended by wordpress experts i can’t tell you what a relief it is to have our magazine safely situated on wordpress with jetpack’s seamless and secure monitoring and blazing-fast site search. jeffrey zeldman a list apart jetpack backs up everything on your site, and you don’t have to lift a finger. it's comprehensive, real-time, and effortless. chris coyier css-tricks, codepen jetpack continues to get better and better, which made it a no-brainer to partner with for our woocommerce customers at liquidweb. chris lema liquidweb recommended by the biggest names in wordpress take a product tour compare plans en product tour pricing news about mobile app privacy policy terms of service support & resources knowledge base forums contact us press theme showcase security library business guide hosting guide developers developers site beta program contribute to jetpack developer network work with us partnerships become an affiliate become a partner listing criteria powering wordpress.com we are hiring php developers. join us! post to cancel