skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » reviews » jevelin theme review: a creative multi-purpose wordpress theme jevelin theme review: a creative multi-purpose wordpress theme march 4, 2019 joe fylan reviews 8 comments jevelin is a recently released and newly updated multi-purpose wordpress theme. as well as being built for business, personal, and commercial websites, jevelin has also been designed to take full advantage of the powerful woocommerce ecommerce plugin. this means that in addition to using this theme to produce a website for your latest project, you can also create a fully functioning online store with wordpress and jevelin. if you’re looking for a change of design for an existing website or a theme that will help you launch a new website, then jevelin aims to provide you with everything you need. in this jevelin theme review, we look at everything that this product can do to help you decide if it’s the right tool for your project. jevelin wordpress theme features as jevelin is a multi-purpose theme, you can expect to find multiple website demos as well as plenty of customization options and settings. anyone should be able to make good use of this theme from bloggers and freelancers to larger organizations and ecommerce stores. let’s take a look at its best features next in our jevelin theme reivew. multiple website demos like the best multi-purpose wordpress themes out there, jevelin includes a library of pre-built demos. these demos not only show off exactly what this theme can do, but also how your website could look, in just a few clicks. as this is a relatively new wordpress theme, the demos are all fully modern and up to date. after you’ve imported one of the demos, you won’t have to make any changes to their design if you don’t want to. it’s fair to say they are all ready to go. to help you see what this theme can do, let’s explore some of those demos in this section of our jevelin theme review. corporate jevelin demo there isn’t really an obvious default jevelin demo. however, the corporate demo does a great job of showcasing what this theme can do and is a good place to start. if you choose to import the corporate demo into your wordpress website, your project could feature a full screen slider. the rest of your homepage can also include client logos, team member profiles, excerpts from your portfolio and completed projects section, skill graphs, a google map, and much more. of course, the entire demo is fully customizable. therefore, if there’s anything you’d like to change, it shouldn’t be a problem. we’ll look at the customization options soon in this jevelin theme review, suffice it to say, they won’t disappoint. basic jevelin demo the jevelin basic demo might not sound like an exciting option, but it’s another demo with a solid homepage design. after your visitors have checked out the homepage slider, they can scroll down the rest of the page to find out more about your business. all the best homepage elements are in use with the basic jevelin demo. this includes social media feeds, pricing tables, the latest blog posts, icon grids, and more. you can easily add or remove elements and sections from the homepage, giving you a quick way to personalize this website demo. jevelin online shop demo thanks to the jevelin theme’s full support for the popular woocommerce online store builder plugin, no matter what demo you choose, you’ll be able to list products online and collect payments from your customers. however, if you want to create a dedicated ecommerce website, then this demo is the obvious choice. the jevelin shop demo includes a great selection of stylish product templates. there’s also a good amount of online store layouts to help you present your inventory in style. it doesn’t really matter what type of products you want to sell online. with this ecommerce demo, you can quickly modify your store to match your company vision. landing page demo there are actually two different landing page demos in the jevelin theme package. whichever one you choose, you shouldn’t have any trouble turning more of your visitors into customers or clients, or forging some other relationship with them. if the homepage lead generation form doesn’t fulfill its role of generating more leads, the rest of the landing page demo homepage is focused on answering any remaining questions your visitors might have. customer testimonials, client logos, and portfolio content can all be used to help persuade your visitors to take the next step. creative jevelin demo as well as catering to corporate customers, the jevelin theme is also well suited to creative websites. freelancers, consultants, businesses, and any other type of organization working in the creative sectors should be able to benefit from using this demo for their website. again, a feature-rich homepage layout is used to great effect. with this demo, it won’t take long to build a creative website to showcase your best work. if you want to present your creative side with the least effort required, the jevelin creative demo is a good option. jevelin blog demo although wordpress has transcended its origins as a blogging platform, jevelin hasn’t forgotten the roots of this popular website builder software. there are in fact three different blog demos to choose from. depending on how you want to present your content, each of the jevelin blog demos has something different to offer. whichever blogging demo you choose, you’ll have a selection of different page layouts and designs to work with. furthermore, you’ll have all the other great features of jevelin to take advantage of to build the perfect blog for your project. other jevelin demos include a fitness design, a wedding site option, an events demo, and a portfolio website. one click demo content importer we’ll cover the demo content importer tool in more detail in the user experience section of our hands-on jevelin theme review. however, in short, it’s an easy to use tool that will help you import one of the jevelin demos into your wordpress website in just a few clicks. online portfolio ready no matter which demo you choose, you can easily add a portfolio to your website with jevelin. if the goal of your website is to show off your portfolio, then the portfolio demo could be a great choice. however, thanks to the portfolio templates, adding a portfolio to your website is very straightforward. in fact, with jevelin, there are multiple options for publishing your portfolio. you can choose from a range of layouts and styles, as well as formats and appearance settings. of course, you can easily customize the appearance of the portfolio section of your website. thanks to the integrated page builder and customization settings, you can ensure your portfolio has the right look and feel for your project. thanks to the use of wordpress custom post types, your portfolio projects can easily be managed from your dashboard area. when it comes to adding new portfolio projects to your site, you can use a combination of the wordpress editor and a custom control panel. with jevelin, creating a portfolio website with wordpress isn’t a problem. website customization options jevelin includes a custom theme options control panel, powered by the unyson framework. this panel gives you a lot of control over how your site looks and functions. these settings cover how the blog and portfolio content is organized, how your optional ecommerce store is configured, social media integration, and more. as well as the theme options control panel, you can also modify your website through the wordpress customizer. through this intuitive interface, you can customize the site icon, colors, fonts, header and footer configurations, and a lot more. while you’re changing your site through the customizer, you get a live preview of your adjustments as you make them. then, once you’re happy with your work, you can hit the save & publish button to share them with the world. other features of the jevelin wordpress theme as well as a wealth of customization options and pre-built website demos, jevelin has a few other features to recommend: drag-and-drop unyson page builder tool. slider revolution premium slideshow builder plugin. library of video tutorials covering how to use the theme. fully mobile responsive. full woocommerce ecommerce support. over 40 custom shortcodes. rtl optimized for languages with right-to-left text. adjustable mega menu navigational aid. six blog post layouts. selection of custom widgets. support for video backgrounds. parallax scrolling effect. plus lots more. jevelin wordpress theme user experience jevelin looks great on paper. but does it live up to its marketing hype? let’s find out just how easy this theme is to use in the user experience section of our jevelin theme review. after all, if you can’t actually create the website you want with a theme, no matter how impressive its feature list, it’s probably not the right choice for your project. getting started with jevelin after purchasing jevelin, you’ll be able to download the theme files before uploading them to your wordpress website. once you’ve activated the theme, you’ll be prompted to install the recommended and required plugins. however, with only four plugins recommended for installation, it won’t take you long to get started. importing the demo content you could just use the jevelin theme as is. however, to get the most from this theme, you should really import one of the demos, at least as a starting point for your own custom design. some themes make importing the demo content more difficult than it should be. thankfully, jevelin doesn’t fall into this camp. in just a few clicks, you really can import one of the website demos into your wordpress site. once you’ve made a selection from the available demos, simply click the appropriate button and the import will start. to keep you up to date with what’s going on in the background, the jevelin importer will display a progress bar. however, as the whole process only takes a few minutes at most, you won’t be left wondering what’s going on for long. customizing your wordpress website in just a few clicks, you’ll have imported the jevelin demo content of your choice and laid the foundation for your new website. now you can launch the wordpress customizer and start making changes to the appearance of your site. as well as personalizing many aspects of your website through the customizer, you can also use the page builder tool. as mentioned, the jevelin theme includes the unyson page builder tool, a popular add-on for wordpress websites. using the wpbakery page builder thanks to the drag and drop page builder, you can open up any of the demo content in the drag-and-drop user interface. you then have the option of exploring the settings in the jevelin control panel to see how else you can customize your website. once you’ve explored all the options, your site should be ready for launch. jevelin wordpress theme pricing options the jevelin wordpress theme is available from the themeforest marketplace for $59. this is the standard price you’d expect to pay for a multi-purpose wordpress theme at themeforest. as well as lifetime access to theme updates, the $59 covers six months of support from shufflehound, the jevelin creators. this support period can be extended to 12 months for an extra $17. jevelin theme review final thoughts jevelin is an impressive multi-purpose wordpress theme. the portfolio templates are particularly impressive and provide you with an excellent way to publish your past work and completed projects. the jevelin customization options should impress too. the good support for the wordpress customizer gives you an easy way to personalize many areas of your site. the wpbakery page builder tool gives you a relatively straightforward way to customize the demo content to ensure it matches your vision. it would’ve been nice to see a more modern wpbakery drag-and-drop page builder included in the package. however, there’s nothing stopping you from choosing from the best wordpress page builder plugins and adding your chosen tool to your website. furthermore, as the demo content looks so good, you might not even want to customize any of it. the best way to find out if jevelin is the theme for you is to check out the demos and see if there’s an option that would be suitable for your project. if there is, then you can choose jevelin safe in the knowledge that you’re getting a high-quality wordpress theme for a fair price. view the jevelin website demos now. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. multipurpose themeportfoliowoocommerce themeswordpress theme review share this share tweet pin it share joe fylan joe uses wordpress to create websites of all types and loves sharing his experiences of using this software with other users. if you need a steady stream of great content for your website, or you want the latest wordpress news and review then check out his writing services and wordpress blog. related posts amax review: an impressive responsive multi-purpose wordpress theme amax is a recently released multi-purpose wordpress theme. while this is one of the most… bought a multipurpose wordpress theme recently? you made a mistake! “most advanced wordpress theme” or “the last theme you will ever need to buy” are… atelier multi-purpose wordpress theme review: more than just an ecommerce theme if you are in the process of building a new website or an online store,… knowall theme review: create a knowledge base website with wordpress knowall is a powerful knowledge base wordpress theme from the herothemes team. if you need to… wp file download review – powerful wordpress file manager plugin if you’re looking for a better way to handle files in wordpress, then the wp… profilegrid review – improved user profiles for wordpress profilegrid is described by its creators as a user profile plugin for wordpress. however, this… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: oshine theme review: a feature-packed wordpress theme next post: divi theme review – is it the best multipurpose wordpress theme? we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×