home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog chicken chili april 30, 2010 by erin weiss 6 comments i did the shred (level 1) and tread again last night right after work. this time i upped my speed a little to 7, 7.5 and 8. i was sweating bad. i absolutly hate circuit 1 of the shred level 1. i hate going from push ups to squat & press, back to push ups & back to squat and press. my arms aren't strong enough still do this this completely. i usually have to take a … [read more...] shred & tread april 28, 2010 by erin weiss 7 comments thanks for the ideas yesterday about the couples shower i'm going to this weekend. i think i'll just bring a card and a little gift (maybe a bottle of wine or something). i don't want to be the only one showing up empty-handed! tuesday morning was very hectic in the office, so i truthfully didn't have any time to even eat breakfast! somehow i managed to not go crazy and … [read more...] race to wrigley is sold out!!! april 21, 2010 by erin weiss 3 comments thanks to everyone on their advice on which race i should do. one of my friends just informed me that the race to wrigley 5k is now sold out. :( :( :( i guess i waited to long to register for that one. it looks like i'll do the firefighters race on thursday especially since it's supposed to be sunny out. hopefully i register in time for that one. tuesday was an icky day. … [read more...] jillian michaels the shred level 2 dvd march 24, 2010 by erin weiss 5 comments i started my tuesday with a green granny smith apple and reduced fat peanut butter. i am probably one of the few food bloggers that loves peanut butter but doesn't eat it much. when calorie counting, i have such a hard time understanding and accepting that it's okay to eat. i know that there are a lot of positives to peanut butter, but the calorie and fat content is just too … [read more...] aunt millies bread & whole foods pizza march 23, 2010 by erin weiss 2 comments i had a busy night of running errands but managed to squeeze in a workout. i attempted to do jillian michaels level 3 card again. it was a 45 min treadmill session, and i ended up modifying it to be a little (who am i kidding?!?) a lot easier and did it for about 35 minutes. i was proud of myself for doing more of the workout then i did last time. i would love to challenge … [read more...] jillian michaels ifit sd card – get fit treadmill review march 22, 2010 by erin weiss leave a comment jillian michaels ifit sd card this is my third and final review for jillian michaels ifit sd card - level 1 - get fit. i gave the card a third and final chance last night. i cranked up the card to one of the last levels on the 8 week program. after about 10 minutes, i ended up turning it off because the workout wasn't as intense as i'd like it to be. i felt that it was a … [read more...] oops! food and booze overload! march 22, 2010 by erin weiss 1 comment i had a super.duper.duper fatty weekend. i decided to take my "cheat weekend" to a whole other level. it mostly included mass quantities of these two: it also consisted of lots of food that weren't even close to fitting in my diet. mcdonald's, beer, steak and shake, panera and chili's! every bit of it was great, but it was seriously a binge weekend. my whole ten pound … [read more...] jillian michaels ifit level 1 card – get fit (program 10) march 18, 2010 by erin weiss 2 comments after reviewing jillian michaels ifit level 1 card - get fit yesterday with a negative feeling about it, i decided to give it another shot. in the other review i started at program 1 of 24 on the treadmill and thought it was way too easy. last night i decided to jump it up to program 10 of 24 in hopes for a better workout. overall, i still don't feel like i got a good … [read more...] adios 10 lbs!! march 18, 2010 by erin weiss 2 comments 131.0 today is a big day...i've reached my first goal!! i've lost 10 lbs!!! what a great feeling :) i want to thank everyone who has taken the time to read my blog and comment. it has truly helped me in my mission to lose some weight. i never realized how much of an impact blogging could have on me, but i already love blogging. i feel like i've met some really cool people … [read more...] jillian michaels ifit card level 1 get fit – review march 17, 2010 by erin weiss leave a comment i got my level 1 get fit ifit card in the mail yesterday. after buying and trying to do level 3 on the treadmill a couple weeks ago, i decided it was to hard and i would step it down a little to level 1. i popped the card in my nordictrack treadmill and put on program 1. being an active person already, level 1, program 1 was entirely too easy. it basically had me walking … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in