australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video entertainment 03/27/2020 05:16 edt | updated 7 hours ago jim carrey casts donald trump in the movie of his nightmares “he has fully become the mayor from jaws,” the actor-artist said of his latest coronavirus-themed cartoon featuring the president. by lee moran, huffpost us jim carrey on thursday hit donald trump with his second taunting artwork of the week, despite saying in january that he would no longer depict the president in cartoon form. the actor-artist used his latest politically themed piece to take aim at the trump white house’s widely criticized response to the coronavirus pandemic. carrey cast potus in “jaws,” which could actually be the movie of trump’s nightmares given his reported terror of sharks. “trump is willing to risk countless lives to save his economic record,” carrey captioned the picture, seemingly in response to the president’s stated wish to reopen businesses shuttered amid the public health crisis by easter. trump’s hope is in stark contrast to advice from health experts. “he has fully become the mayor from jaws,” carrey wrote, in reference to the film’s fictional mayor larry vaughn (played by murray hamilton) who orders the beach to remain open despite evidence that a shark is lurking nearby. trump is willing to risk countless lives to save his economic record. he has fully become the mayor from jaws. pic.twitter.com/zggjcleaxg — jim carrey (@jimcarrey) march 27, 2020 the character returned in the sequel, “jaws 2.” carrey mocked trump with this nsfw piece on tuesday: as cases of covid-19 double every three days in nyc, the president reassures wall street that he can handle the important tissues. pic.twitter.com/dzculploo1 — jim carrey (@jimcarrey) march 24, 2020 he also continues to tweet updates on his beard that he’s vowed to grow “until we all go back to work.” day 1. i’m growing a beard until we all go back to work. i’ll post reg pics so you can marvel at the miracle of my meaningless transformation. normally, i try to stay on the cutting edge of entertainment. now i shall conquer the uncutting edge. please join me. #letsgrowtogetherpic.twitter.com/ualqjwlgfh — jim carrey (@jimcarrey) march 23, 2020 day 3. beard growth seems slower in isolation. already yearning for the life i had before all the stubble began. pic.twitter.com/5uncc7ifc5 — jim carrey (@jimcarrey) march 25, 2020 related... cnn airs long list of trump’s most troubling coronavirus claims disaster chief slams trump’s ‘preposterous’ coronavirus claim donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad suggest a correction lee moran reporter, huffpost more: donald trump coronavirus jim carrey jaws film murray hamilton trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.