barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up answers jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest naomi rogers writer shares share tweet pin welcome to the barkpost guide to dog breeds where we belly flop straight into the depths of dog breed origin, evolution, and purpose. follow along each week as we publish new guides that highlight the strangest, most interesting, and most surprising stuff about these creatures who have been our best buds the last 30,000 years. table of contents intro / overview also known as… origins size weight range personality intelligence / trainability best training techniques for jindos ideal environment good for families and kids? average lifespan health energy friendly with…(dogs? strangers? cats/other pets?) coat & grooming quirks toys jindos would like best recommended diet or supplements recommended products notable rescues to find the jindo of your dreams notable instagram jindos intro / overview (all dogs are individuals, which means any single dog from any breed can be any number of ways, both good and not so good. keep that in mind as we discuss breed generalities!) the korean jindo is a bold and brave powerhouse of a dog trapped in a medium-sized body. they are fierce hunters and devoted guard dogs. these traits, combined with their unmatched loyalty, make the jindo a natural choice for korea’s national dog. the jindo has perky triangular ears and a thick, sickle-shaped tail. they are known for their strength, dignity, agility and watchful, alert nature. above all else, they are faithfully devoted to their masters. with strong leadership and early, thorough training, jindos make wonderful companions. however, this breed may not be the best choice for families with small children or those with multiple pets. they are known as one-man-dogs, and their powerful prey drive means they may not get along with other animals. owners unwilling or unable to assert strong leadership may be better off choosing a less challenging breed. on the other hand, those who put in the time and effort will find a fiercely loyal friend to share their active lifestyle with. also known as… korean jindo. chindo. jindo gae. jindogae. jindo-kae. jindo-kyon. “the harry houdini of dog escape artists!” origins when the mongols invaded korea during the 13th century, they brought along their dogs. some believe the early korean jindo was a result of indigenous dogs breeding with these mongol pups. some of the korean soldiers retreated to the small jindo island off the southwest coast of south korea for which the breed is named. the ancient jindo strain became quite pure in this isolated environment. the jindo enjoyed a life of freedom on the island, roaming unrestrained by their owners’ sides for thousands of years. this free-range lifestyle helped develop their remarkable hunting and guard dog skills. in 1962, the republic of korea designated the jindo a cultural asset, bestowing upon them the title of korean natural treasure #53. although they are not currently eligible for registration with the american kennel club, the jindo was recorded by the akc foundation stock service in 2008. size male jindos grow to a height of 19½ to 21 inches. females are slightly smaller at 18½ to 20 inches. weight range the average jindo weighs 30-50 pounds. personality jindos are careful and intelligent with a calm, confident demeanor. according to the korean jindo association of america (kjaa), they rarely bark without provocation, but they are extremely territorial and will not back down if challenged. the jindo is an independent breed with exceptional problem-solving skills. these traits worked well for the jindo during its time roaming free in south korea. their intelligence combined with their desire for freedom makes them modern-day escape artists. there are few fences and crate doors they cannot conquer! the kjaa lists loyalty as the jindo’s most prominent personality trait. this can be both a blessing and a curse. dog lovers will be hard-pressed to find a more faithful, protective companion. however, the jindo may be aloof with other humans and hesitant to share their favorite person with other pets. intelligence / trainability jindos are extremely intelligent, but also independent and free-thinking. this means that despite their high capacity for learning, they may resist training if they do not know and respect the trainer. experts recommend that the primary owner take an active role in the training process. if using a professional trainer or behaviorist, a relationship must first be built between the two. the breed is known for its calm nature within the home, and therefore does not require much training to be a respectful indoor companion. they are not clingy or destructive, and rarely suffer from separation anxiety. jindos are also quite clean, potty training early in order to maintain a tidy living space. best training techniques for jindos early socialization and puppy training classes are important for all dogs, but especially so for the jindo. they tend to be aloof and mistrustful of strangers and impatient with other dogs. starting young and building relationships with people and pets in your community will help ensure your jindo develops into a good canine citizen. jindos can learn a wide array of tricks and commands as long as they feel comfortable with their trainer. positive reinforcement is a necessity, as this breed will shut down if exposed to negative or heavy-handed techniques. the key is to keep training fun, light, and variable. jindos like to stay busy and become bored easily so be sure to provide lots of new challenges and mix up the training topic frequently. ideal environment jindos tend to be calm and content within the home, and are able to live in small spaces. however, their outdoor environment is another story. not only are jindos territorial, they also love to wander. their escape artist tendencies combined with their strong prey drive can easily get them in trouble should they invade someone’s property or go after a neighbor’s cat. in order for a jindo to thrive as a family pet, he must know his boundaries and receive enough daily exercise to curb his wild tendencies. good for families and kids? as with any dog, the jindo should never be left alone with young children or people who do not know how to behave around dogs. while they are not aggressive by nature, jindos are mistrustful and may act out if they feel threatened. early socialization is imperative, and all interactions should be carefully supervised by a trusted adult. average lifespan 12 – 16 years. health jindos are generally quite healthy with a lifespan of 14 years or more. the most common health issues within the breed are allergies and hypothyroidism, but some jindos suffer from cataracts and hip dysplasia. jindos also have a predisposition for a specific form of lupus that causes depigmentation of the lip and nose, lesions of the skin, and scar formation. another condition to watch for is cystinuria, a genetic disease that leads to kidney and bladder stones. energy jindos are a very energetic breed. they need daily physical exercise and mental stimulation to maintain their calm presence indoors. letting your jindo out in the yard to play by itself is not recommended. their high prey drive and escape tactics may get them into trouble. instead, find something the two of you can do together. jindos love having a job to do and excel at canine sports like lure coursing and agility. not only are these activities wonderful for tiring out an energetic pooch, they also help strengthen the human-animal bond. friendly with…(dogs? strangers? cats/other pets?) dogs: some jindos can live peacefully with additional dogs, others cannot. they are known to assert dominance and will not tolerate rude or challenging behavior from another pup. if you already have a dog and wish to add a jindo to your family, choose a puppy of the opposite gender to avoid same-sex aggression. be sure to properly introduce the dogs and work on socialization and obedience training right away. strangers: the korean jindo is unlikely to behave aggressively unless provoked. however, they are fiercely loyal and protective of their humans. unannounced strangers will not receive a welcome greeting. the breed has little interest in expanding their group of human friends beyond their own family unit. this is why early and ongoing socialization is so important. jindo owners must consider their cautious, aloof personalities when choosing trainers, pet sitters, etc. these dogs must get to know those they will be working with before being left alone together. however, well-socialized jindos can be quite affectionate with new people as long as their owner makes a point of approving the stranger’s presence. cats and other pets: did we mention that the jindo has an extremely high prey drive? their ancient origins as deadly proficient hunters is still with them, and they are likely to chase cats, birds, rodents, etc if allowed to run off-leash. according to treasured k9s, a 501(c)(3) dog rescue specializing in korean jindos, even the best trained dog will disregard commands in order to chase smaller prey. the desire is just too strong to resist. just as some jindos can learn to accept other dogs, they can also coexist with cats and small pets, but it takes patience and consistent training on the part of the owner. coat & grooming korean jindos have thick, warm double coats that may be brindle, white, black and tan, fawn, or gray. they are known for their cleanliness, and their double coat helps repel dirt and water. most of the year they require only minimal grooming such as weekly brushing to minimize shedding, and an occasional bath. however, twice a year, the jindo “blows its coat.” the entire undercoat sheds over the course of several weeks, leaving the dog looking spotty and shabby. this process is normal for double-coated breeds, and helps them better tolerate the changing seasons. quirks jindos may be a bit too smart for their own good. as known escape artists, they are at high risk for becoming lost or injured during one of their adventures. toys jindos would like best jindo dogs are intelligent and energetic with a powerful prey drive which means they loooooooooove toys that challenge their minds and stimulate their instincts! although they are not known as a food-motivated breed, jindos love the boredom-busting challenge of a puzzle toy. make sure you choose one with multiple settings and difficulty levels. brainy jindos make short work of easy-to-solve toys. balls and fetch toys help satisfy their desire to hunt and chase small prey. this experience is even better if the toys bounce erratically or make realistic squeaking sounds like an animal in distress. a few shreddable plush toys will also satisfy your jindo’s inner predator. and last but not least – if your jindo is a big chewer, try some super chewer toys for something a bit more durable. check out the toys in our post on curbing the craziness of your high-energy dog for more great play ideas! recommended diet or supplements jindos are typically light eaters and tend to stay lean throughout their lives. since they are not “foodies,” they have a tendency to be picky about what they eat. the best course of action is to choose an age appropriate diet that fulfills their basic nutrition needs and stick with it! if your dog has allergies or digestive problems, consult with your veterinarian to determine the best feeding plan. fish oil skin & coat supplement since jindos are prone to certain skin issues, consider a fish oil skin & coat supplement. the vitamin c and omega fatty acids support immune health, ease dryness and itching, and promote a healthy coat. best of all? no stinky fish breath! glucosamine supplement for hip & joints the korean jindo is also at risk for hip dysplasia and may benefit from a glucosamine, chondroitin, and msm-rich hip + joint supplement. recommended products all good dogs (aka: all dogs) deserve a cozy, supportive bed to rest their furry head. in addition to the jindo’s predisposition for hip dysplasia, their activity level also puts them at risk for minor injuries and increased wear and tear. choose a plush memory foam bed to support their joints and help them recover from the day. orthopedic ultra plush memory foam dog bed this ultra plush orthopedic dog bed provides support for even the wrinkliest of bloodhounds! the combination ergonomic memory foam and gel foam relieves pressure points, and helps ease body aches caused by hip dysplasia, arthritis and other orthopedic issues. it offers the best therapeutic support for your bloodhound. ($27.99-64.99.) notable rescues to find the jindo of your dreams treasured k9s two dog farms, inc. jindo dog rescue jindo love rescue free korean dogs save korean dogs korean k9 rescue adoptable jindos on petfinder notable instagram jindos maisy the korean jindo @maisythejindo https://www.instagram.com/p/xu4u11ojzc/ jin the jindo @jinthejindo view this post on instagram can't catch anything #jindo a post shared by jinthejindo (@jinthejindo) on apr 2, 2017 at 10:34am pdt koji the jindo mix @kojithejindo https://www.instagram.com/p/bvw7ilqhb6y/ jindo the korean jindo @jindo.the.jindo https://www.instagram.com/p/baa3gnfxqud/ galbinoori the jindo @galbinoori_thejindo https://www.instagram.com/p/bz9pyhunna9/ ***looking for a gift to blow your jindo’s mind? spoil them with barkbox! every month barkbox delivers 2 original toys, designed in-house, 2 full bags of all-natural treats, and a chew. sign up here and receive a free extra toy every month. <– this deal is worth up to $120 in value if you sign up for a 12-month subscription! 🙂 featured image via jinthejindo/instagram want more helpful breed guides like this? whippet breed information guide greyhound breed information guide bichon frise breed information guide dalmatian breed information guide jack russell terrier breed information guide golden retriever breed information guide comments poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up naomi rogers writer afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts lhasa apso breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts irish wolfhound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go