skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about jobs at skint dad share tweet pin skint media is a growing online publisher, specialising in money related topics. working from an office in central tunbridge wells, within walking distance to the town centre and mainline station, we are a friendly bunch who are open to any and all ideas (we really are – we’ve managed to flog loo roll!). we are keen to grow, so we want people to join us who will enjoy being part of that journey and growth. current vacancies freelance writer we are looking for a junior content writer to join us in creating fun, engaging articles and blog posts with a focus on money for our award-winning site skint dad. this is not a traditional personal finance writing position and we are looking for someone who can see finance from a different angle. as part of our content team, you will be responsible for producing high-quality content, writing everything from guides to news and blog posts. you will be writing new, original content for the site and will need pitch, research and edit blog posts, ensuring content is light-hearted, free from jargon and easy to understand. if you have a passion for writing, as well as a passion for saving money, we will be keen to hear from you. musts good written skills for online platforms be creative, imaginative and let personality shine in your writing ability to work to tight deadlines attention to detail passion for money and enjoy finding a new angle on a story love a deal (and can find them better than your mates) desirable experience in blogging and using wordpress (cms) basic understanding of seo interest in social media what’s in it for you? we are a small, family focussed, growing company and there will be opportunities to develop if you’re happy to grow with us. this role is initially on a freelance basis, working 15 hours over 3 days (we can be flexible on this). this is a contract for three months, with the view to become permanent after this time. we have a non-stop supply of tea, coffee and biscuits on offer, as well as occasional treats (all related to food!) to apply, please send your cv with links/examples of a couple of pieces of written work or send us an example of how you would write for us. please send your covering letter and cv to [email protected] we will aim to respond to applications within two weeks. contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about