0 letter to a stranger behind the feature essays about donate jobs back letter to a stranger images of america back no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say back letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives letter to a stranger letter to a stranger images of america behind the feature essays no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say about letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives donatejobs the detour is the story 0 oa seeks managing editor background oa began as a reading series in new york city, inspired by a candid talk the travel writer pico iyer gave at yale in 2013. a community of journalists and travel writers galvanized around the idea that “the detour is the story” and hosted themed storytelling nights, in which writers divulged untold travel tales. full backstory in this short video. position off assignment seeks a paid, part-time managing editor, preferably based in new york city, but applicants in other locations are encouraged to apply (this job can be done remotely). the managing editor will be responsible for soliciting submissions to our “letter to a stranger” series and other columns, liaising with contributors, overseeing the organization’s basic operations, applying for several grants, bookkeeping, and publicizing our content on social media. our ideal candidate for managing editor is self-motivated, highly organized, creative, passionate about oa’s content and mission, undaunted by administrative tasks, and eager to help us foster an increasingly diverse community of contributors. 2-3 years of professional writing or editing experience is preferred, as well as familiarity with squarespace. experience in nonprofit management, fundraising, and/or grant-writing is a major plus. the position is approximately 15 hours per week and comes with a modest stipend of $600/month (subject to increase based on fundraising), or $7,200 per year. we’re asking for a minimum 1-year commitment. to apply please send us the following materials to offassignment@gmail.com, with the subject line "application," with a cc to colleenkinder@gmail.com: a cover letter that details: 1) your particular interest in the position; 2) the experience that equips you for it; 3) your current work/life situation and how this position at oa would be negotiated with other jobs and responsibilities a current cv application deadline is feb 10, 2020. thanks very much for your interest. yours, the oa team “lately, anytime i need a break from the news, i’ve been getting lost in “letter to a stranger,” a column from the travel magazine off assignment. journalists write notes to the most memorable strangers they encountered, but never spoke to. haunting, and absorbing, the perfect distraction from reality. ” — the new york times "what we're reading," jenna wortham “it’s a platform for reflective travel writing. with travel media getting more and more commercial, it’s nice to have a place where professionals can get into the real stories inherent in a foreign encounter. it’s retro and forward-thinking in the right ways....the letters to a stranger section is equally heartwarming and haunting. the triptionary section makes for a lunch-break laugh.”” — fathomaway, best 24 travel blogs of 2017 © off assignment / offassignment@gmail.com