log insign up about apps tips logo jobs business buttons press developers transparency internships more now hiring photos by justin ouellette working here tumblr was started with the belief that people need a place to say what they want, be who they want, and connect over what they love. now, billions of posts later, we continue to build out tumblr as a platform for diverse communities to express their points of view. and we’re committed to hiring a workforce that represents the same diversity. we know that teams who bring a variety of backgrounds and perspectives to their work build better products—and that better products mean a better experience for all of the communities we serve. it's a big task and a lot of responsibility. that’s why we need smart, humble, funny people to keep tumblr running and growing. we’re big enough to give you the resources you need and still small enough that you can work on things that matter. we are part of the automattic family of companies dedicated to making the web a better place for more than a billion people each month. come work with us. benefits open vacation policy (no set number of days per year). we encourage all employees to take the time they need for vacation, to pursue their own interests, to stay healthy, and to spend time with friends and family. if you are distributed, you'll get a home office setup and coworking allowances. working from a coffee shop? you can use your coworking allowance for the requisite latte! we provide or reimburse hardware and software you'll need, as well as books or conferences that promote continued learning. company-sponsored life insurance. open parental leave (includes maternity, paternity, and adoption). if you've been with automattic for 12 months, your leave is fully paid. wordpress-branded laptop at your four-year anniversary. a spiffy set of wireless headphones at your seven-year anniversary. paid two to three-month sabbatical encouraged every five years. other benefits are country-specific, and include health, vision, and dental insurance; matching retirement/pension contributions; childcare vouchers; income protection; travel insurance; and discount offers. read more about the work culture of automattic here. open positions account manager sales director © tumblr, inc. legal privacy