content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip author: jodi harris jodi harris is the director of editorial content and curation at content marketing institute and serves as editor-in-chief of its digital magazine, chief content officer. follow her on twitter at @joderama. company news by jodimedia published march 18, 2020 how to create visual content that’s worth a thousand shares editor’s note: we’ve updated this post with some fresh examples because compelling visuals remain a critical, yet often underused resource. visuals are essential to creating content that will help your business stand out and draw in an audience. not only does imagery help make text-centric content more readable, digestible, and memorable, but it can be used to craft compelling messages that speak volumes without using a single word – just ask anyone who has posted a photo on instagram, tweeted a meme to express their feelings, or created an instagram video to share a memorable moment with friends. continue reading company news by jodimedia published march 9, 2020 should engagement really matter to marketers anymore? engagement. our brands crave it, our audiences seem eager to participate in it, and our campaigns are designed to drive it. on the surface, engagement often seems like an ideal goal for content marketers; but when you take a deeper look at how difficult it is to determine its value, you may want to rethink the role it plays in your strategy. continue reading by jodimedia published february 18, 2020 what to expect when you’re experimenting expanding your content horizons with ai, vr, or other tech enhancements can feel like an exciting journey of creativity or a frustrating exercise in futility – depending on how you approach the process. prepare to add new dimensions to your brand’s storytelling efforts with an experimentation method that won’t blow up in your face. continue reading company news by jodimedia published february 18, 2020 want more business? narrow content focus to targeted accounts editor’s note: given the vital role technology plays in achieving content marketing success, we’re taking a closer look at how today’s thought leaders are bringing unique perspectives and personal experiences to the work they do in this space. we often think of business growth in terms of “more” – reaching more people, delivering more content, selling more products, and so on. it’s one of the reasons content marketers heavily rely on tech solutions to speed up their processes and scale their campaigns. continue reading company news by jodimedia published february 3, 2020 how to create a strategic social media plan [template] editor’s note: given the ongoing need for brands to handle their social media plan more strategically, we updated this previously published article. concerned that the death of the instagram “like” count might kill your brand’s traction on the platform? questioning where your facebook ads might appear across its network of sites, including messenger? curious as to whether user trust has deteriorated to where social media is no longer a safe space for your brand to play? you’re not alone. continue reading company news by jodimedia published january 20, 2020 brand empathy: the one critical quality b2b content lacks [video] we could all use more empathy in our lives. the ability to think about the world from someone else’s point of view isn’t a nice-to-have or even an aspirational quality for content marketers. it’s absolutely critical. our jobs revolve around our ability to understand consumers’ mindsets and reflect them in the content we create. true brand empathy is different from merely identifying needs, serving up useful information, or even understanding the personal motivations that drive consumption. continue reading company news by jodimedia published december 30, 2019 marketers: reclaim your time with these productivity tips, tools, and templates “we’ve got so much time and so little to do. wait a minute. strike that. reverse it.” this (slightly revised) quote from willy wonka & the chocolate factory nicely captures my state of mind – about content marketing and, to be honest, all the other frenzied activities happening this time of year. it just feels like there’s never enough time to get everything done. at a time when the colder, darker days of winter are urging us to slow down, curl up somewhere warm, and enjoy our well-deserved holiday breaks, the weight of looming tasks when we return makes it even harder to justify taking time to fully relax and recharge. continue reading company news by jodimedia published december 27, 2019 best of cco digital: a year transformed with sound and sight 2019 was a year of big changes for the chief content officer publication team – as, i’m sure, it has been for all content marketers. the biggest of these changes has been the transformation to an all-digital publication. cco’s fans and followers also may have noticed that our content has gotten richer – more audio and video content features reflect the industry’s evolution toward more portable, more accessible, and more immersive storytelling. continue reading company news by jodimedia published december 16, 2019 don’t obsess over search rankings; do this instead editor’s note: given the complexity around tech in content marketing, we’re sharing conversations with thought leaders to bring greater understanding. too often, seo is an afterthought – a technique for complementing or enhancing content creation and distribution. but failing to plan for search up front can be a big mistake. continue reading company news by jodimedia published november 19, 2019 select your search marketing tech for now and the future editor’s note: technology is essential to content marketing success. but the complexity around tech selection and use often leaves businesses struggling to keep pace with innovation. to bring clarity and understanding, we’re sharing a series of conversations with thought leaders in this space. algorithm shifts leave marketers with a dim view of the search landscape. audience and business priorities evolve constantly. no wonder b2b businesses are challenged to find tech solutions powerful enough to deliver current performance goals while remaining adaptable enough to accommodate new priorities as they emerge. continue reading 1 2 3 … 16 next page » connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree