content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip follow author: joe pulizzi joe pulizzi is the amazon bestselling author of killing marketing, content inc. and epic content marketing, which was named a “must-read business book” by fortune magazine. his latest book is the will to die, his debut novel. he has founded three companies, including the content marketing institute (cmi), and has launched dozens of events, including content marketing world. in 2014, he received the "lifetime achievement award" by the content council. his podcast series, this old marketing with cmi's robert rose, has generated millions of downloads from over 150 countries. he is also the author of the random newsletter, delivered to thousands every two weeks. his foundation, the orange effect, delivers speech therapy and technology services to children in over 30 states. follow him on twitter @joepulizzi company news by joepulizzi published november 11, 2019 marketing 2030: 7 laws for content marketing success this article is based on joe’s keynote presentation at content marketing world 2019. you can see the presentation slides here. first, i’d like to apologize. back in 2008, when newt barrett and i wrote the book get content get customers (please, do not buy this book), i wrote some things that simply aren’t true. at least not anymore. continue reading company news by joepulizzi published april 9, 2019 successful content marketers have these 7 traits editor’s note: while joe wrote this piece a couple years ago, we’re bringing it back in case you missed it (or in case you want a refresher) about what makes a great content marketer. one of the most influential authors of my personal and career journey is napoleon hill. napoleon hill’s classic think and grow rich was first published in 1937. now, in the book’s 82nd year, mr. hill’s lessons are still extremely relevant and valuable. continue reading company news by joepulizzi published december 31, 2018 3 life and marketing success resolutions for 2019 this text and the accompanying 30-minute video comes from my content marketing world 2018 keynote presentation. on dec. 31, 2017, i “retired” from marketing and took a sabbatical for 2018 (which, as of this publishing, i’m still happily on). i’ve given over 400 keynote speeches in 18 countries, but this one was the most personal. the team at cmi is nice enough to publish this so the entire cmi audience can watch and read it. i hope there is something here that will help you in your life or your marketing (hopefully both). yours in content, joe continue reading industry news and trends / pnr by joepulizzi published december 22, 2017 this old marketing farewell episode: sometimes the end is a beginning pnr: this old marketing with joe pulizzi and robert rose can be found on both itunes and stitcher. in our grand finale episode, robert kicks things off by pondering the decision to end something, so that something else can begin. we answer listener-submitted queries, and ask a few of our own; then we sign off with a final farewell inspired by a few of the greats. continue reading productivity by joepulizzi published december 18, 2017 this goal-setting activity that made all the difference this is my last article for a while, so i really wanted this one to make an impact and stay with you. even though the amazing cmi editorial team wanted me to write about marketing, i wrote this instead (ha). occasionally, i’ll do an interview where someone will ask: “what’s the one thing you did that made the greatest impact to where you are at now?” it’s my favorite question, both because it’s the easiest to answer and something that almost no one does. the answer is about setting goals. i’ll get to the specific formula below, but first, let’s take a step back. continue reading building your audience / content strategy / industry news and trends / influential content marketers by joepulizzi published december 12, 2017 are you ready for content marketing in 2018? 60+ predictions it’s hard to believe that, after 10 years, this will be the last time i share my annual list of content marketing predictions for cmi. not to get all sentimental or anything, but looking into the future of our industry and anticipating the content and media trends most likely to impact our businesses has always been a favorite part of the job … and it will be one of cmi’s content experiences i’ll miss the most as i retire from cmi this month. but, as change is the only constant, it’s time to put the past aside and focus on the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead. and, if anyone can help lead the content marketing industry forward and prepare you for what’s to come, it’s the group of experts who contributed to our 10th annual e-book of content marketing predictions. continue reading content creation / content marketing examples / content marketing tools and technology / pnr / podcasts by joepulizzi published november 28, 2017 how to develop and grow a successful podcast robert rose and i just completed four years and over 200 episodes of our podcast, this old marketing. while far from the most successful marketing podcast on the planet, our one hour of weekly shenanigans has done fairly well.continue reading content marketing examples / industry news and trends / pnr by joepulizzi published november 25, 2017 this week in content marketing: why won’t cmos consider buying media companies? pnr: this old marketing with joe pulizzi and robert rose can be found on both itunes and stitcher. if you enjoy our show, we would love it if you would rate it or post a review on itunes. in this week’s episode in this final regular episode, robert ponders the nature of doing nothing (and doing it well). we discuss which company we feel is most likely to buy fox, and whether apple will ever really buy disney. we also examine an increasingly disturbing web content trend, and media companies’ rush into the agency services business. our rants and raves include net neutrality and audio content; then we sign off with an example of the week that takes us back to our own humble roots. continue reading content marketing examples / industry news and trends / pnr by joepulizzi published november 18, 2017 this week in content marketing: latest content marketing spending stats hard to believe pnr: this old marketing with joe pulizzi and robert rose can be found on both itunes and stitcher. if you enjoy our show, we would love it if you would rate it or post a review on itunes. in this week’s episode this week, robert ponders the nature of “violent agreement.” we unpack the latest content marketing spending research – and debate whether or not we can actually believe it. marketing predictions are back again, and we also discuss why casper is putting van winkle’s to sleep. our rants and raves include building an audience, snapchat, and the art of questioning; then we close the show with an example of the week on the maxwell house haggadah. continue reading content strategy / editorial strategy and planning by joepulizzi published november 14, 2017 17 questions to break free from competitive content issues in 1998, i became the investment club guide for about.com. my responsibilities included the creation of at least one original article per week on the topic of investing or investment clubs, as well as development of the e-newsletter for the subscribers of that channel. i absolutely loved it. every piece of content i created scored more traffic. the formula seemed so easy … just create article after article answering questions about investment clubs and the audience grew and grew. about.com had hundreds of guides like me covering almost every topic imaginable. by the early 2000s, about.com was one of the largest websites (by audience traffic) in the world. at that time, it was all about scale … creating content for everybody. yahoo did it. microsoft did it. excite.com did it (i owned stock in that little disaster). it was about scale until it wasn’t about scale. continue reading 1 2 3 … 70 next page » connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree