australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video entertainment 03/27/2020 07:28 edt | updated 8 hours ago joe biden says donald trump 'hasn't done what's rational to do' the democratic presidential front-runner blasted the president's coronavirus response on a home version of "jimmy kimmel live." by ron dicker, huffpost us joe biden said thursday that donald trump’s response to the coronavirus pandemic shows that the president “hasn’t done what’s rational to do.” appearing via video chat on a home version of “jimmy kimmel live,” the former vice president, who’s the democratic front-runner to oppose trump in november, ripped the president for his slow response to covid-19. the united states now leads the world in cases, with new york city the epicenter. “the coronavirus is not his fault,” biden said. “but the lack of alacrity and the speed with which he responded to these things i think could be improved considerably.” kimmel asked biden why the president won’t get businesses to make masks and other critical equipment in short supply. trump has refused to use the defense production act to force industry to produce certain goods during a time of emergency. “he has that power,” biden said. “he said he was going to be a wartime commander in chief during this period, but he hasn’t done what is rational to do.” shifting to the presidential race, biden said he would narrow down his choices to five to seven women to be his vice presidential running mate. in a lighter moment, kimmel asked him if he would consider sarah palin, the former alaska governor who was john mccain’s veep running mate against barack obama and biden in the 2008 election. “i asked her,” biden joked. “she doesn’t want to be.” a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic why trump is wrong to compare coronavirus to the flu how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off got anxiety? here are 6 cheap mental health resources. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 12 zoom hacks for work meetings and virtual happy hours how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction ron dicker general assignment reporter, huffpost more: donald trump joe biden coronavirus jimmy kimmel jimmy kimmel live trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too coronavirus in condos: what residents should know about covid-19 subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.