home politics cltv mediabites search this site: search login | register username: * password: * forgot password? remember my login on this computer politics 3/26/20 4:53am read time: 1 minute comments joe scarborough wants trump bailed out so he won't get revenge on america "by exempting donald trump and his businesses from getting relief, what you are doing is you’re actually encouraging him to make rash decisions that are going to hurt america," scarborough argued. by juanita jean look, i don’t like joe scarborough and i never will. there’s something real creepy about him. i can’t tell you why i don’t like him because it’s unknown to me. however, today gave me a little clue. msnbc’s joe scarborough thinks senate democrats should go ahead and bail out president donald trump’s hotels and other properties so he’ll focus on public health instead of his own bottom line. the “morning joe” host called on lawmakers to waive their objection to sending coronavirus relief to properties owned by trump and his family, saying he’s been worried about the president’s priorities. see the little kid in the corner throwing a fit at the birthday party because he can’t have all the ice cream? give him all the damn ice cream because otherwise he’s going to ruin the party for everyone. i resent the hell out of being extorted by my president. did he go stalin on us now? tell ya what – give him your money, joe. how fair is this to the mom and pop who bought a la quinta franchise? they don’t have the russians to bail them out. the last damn thing in the world i want is donald trump focusing on pubic health. seriously. what we need now is not saving trump’s hotels. we do, however, need better morning show hosts and the 25th amendment. say it, joe. published with permission of juanitajean.com tags: bailout, donald trump, joe scarborough facebook twitter pinterest flipboard email can you help us out? for 16 years we have been exposing washington lies and untangling media deceit. we work 7 days a week, 16 hours a day for our labor of love, but with rising hosting and associated costs, we need your help! could you donate $20 for 2020? please consider a one time or recurring donation of whatever amount you can spare. it will be greatly appreciated and help us continue our mission of exposing the real fake news! donate via: kindest donate via paypal or mail checks to: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 more c&l coverage jon stewart admits he can't stop watching 'blowjob-a-coaster' donald trump as much as he tried, the daily show's jon stewart just could not stop watching the gop's current train wreck of a frontrunner, donald trump. jul 23, 2015 by heather jon stewart admits he can't stop watching 'blowjob-a-coaster' donald trump as much as he tried, the daily show's jon stewart just could not stop watching the gop's current train wreck of a frontrunner, donald trump. jul 23, 2015 by heather nationals pitcher explains why he won't attend white house celebrations "as much as i wanted to be there with my teammates and share that experience with my teammates, i can’t do it,” said sean doolittle. nov 02, 2019 by ed scarce let me put this in simple spanish: méxico no pagará por la pared! mexico ain’t gonna pay for the damn wall. feb 28, 2018 by juanita jean george papadopoulous: innocent bystander hey, you have to have ‘convicted felon’ on your resume to get a $300,000 a year job on fox news. this is an employment opportunity for him. sep 02, 2018 by juanita jean scarborough: trump asked three times 'why can't we use nuclear weapons?' the host of 'morning joe' repeated what he'd been allegedly told by a high ranking foreign policy expert. aug 03, 2016 by ed scarce comments we welcome relevant, respectful comments. any comments that are sexist or in any other way deemed hateful by our staff will be deleted and constitute grounds for a ban from posting on the site. please refer to our terms of service (revised 3/17/2016) for information on our posting policy. latest fox and friends pretends trump is sympathetic to ny's need for ventilators. ainsley earhardt completely re-words dear leader's response to gov. cuomo's plea for 30,000 ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by aliza worthington trump 'doesn't believe' we don't need so many ventilators good to know, stable genius! mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump admits his 'issues' with michigan's woman governor are affecting covid aid what the hell, donald. grow up and do your job. mar 27, 2020 by john amato trump's 'easter' schedule is all about the brunch money of course trump's hotels have a profit center around the after-church easter buffets. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum jimmy kimmel interviews joe biden about the coronavirus crisis "speed matters," biden said about trump's response. mar 27, 2020 by susie madrak view all » latest from cltv governor cuomo's henry v speech: 'we will tell our grandchildren and shed a tear' andrew cuomo speaks to new york national guard troops in a speech that will long be remembered. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum fox & friends revisionist history of trump's denial that new york needs ventilators fox & friends lies about what trump said just the night before with sean hannity about new york's need for ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by heather trump to hannity: 'i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators' "you know, you go to major hospitals, sometimes they have 2 ventilators." says stable genius. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump whines to hannity about governor whitmer of course the strong woman governor is a problem for donald. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum tucker carlson attacks the media for reporting on the dangers of trump promoting untested covid-19 treatments fox's tucker carlson goes after the media for daring to report on trump's dangerous rhetoric promoting experimental coronavirus treatments. mar 27, 2020 by heather visit cltv » stay connected facebook twitter flipboard feeds daily newsletter our daily top picks right to your inbox email name name="b_1b79560977ef0d50a412db2c8_d4904be7bc" tabindex="-1" value=""> staff editor & publisher john amato managing editor karoli kuns associate editors aliza worthington frances langum heather nicole belle susie madrak contributors chris capper li... dale merrill david ed scarce jenn budd newshound ellen red painter webmaster jamie support c&l or by snail mail: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 ©2020 crooks and liars footer about us feeds contact terms of service privacy dmca search this site: search home cltv politics media bites entertainment activism sports tech green business yesteryear misc