australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 18:40 edt joe biden accused of sexually assaulting senate aide in 1993 tara reade, one of eight women to accuse biden of inappropriate touching, said this week that the presidential candidate assaulted her nearly 30 years ago. by alanna vagianos, huffpost us mandel ngan via getty images democratic presidential hopeful former us vice president joe biden participates in the 11th democratic party 2020 presidential debate in a cnn washington bureau studio in washington, d.c., on march 15, 2020. a former aide to democratic presidential candidate joe biden said this week that he sexually assaulted her in 1993, her most detailed account to date of his alleged inappropriate behavior. tara reade, who was at the time serving as an aide in biden’s senate office, told podcast host katie halper that biden kissed her and penetrated her with his fingers without her consent. reade said she pushed biden off of her and he allegedly became annoyed and said: “come on, man! i heard you liked me.” “it was like everything shattered in that moment,” reade told halper in the interview, which was posted wednesday. “he was, like, my father’s age. he was this champion of women’s rights in my eyes. i couldn’t believe it was happening.” reade alleges that after she pulled away from biden, he pointed in her face and said, “you’re nothing to me.” last april, reade was one of eight women to accuse the former vice president of inappropriate touching. reade told the intercept’s ryan grim this week that she only told the media part of her story at the time because she received an onslaught of harassment that instantly quieted her. this is a story that @readealexandra has been trying to tell since it happened in 1993. it's a story about sexual assault, retaliation and silencing. #metoohttps://t.co/yhz3ifi9a5 — katie halper (@kthalps) march 25, 2020 biden, who later went on to be vice president before running for president himself, denied the allegation on friday through his deputy campaign manager. “women have a right to tell their story, and reporters have an obligation to rigorously vet those claims,” kate bedingfield said in a statement, according to vox news. “we encourage them to do so, because these accusations are false.” last year, after she first accused biden of inappropriate touching, reade was accused of being politically motivated and called a russian operative after a medium post in which she praised russia and its president vladimir putin resurfaced. as the 2020 campaign for president continued, reade had a change of heart about remaining silent, according to the intercept. in january, she approached time’s up, the anti-sexual violence organization established in the wake of the me too movement, to help her. the intercept reports that by february, time’s up told her they could not help because biden was a candidate for federal office, and if they assisted her they could lose the organization’s nonprofit status. “our decision on whether or not to provide certain types of support to an individual should not be interpreted as our validation or doubt of the truthfulness of the person’s statements,” a spokeswoman for time’s up told the intercept of their decision to not assist reade. “regardless, our support of workers who come forward regarding workplace sexual harassment remains unwavering.” reade’s allegation against biden, and her experience with time’s up, was not initially front-page news as the coronavirus pandemic dominates news cycles. as the week went on, hashtags including #ibelievetara, #unendorsebiden and #timesupbiden started picking up steam. #ibelievetara i also believe most democrats don’t give a real crap about sexual harassment or #metoo. if they did, biden’s other accusers would have mattered. anita hill would have mattered. am i wrong? i’d love to be proven wrong? *trumpers - don’t even try, just stfu — rebecca bitton (@rebeinstein) march 26, 2020 eight women have come forward against biden making sexual harassment claims & at least one sexual assault. say their names: -lucy flores -amy lappos -d.j hill -caitlyn caruso -ally coll -sofie karasek -vail kohnert-yount -tara reade it's time to #unendorsebiden#timesupbiden — #ibelievetara (@pepperoceanna) march 27, 2020 this entire election cycle i was making the argument that biden and his supporters are just like trump supporters then they proceed to prove me right by attacking and defaming a sexual assault victim and telling her to #votebluenomatterwhorapesyou truly dark stuff#timesupbiden — democrats are ignoring joe biden's sexual assault (@flythaimma) march 27, 2020 reade told halper that the harassment she initially received after coming forward in april with allegations of inappropriate touching shows why many survivors of sexual violence don’t come forward. “the thing that i remember most, almost more than the assault itself, was just being told i was nothing,” she said. “and he was right. that’s how people treated me ... i have no platform, i am no one and to him i’m nothing.” “if people want to know why women don’t come forward, that’s a good example of why,” she added. reade told vox news that she initially supported sen. elizabeth warren (d-mass.) in the presidential race, but now supports sen. bernie sanders (d-vt.). president donald trump, who once bragged about grabbing women “by the pussy,” has been accused of sexual misconduct, ranging from harassment to assault and rape, by at least 21 women. the president regularly denies allegations of sexual and domestic abuse against him ― and his former staffers ― as “fake news.” listen to halper’s full interview with reade below. related... 2 more women accuse joe biden of 'uncomfortable' touching a running list of the women who've accused donald trump of sexual misconduct joe biden jokes about inappropriately touching women — again trump mocks 'me too generation' at rally need help? visit rainn’s national sexual assault online hotline or the national sexual violence resource center’s website. suggest a correction alanna vagianos women's reporter, huffpost more: sexual assault joe biden democratic primary trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too who's hiring in canada? companies look to fill jobs amid covid-19 pandemic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.