skip to main content the diary of samuel pepys daily entries from the 17th century london diary menu the diary letters encyclopedia in-depth articles site news recent activity about categories map family tree log in register search go encyclopedia people john ashburnham (groom of the bedchamber to the king) annotations (3) references (4) 3 annotations ✹ michael robinson on 4 dec 2008 • link per l&m companion: (c.1603-71) brother of william ( http://www.pepysdiary.com/encyclopedia/9422/ ). 'the great man,' was originally a protege of the 1st. duke of buckingham, ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/george_villiers,_1st… ) and spent most of his life during two reigns, as groom of the bedchamber. during the civil war he was also paymaster of the royal army. his part in charles' escape to the isle of wight in 1648 lead to the unjustified suspicion that he had also lead the king into a trap. the cromwellian government had no doubt of his loyalty to the king and kept him for years in prison. in the diary he often appears as a friend of cartaret. ✹ terry foreman on 18 feb 2012 • link john ashburnham (mp) john ashburnham (1603 – 15 june 1671) was an english courtier, diplomat and politician who sat in the house of commons at various times between 1640 and 1667. he supported the royalist cause in the english civil war and was an attendant on the king. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/john_ashburnham_%28m… ✹ san diego sarah on 24 mar 2020 • link john ashburnham mp, groom of the bedchamber to king charles -- 1603 - 1671. brother of william. 'the great man,' was originally a protege of the 1st duke of buckingham. during the civil war he was also paymaster of the royal army. his part in king charles' escape to the isle of wight in 1648 lead to the suspicion he had lead the king into a trap. the cromwellian government had no doubt of his loyalty to the king so he was arrested in 1654 on a charge of sending money to the exiled court, and imprisoned in guernsey until the fall of the protectorate. in the diary he often appears as a friend of cartaret, although his parliamentary activity declined around 1665 because of gout, and in andrew marvell's description of the court party in 1666 included: "of the old courtiers next a squadron came, that sold their master, led by ashburnham." ashburnham’s career at court was unaffected by suspicion of taking gratuities, and aided by the profits from his iron-works he flourished materially until his death on 15 june, 1671. he was buried in ashburnham church, which, as ‘a great lover of the church in the right protestant way’, he had rebuilt since the restoration. in his will he provided for the repurchase of ancestral lands, but warned his executors against committing sacrilege by the purchase of ecclesiastical estates. as an heirloom he left a watch with ‘an enamel case of imagery which was given me by my late dear master king charles i’. per l&m companion and https://www.historyofparliamentonline.org/volume/… log in to post an annotation. if you don't have an account, then register here. references chart showing the number of references in each month of the diary’s entries. 1665 dec 3 1666 nov 25 1667 mar 24 sep 2 latest site news full samuel pepys club interview 27 march 2020 samuel pepys and the virus 25 march 2020 email, twitter & mastodon receive diary entries by email daily join the pepys’ diary email discussion group follow in real time on twitter or on mastodon rss feeds diary entries encyclopedia topics in-depth articles site news posts about this site is run by phil gyford @philgyford on twitter more about this site