home comments policy subscribe posts by author: john quiggin borders by john quiggin on march 23, 2020 as part of the general lockdown in response to the pandemic, most of the australian states* have just closed their borders (as has the us state of hawaii i believe). for those antiglobalists who have been claiming that the pandemic justifies their opposition to “open borders”, this presents a problem. unlike international borders, those within countries like australia have truly been open, with the exception of a handful of quarantine restrictions. once the pandemic passes, does the anti-migration lobby want to introduce internal passports, require everyone to justify their movements to the police and so on? that would seem to follow from the logic of many of their arguments, not just about the pandemic but about overpopulation, competition for jobs and so on. as regards the pandemic, it has raised the point that on any given day, millions of people are (or were, until recently) crossing international boundaries. the proportion whe are doing so for the purpose of migrating from one country (legally or otherwise) to another is minuscule. for example, australia (poulation 25 million) is a high migration country, with 162 000 migrants in 2019. in the same year, there were 42 million passenger arrivals. if we assume that half are returning australians and that visitors stay an average of two weeks, that implies there are over a million non-migrant foreigners in the country at any given time, equivalent to five or six years worth of migration. are the restrictionists calling for them to be excluded permanently? a final observation is that our quasi-military border force, created to stop refugees arriving by boat, has done a pathetic job in dealing with cruise ships loaded with infected and potentially affected passengers. thousands have been allowed to disembark and return home without even a temperature check, then frantically chased when tests on fellow-passengers came back positive. { 21 comments } crises and the case for socialism by john quiggin on march 21, 2020 the coronavirus crisis is very different, at least in its origins, from the global financial crisis. both differ in crucial respects from other crises in living memory, notably including the great depression and world war ii, as well a string of severe but not catastrophic crises that have affected the global economy and society. but thinking about them all together brings home the point that major crises are quite common events. the crisis of the past took each took between five and ten years to resolve. even if the current crisis is shorter, we can draw the conclusion that crisis of one kind or another is not an aberration, but a regular occurrence in a complex modern society. what they have in common is that they result in a need for urgent government action. the greater the capacity and willingness of governments to act to protect society from the economic damage associated with such crises the better, in general, the outcome has been. the most immediate requirements for dealing with a crisis are a strong and comprehensive welfare state, protecting everyone against falling into poverty through sickness, old age and unemployment strong protections for workers, protecting them against arbitrary dismissal, and with a public commitment to restore and maintain full employment these will have to be made up as we go along, plastered over the existing patchwork, then properly integrated into the welfare and industrial relations system in the aftermath, we need a substantially expanded economic role for government, including control over infrastructure and financial enterprises and increased public provision of health, education and other services. all of this will require a substantial increase in the public share of national income, which can only be financed by reducing the share going to high income earners, and particularly the top 1 per cent. in short, we need socialism. how to get to a ubi by john quiggin on march 20, 2020 last year i published a book chapter arguing that the first step way to get to a universal basic income in australia was to expand the existing benefit system, increasing payments and removing conditionality (relevant extract over the fold). this is often called a guaranteed minimum income (gmi). i counterposed the gmi approach to the alternative of making a small payment to everyone in the community, and then trying to increase it over time. i suggested three initial steps assuming a ‘basic first’ approach is preferred, how might it be implemented? three initial measures might be considered: (i) increase unemployment benefits, at least to the poverty line; (ii) replace the job search test for unemployment benefits with a ‘participation’ test; (iii) fully integrate the tax and welfare systems we are already on the way to taking these steps. having floated the idea of a separate benefit for people who lose their jobs due to the virus crisis, the australian government has quickly abandoned it in favour of an increase in existing benefits. this is supposed to be temporary, and, in theory, at least, there has been no change in compliance efforts like work testing. but ‘temporary’ will turn out to be a long time, and compliance efforts are going to be impossible until things return to normal. [click to continue…] zoom by john quiggin on march 17, 2020 i just gave my first uq departmental seminar using zoom. as in most places, our usual practice is to have visiting speakers present their work and meet colleagues in the same field. when large numbers of chinese students were prevented from returning to australia in the first round of the coronavirus epidemic, the cost to the university’s budget was such that nearly all travel, including paying for visitors’ travel was cancelled. as it’s turned out, a good thing to. this left big gaps in the seminar program, so i volunteered to present a paper in one of the vacant slots. by the time the seminar was scheduled to happen, budget cuts were the least of our worries. lectures were stopped for a week while we switch to all-online teaching, and (nearly all) meetings were cancelled. so, i decided to present the talk from home using zoom. it went quite well, even though my home internet is a bit flaky (the much-delayed national broadband network is supposed to arrive here next month, and may improve things). in the subsequent discussion, it was pointed out that we could invite people from outside the department to take part. for example, one of our phd students had a paper accepted for a conference that’s been cancelled, and could ask some of the key people who would have been there to hear the presentation. it also struck me that we could have gone back to the originally scheduled speaker, and had them do a zoom presentation. that leads immediately to the question: why carry on with the tradition of flying colleagues in to have them talk to us, when they could just as well do it from home (or at least, from their home campus)? the difficulties are much less than those with online-only teaching. of course, i would say that. i’ve been pushing the merits of videoconferencing and related technologies for decades, and regularly respond to travel invitations by offering a video presentation rather than attendance in person. but now that lots of people are experiencing the process and finding it works reasonably well (and in fact has substantial advantages), returning to the old ways once the crisis is over may be too difficult to justify, especially since our budget is going to be stringently rationed for a long time to come. rightwing postmodernism by john quiggin on march 4, 2020 next week in brisbane, i’ll take part in a debate/dialogue with stephen hicks, a north american philosopher, who has criticised postmodernism from a right/libertarian perspective. he’s on a tour of australia, and was invited to brisbane by murray hancock who’s setting up the brisbane dialogue which has the ambitious objective of promoting civil discussion across political divides. i ended up being dobbed in (is this an australianism?) to present the other side, and chose the topic “postmodernism is a rightwing philosophy”. longterm readers of my blogging won’t be surprised: i was making this claim as far back as 2003. thanks to kellyanne conway and “alternative facts”, i’ll have plenty of material to work with. i plan to argue that in the absence of any objective correspondence to reality, it’s the truths favored by the rich and powerful that will win out, not those of the oppressed. trumpism is the obvious illustration of this, but rightwing postmodernism on issues like climate change and creationism long predates his rise. still, i have a couple of problems. first, i’m not a philosopher, so i’m working with a pretty simmple interpretation of postmodernism, roughly stated as “there are multiple truths, and no one is better than another” more precisely, as i encountered it, postmodernism involved a two-step of terrific triviality, putting forward statements that encouraged the simplistic interpretation most of the time, but, when challenged, retreating to into total obscurity, or else into something more nuanced and not very interesting like “there may be an actual truth of the matter, but we can never know it for sure” . but is there a better interpretation of postmodernism, one that is both interesting and comprehensible? my second problem is whether constructive dialogue on a topic like this will prove to be possible. i think we’ll agree at least on not liking postmodernism, and probably on some of the intellectual history. i have no idea, though, what hicks thinks about trump and trumpism, or for that matter about climate change and science in general. i’ll see how it plays out. planning for pandemics (repost from 2005) by john quiggin on february 28, 2020 the news of deaths from bird flu in indonesia is pretty scary. although, as i’ve mentioned recently indonesia has made a lot of progress in many respects, the handling of this threat so far seems to show the worst of both worlds: all the ill ffects of authoritian habits combined with the timidity of weak politicians. there have been a lot of coverups, and an unwillingness to tackle the necessary but unpopular task of slaughtering affected flocks of birds. things seem to be improving now, but there’s a long way to go. it seems very likely that, sooner or later, bird flu will make the jump that permits human-human transmission, and quite likely that a major flu pandemic will result. the world, including australia, is very poorly prepared for this. one thing we could do to prepare is to adopt a national program encouraging annual flu vaccinations for everyone, instead of just for limited categories of vulnerable people. the main benefit of this is not that the shots would provide immunity against a new and deadlier flu variant (though there might be some limited benefit of this kind) but that we would have the infrastructure, production facilities and so on to undertake a mass vaccination against such a variant if it arose. as it is, it seems likely that many countries will be scrambling to get access to an inadequate world supply of vaccines, but if australia and other developed countries ramped up normal levels of production, it would be much easier to generate extra supplies for our neighbours. i haven’t looked into it, but my guess is that, even without considering the possibility of a pandemic, the benefit-cost ratio from such a measure would be pretty high. flu is very costly in economic terms, and i suspect that, if pain and suffering were thrown into the balance, a program of universal free vaccination would come out looking pretty good. notes i wrote this in 2005 thinking about new flu strains. the only difference i see with “novel” viruses is that the time taken to produce the initial batches of a vaccine is likely to be longer. as is usual with my policy advocacy, little if anything has been done along the lines i suggested. vaporfly by john quiggin on february 23, 2020 like most recreational tri-athletes, i don’t pay much attention to what’s happening in the top levels of the sport, let alone in the separate worlds of swimming, cycling and running[1]. but i took notice last year when eliud kipchoge ran a marathon distance in under two hours, a barrier long thought to be unbreakable, and one that reminded my of my failed attempts to break four hours over the same distance. kipchoge had plenty of help in his effort, including pace runners (providing an added drafting benefit) and a guide car projecting laser light on to the track to ensure exact pacing. these non-standard features mean that the time doesn’t count as a record for the marathon event. apparently, the biggest boost, however, came from his shoes, nike’s recently released vaporfly’s which incorporate a special carbon plate and a foam designed to return as much as possible of the energy expended from the impact of each pace. in subsequent events, runners with vaporflys have produced winning times as much as 4 per cent faster than would be expected. and, it seems, the benefit is just as great, or even greater, for middle-aged slowpokes. as with similar innovations in swimming and cycling, there was a lot of pressure to ban these technological marvels. but the international olympic committee, unwilling to take on the might of nike, decided to allow the shoes, while trying to limit further innovations. so, should i lay out $a300 or so for a pair of these marvels, which apparently may last for only a couple of hundred km (ymmv)? for the moment, i’m not going to. i’m going to have one more try to break four hours, and for this purpose i’m racing against my (not quite as old) self, not other competitors or even the clock. once the technology becomes general, i’ll no doubt adopt it like everyone else. in the meantime, what really appeals to me is the claimed capacity of cooling wristbands to lower body temperature. even in moderate temperatures, i end events drenched in sweat and temperatures in queensland aren’t always moderate. does anyone have any experience/thoughts on this? the worst case is happening by john quiggin on february 6, 2020 a couple of years ago, i published an article on why “extremely unlikely” climate events matter. the central point was that climate outcomes with a probability of 5 per cent or less (“extremely unlikely” in ipcc terminology) were still much more likely than risks we take seriously in our daily life, like dying in a car crash). as an illustration, at the time the piece was written, it seemed less than 5 per cent probable that, within two years, many countries in the world (including australia) would see catastrophic fires on the scale of those that have actually happened. i made this point in an interview for an abc story on economists’ views of the likely costs of 3 to 4 degrees of climate change. most of those interviewed agreed with me that the costs were likely to be much higher than suggested by economics nobelist william nordhaus (with whom john horowitz and i had a debate in the american economic review quite a while ago). we pointed out, among other problems, that a paper he had co-authored implied an optimal july temperature of -146 degrees fahrenheit. nordhaus declined an interview, but his viewpoint was represented by richard tol. longstanding readers will remember tol as a commenter here who eventually wore out his welcome. the other point i made in the interview was that the abstruse debate about discount rates central to much of the debate between nordhaus and nicholas stern has turned out to be largely irrelevant. the premise of that debate was that the costs of unmitigated climate change would be felt decades into the future while the costs of mitigation would be immediate. as it’s turned out, the costs of climate change have arrived much sooner than we expected. and the only mitigation options adopted so far have been low cost or even negative cost choices like energy efficiency and abandoning coal (more than justified by the health costs of particulate pollution). that doesn’t mean discount rates are completely irrelevant. if we manage to decarbonize the global economy by 2050, benefits will keep accruing well after that. but even if we stopped the analysis at 2050, we would still have a substantial net benefit. the likely cost of near-complete decarbonization now looks to be less than a two per cent reduction in national income. reducing the frequency and severity of disasters like the bushfires will more than offset that. driving across the uncanny valley by john quiggin on february 5, 2020 in may last year, i posted a tally of successful and unsuccessful predictions, and was challenged in comments on my optimistic views about self-driving cars. i’ve said all i can about the fire apocalypse for now, so i thought i might check how things were going. that’s motivated largely by the belief that autonomous vehicles will almost certainly be electric, a view shared by gm ceo mary barro, according to this report. the same report points to missed deadlines and delays, mostly caused by a small number of high-profile fatalities, all but one associated with teslas on autopilot (level 2 technology in the jargon) that slowed things down enough to falsify my predictions. neverthless, gm is now petitioning the national highway traffic safety administration to allow up to 2500 completely driverless (no steering wheel or pedals) on the roads. at the same time, google subsidiary waymo claims to have started commercial operations of fully driverless (they prefer the term “rider only”) taxi services in its test area in the suburbs of phoenix. these are both small scale programs. the significance lies in the fact that they cross the uncanny valley of almost driverless (level 3) technology with a human safety driver. the high-profile fatal crash that slowed things down in 2018 was caused by a distracted safety driver, and there’s no obvious way to overcome the problem of distraction in a vehicle that almost always drives itself. the waymo and gm vehicles are level 4, capable of operating without any human intervention, but only in limited conditions (flat, sunny, arizona suburbs). but, if the jump to fully driverless operation succeeds, it’s a matter of incremental steps to larger operating areas, a wider range of weather conditions and so forth. given that they are being held to much higher standards than human drivers (who killed over 36000 people in 2018 without attracting much attention) the developers of avs will have to be ultracautious in relaxing their operating constraints. but crossing the uncanny valley is the crucial step. if they succeed in that, the rest is a matter of time. more news from the apocalypse by john quiggin on january 30, 2020 i’m still writing furiously (in both senses of the word) about climate change, the fire disaster in australia and the responsibility the entire political right bears for this catastrophe, along with those of the centre and left who have shirked the struggle. australian writer richard flanagan, in the new york times, has compared our leaders to famous traitors like benedict arnold, vidkun quisling and mir jafar, and that’s a pretty good summary of how large numbers of australians feel. over the fold, links to some of my latest commentary [click to continue…] libertarians can’t save the planet by john quiggin on january 27, 2020 as promised, my article on climate change and the death of libertarianism/propertarianism, in jacobin. conclusion global warming is the ultimate refutation of lockean propertarianism. no one can pump greenhouse gases into the atmosphere while leaving “enough and as good” for everyone else. it has taken thirty years, but this undeniable fact has finally killed the propertarian movement in the united states. climate change and the strange death of libertarianism by john quiggin on january 18, 2020 it wasn’t that long ago that everyone was talking about the “libertarian moment” in the us. now, libertarianism/propertarianism is pretty much dead. the support base, advocacy groups and so on have gone full trumpists, while the intellectual energy has shifted to “liberaltarianism” or, a more recent variant, tyler cowen’s conversion to “state capacity libertarianism“. most of those departing to the left have mentioned the failure of libertarianism to handle climate change. it was critical for two reasons. first, any serious propertarian response would have required support ofr the creation of new property rights (emissions permits) and the restriction of existing ones (burning carbon). that would imply an acknowledgement that property rights are not natural relations between people (owners) and things (property). they are socially constructed relationships between people, allowing some people to use things and to stop other people from doing so. second, the effort to deny the necessary implications of climate change inevitably resulted in denial of the scientific evidence that climate change was occurring. that contributed to a situation where most former libertarians are now trumpists, happy to deny the evidence of their own eyes if that’s what the leader requires of them. i’m working on a longer article spelling all this out. in the meantime, comments welcome. consumed by fire by john quiggin on january 11, 2020 it’s been hard to think straight with the fires that have burned through most of australia for months. brisbane was among the first places affected, with the loss of the historic binna burra lodge, on the edge of a rainforest, a place where no one expected a catastrophic fire. but, as it turned out, we got off easy compared to the rest of the country. heavy rain in early december helped to put out the fires in queensland, and we can expect the delayed arrival of the monsoon in the near future. by contrast, southern australia normally has hot, dry summers and this has been the hottest driest year ever. the increased likelihood of catastrophic fire seasons was evident when i started work on this topic back in 2012 [1], and the risks for this year were pointed out to the government months in advance. the warnings went unheeded for two reasons. first, the government had been re-elected partly on the basis of a promise (economically nonsensical, but politically powerful) to return the budget to surplus. any serious action to prepare for and respond to a bushfire catastrophe would wipe that out, as indeed has almost certainly happened now. second, any serious assessment would have to focus on the fact that climate change is causing large-scale losses in australia right now. the government is a combination of denialists and do-nothingists, neither of whom are willing to address the issue. of course, australia is only a small part of the problem. our government’s policies are helping to promote climate catastrophes in the us, brazil and other places, and theirs are returning the favor. a policy shift in any one of these countries, with no change elsewhere, would make little difference to the country concerned. that’s the nature of a collective action problem. but on any ordinary understanding of justice, we are reaping what we, and the governments we’ve elected, have sown. over the fold, some links to pieces i’ve written on this topic. [click to continue…] intersectionality vs dominant identity politics* by john quiggin on december 31, 2019 shorter jq: although the idea of intersectionality emerged on the left as a solution to problems involving class and identity politics, it turns out to the be the natural response to the rise of dominant identity politics on the right. as i see it, intersectionality combines a recognition that people are oppressed both through the economic structures of capitalism and as members of various subordinate groups with a rejection of both: “essentialist” identity politics, based on the claim that some particular aspect of identity (gender, race, sexuality, disability etc) should trump all others; and “working class” politics, presented as a politics of universal liberation, but reduced by the failure of revolutionary marxism to another kind of identity politics (i took this formulation from don arthur on twitter. i had something to say about class and marxism a while back) the point about intersectionality is that there many kinds of oppression and injustice, and they interact in complex, more than additive, ways. the resulting political strategy for the left is not so much that of a “rainbow coalition” of distinct identity groups but a kaleidoscope in which different facets come to the fore at different times and places. now think about dominant/default identity politics (i’ll use the us/australian version, but other versions can be obtained just by changing the dominant identity). the key idea, is that well-off, white, christian men are being oppressed by virtue of challenges to their natural position of dominance, and rejection of their natural expectation of deference. the central claim is also addressed to white christian women, particularly married women, who are assumed to identify their interests with those of their families. looked at this way, the claims of dominant/default identity politics are the exact opposite of those underlying intersectionality. the more someone deviates from the “typical” american/australian, the more they are seen as benefiting unfairly from social welfare systems, anti-discrimination policy and so on. the right (along with much of the centrist commentariat,least until recently) at mostly fails to understand its relationship with intersectionality, in two ways. first, they mostly don’t recognise their own politics as identity politics, though this is changing. this recognition is welcome for overt white supremacists, but more problematic for those who want to retain the illusion that their movement is based on broad ideological principles. second, they miss the point of intersectionality completely, seeing it as just old-style identity politics on steroids. that’s unsurprising, since they never paid much attention to disputes within the left over class and identity politics, and have used “identity politics” as a rhetorical cudgel. how will all this develop? as white christians become a minority, the implied political strategy is a combination of political mobilization for rightwing whites and voter suppression for everyone else. if this succeeds, we’ll be well on the path to dictatorship. if it fails, the right will need to expand the notion of acceptable identity, a path proposed, and then abandoned, after their 2012 election defeat. as usual from me, amateur analysis, probably unoriginal and possibly wrong. feel free to point this out in comments. tolerance, acceptance, deference, dominance by john quiggin on december 27, 2019 warning: amateur sociological/political analysis ahead i’ve been thinking about the various versions of and critiques of identity politics that are around at the moment. in its most general form, identity politics involves (i) a claim that a particular group is not being treated fairly and (ii) a claim that members of that group should place political priority on the demand for fairer treatment. but “fairer” can mean lots of different things. i’m trying to think about this using contrasts between the set of terms in the post title. a lot of this is unoriginal, but i’m hoping i can say something new. starting from the left (in more senses than one), tolerance involves the removal of legal barriers to being recognised as a participating member of the community, with legal freedom from persecution, voting rights, property rights and so on. women, gays, religious minorities and people of colour have all had to struggle to obtain this recognition. but, as has been pointed out many times, mere legal tolerance is demeaning and discriminatory. identity politics involves a demand not merely for tolerance but for acceptance. jumping to the right, the idea of tolerance implies the existence of a dominant group that does the tolerating, either as a result of moral suasion or as a response to political pressure. moving from tolerance to acceptance implies an erosion of that dominance. it becomes unacceptable for members of the formerly dominant group to express or act on the view that the other group is inferior: such views, once expressed openly without fear of adverse consequences, are now criticised as racist, misogynistic, homophobic. the most difficult term in the series is deference. in sociology/anthropology, it’s typically used in counterpoint with “dominance”, as the attitude displayed by one submitting to dominance. but in the context of identity politics, i think there’s something more subtle going on. members of the formerly dominant group may be willing to extend acceptance to others, but they still expect a kind of deference in return. most obviously, they expect to be treated as the default identity for the community as a whole, as “typical”, “real”, “true”, americans, australians, finns or whatever. when that expectation of deference is not fulfilled, the choices are to accept the new situation, or to support what might be called default identity politics. more or less inevitably, that implies an alliance with those who want to reassert or restore the group’s dominant position: racists, theocrats, and so on, depending on which aspect of the dominant identity is being challenged. that makes default identity politics a “double or nothing” bet. if it’s political successful, it’s dragged further and further towards entrenched minority rule by members of the dominant racial or religous group, and typically towards some form of personal dictatorship. if it’s unsuccessful, the divisions it creates risks a reversal of the previous order. instead of being accepted as one element of a diverse community, the formerly dominant group becomes the object of hostility and derision. the signs of that are certainly evident, particularly in relation to the culture wars around religion. ← older entries recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter