coursera header community help center write post login sticky join the coursera beta tester community 1 year ago 18 october 2018 0 replies 60503 views userlevel 7 +9 claire community manager 197 replies what is the beta tester community? the beta tester community is a great group of learners who help to make coursera courses better for everyone. we beta test courses in all different subjects so any learner with some spare time who is interested in getting early access to courses is welcome to join! what do members do? beta testers review courses before they launch and then provide feedback to the course teams so they can make improvements. do members need to commit to anything? no! new courses become available for testing each week and members are welcome to pick and choose which courses to test, or to not participate that week at all. join the beta tester community! after you provide your information, you should receive an invitation to join the community sometime in the next 2 weeks. coursera community manager beta tester community beta testers beta testing like share tweet share share this topic has been closed for comments powered by insided sign up already have an account? login log in with coursera username * e-mail address * get emails with community news (once a month or less) (private) only you and moderators can see this information * yes no job title organization role student/learneradministratorchancellordeandepartment or program chairfacultyprovostvice chancellorother country about me password * i accept the terms & conditions loginbox.register.email_repeat register login to the community log in with coursera enter your username or e-mail address. we'll send you an e-mail with instructions to reset your password. username or e-mail reply back to overview scanning file for viruses. sorry, we're still checking this file's contents to make sure it's safe to download. please try again in a few minutes. ok this file cannot be downloaded sorry, our virus scanner detected that this file isn't safe to download. ok cookie policy we use cookies to enhance and personalize your experience. if you accept you agree to our full cookie policy. learn more about our cookies. accept cookies cookie settings × cookie settings we use 3 different kinds of cookies. you can choose which cookies you want to accept. we need basic cookies to make this site work, therefore these are the minimum you can select. learn more about our cookies. basic functional normal functional + analytics complete functional + analytics + social media + embedded videos accept cookies coursera footer coursera provides universal access to the world’s best education, partnering with top universities and organizations to offer courses online. © 2020 coursera inc. all rights reserved. coursera about leadership careers catalog for business for government for refugees community learners partners translators developers beta testers connect blog facebook linkedin twitter google+ tech blog more terms privacy help accessibility press contact directory affiliates