skip to content skip to content menu start here blog podcast about categories ideas online business blogging self-publishing freelancing service businesses consulting coaching ecommerce amazon fba investing real estate peer-to-peer lending saving money hustle 101 productivity progress reports join the nation! side hustle nation is a growing community of hard-working entrepreneurs. our interests are broad and our projects vary, but we're united by the common goal of financial freedom. won't you join us? what's a side hustle? a side hustle is something you do to earn money outside a traditional job. maybe that's an economic necessity for you. maybe it's an act of rebellion against "the system." maybe it's just plain fun. whatever it is, it's empowering. when you think of the word “hustle,” what comes to mind? i’ve found it has two very different connotations: one positive — “he’s not the biggest guy on the court but he sure shows a lot of hustle!” and one negative — “i got hustled by that used car salesman!” the type of hustle i’m talking about is the former: getting more done with less having a "finisher’s” attitude playing for the love of the game not: ripping people off easy money mind-numbing work the first step to building a successful side hustle is to get the mindset right. without the optimistic, can-do, make-something-happen attitude, it’s really difficult to find the positive energy required to build the business. for me, "hustle" is about taking back control of your own effort and your own financial health and well-being. no one else is going to do it for you. if you’re the down-on-your-luck, woe-is-me victim of life, i’ll be 100% honest: this whole side hustle thing probably isn’t going to work out for you. it starts with attitude. the good news is attitude is free, and it’s equal-opportunity; everyone has access to the hustle mindset. for more on this, please see: is it worth it? the journey is the destination the 3 laws of side hustle physics so, what can i expect to learn here? the side hustle nation blog and the side hustle show podcast showcase legit part-time business ideas. that means: real people are seeing real results. you can start with whatever spare time you have. you don't need a huge startup investment. through my own experiments and through the stories of my guests, i attempt to reverse engineer the successful strategies of making money. we share not just the ideas, concepts, and theories, but the nuts and bolts and step-by-step tactics of how to actually get paid -- without a boss. it takes real work, but it does work. people in this community just like you are making it happen. young? old? doesn't matter. are you in? here are 3 ways to join the nation 1. join the 60,000+ fellow hustlers who get my best stuff via email. no spam ever, unsubscribe any time. 2. join the free side hustle nation facebook community. you’ll find a helpful and supportive group of people who “get” you. 3. subscribe to the side hustle show for actionable and inspiring part-time business tips every week. next... after you've done those 3 things to join the nation, here's your homework: visit this list of 99 side hustle ideas or this list of 200+ ways to make money in your spare time, and pick one. just one for right now, but you have to take action on it. after all, it's not side-read-and-do-nothing-nation! once you've made your first side hustle dollar, reply to the email i just sent you and let me know how you got it done. didn't get an email from me yet? you must have skipped step 1 above. here's another chance. whack the i'm a hustler button below to get started: i'm a hustler! hustle on! -nick like that? there's more! join the 65,000 who get my best stuff via email i'll also send you my free guide: the 5 fastest ways to make more money. please enter your name. please enter a valid email address. i'm a hustler! you're in! make sure to check your email (including spam/promotions) for your free welcome gift. something went wrong. please check your entries and try again. usually hustling, occasionally social contact books write for us sponsor media terms of use | privacy | disclaimer | ccpa | do not sell my personal information © 2020 sidehustlenation.com we use cookies to to make sure you have the best experience on our website. cool?ok