skip to content skip to footer nia shanks health and fitness information that doesn't suck newsletter start here starter guide finally get results course articles all articles audio articles about shop books workout programs apparel login my profile “the only fitness ‘guru’ i still see in my inbox!” most health and fitness newsletters are terrible, but you probably already know this. this one is not. “nia, you are the only fitness ‘guru’ i still see in my inbox! everybody is sent to my archive folder so i can seem them if i want to (but i never do).” -nancy receive updates for the newest content, jump start your empowering health and fitness journey with the short introduction email course (devoid of the usual nonsense), insider-only information reserved exclusively for the newsletter, and a discount for workout programs and courses in the shop. “seriously, the voice of wisdom in the otherwise typically crazy, frenetic world of ‘working out.’ thank you!” -teri enter your email below and let’s get started. if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. fields marked with a * are required. if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. “so glad that you cut through the garbage out there and give it to us straight.” -melodie “i’ve been doing the mini course since january and i cannot believe the results i’ve gotten. i feel so strong and so fit … i love the simplicity of the mini course and the minimal amount of time it takes to get in and out of the gym.” -cristina c. “i just wanted to let you know that you are basically the only fitness person i follow anymore. i am so happy to have finally found a source that is straightforward and no nonsense.” -lindsey your privacy matters. your information will never be given away or sold. you will receive emails that announce when new content is published, exclusive insider-only information, and you’ll be notified when new programs are released. footer if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. fields marked with a * are required. join the revolution get updates, insider-only information, and a free gift. if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. facebook instagram twitter youtube search this website © 2020 nia shanks · privacy policy · disclaimer newsletter you’re here for a reason contact store