skip to content sections the corner bench memos the morning jolt the tuesday news books, arts & manners all articles authors podcasts photos games videos podcasts the editors mad dogs & englishmen give me liberty the mccarthy report victor davis hanson for life political beats constitutionally speaking the great books the bookmonger radio free california ordered liberty photos news & events cartoons culture military science & technology sports world magazine latest issue archive subscribe give nr as a gift customer care nrplus topics politics & policy elections culture white house film & tv pc culture u.s. world immigration economy & business about faq about us the masthead emails & alerts wine club careers advertise donate contact us privacy policy terms of service nr institute search send a tip instagram primary menu national review large national review logo small national review logo donate the corner ... subscribe search national review search text mar. 27, 2020 subscribe ... jonah goldberg follow @jonahdispatch get author's rss feed jonah goldberg is a national review contributing editor. read more jonah goldberg is a a national review contributing editor. a bestselling author and columnist, he is editor in chief of the dispatch, and he holds the asness chair in applied liberty at the american enterprise institute. his nationally syndicated column appears regularly in scores of newspapers across the united states. he was the founding editor of national review online. the atlantic magazine identified goldberg as one of the top 50 political commentators in america. in 2011 he was named the robert j. novak journalist of the year at the conservative political action conference (cpac). he has written on politics, media, and culture for a wide variety of publications and has appeared on numerous television and radio programs. he is the author of the tyranny of clichés, liberal fascism, and suicide of the west. the latest u.s. dems shouldn’t use crisis as justification for a spending spree by jonah goldberg 6:30 am if you want to persuade normal americans to take a crisis seriously, you have a moral obligation to act as if you take it seriously, too. u.s. how will the coronavirus crisis reshape american politics? by jonah goldberg march 25, 2020 the current crisis already shows signs of touching off big, lasting changes in our two major parties’ agendas. world coronavirus is more fodder for chinese propaganda by jonah goldberg march 20, 2020 the media’s obsession with proving trump is racist because he calls it the ‘chinese coronavirus’ is perfectly in sync with the communists’ propaganda effort. elections biden doesn’t have to let sanders pull him leftward by jonah goldberg march 18, 2020 he should emphasize replacing trump, which is the unifying message for all of his potential voters. politics & policy debating coronavirus terminology is a waste of energy by jonah goldberg march 13, 2020 using the virus to advance an anti-china agenda, as well as using it to decry ‘racism,’ look like desperate efforts to exploit a crisis. white house coronavirus appears to be immune to trump’s powers by jonah goldberg march 11, 2020 trump’s unwavering braggadocio is entertaining (to some) when the stakes are low, but it’s unnerving during a public-health crisis. elections republicans aren’t the only ones too quick to cry ‘coup!’ by jonah goldberg march 6, 2020 bernie sanders supporters' claims that the nomination is being stolen from him prove that an unearned sense of entitlement is a bipartisan phenomenon. elections 2020 proves early voting is a terrible idea by jonah goldberg march 4, 2020 some things are worth making as easy as possible. voting is not one of them. elections bernie still gives way too much credit to authoritarianism by jonah goldberg february 28, 2020 authoritarianism in one form or another kept most of humanity poor for hundreds of thousands of years. elections why aren’t democrats issuing a sanders alert? by jonah goldberg february 26, 2020 it’s in the interest of all the democratic candidates to see him destroyed, but it’s in no one’s individual interest to play the role of destroyer. load more stories from this section load more top stories photo essays 2 view slide show cartoons cartoons of the day: march 27, 2020 114 view slide show news & events deserted cityscapes 58 view slide show news & events social distancing more in photos facebook twitter ... © 2020 national review donate subscribe sections the corner bench memos the morning jolt the g-file news books, arts & manners all articles all authors podcasts photos games videos topics politics & policy culture white house film & tv pc culture u.s. world immigration economy & business elections magazine latest issue archive subscribe gve nr as a gift customer care nrplus about frequently asked questions about us the masthead contact us careers privacy policy terms of service nr institute more advertise donate search e-mails & alerts send a tip newsletters morning jolt (m-f) nr daily (m-sa) breaking news (m-su) email © 2020 national review close ad close national review navigation loading...