search input field. ims facebook ims instagram ims twitter ims youtube news contact us donate toggle open the search bar. about mission and values diversity and inclusion board of directors annual report ims history faqs about ims virtual tours tour our centers 1976–1986 1986–1996 1996-2006 2006–present retreats your ims retreat—what to expect schedules retreat center 2020 forest refuge 2020 retreat center dana (generosity) fees financial assistance self retreats ce credits fellowships available forest refuge dana (generosity) fees financial assistance guidelines application process work retreats retreat center forest refuge getting here food and accommodations faqs about retreats pay your balance teachers retreat center teachers 2020 forest refuge teachers 2020 teacher training program our new teacher village teacher code of ethics generosity teacher support ims support one-time gift monthly giving financial assistance meal dana planned giving stock transfers gift certificates learn benefits of meditation interested in a retreat? testimonials get involved staff life benefits code of conduct sangha program openings job application volunteering day-to-day special retreats month-long volunteer program resources audio ride share recipes reading list glossary insight meditation centers and communities diversity resources outside resources local meditation group search input field. toggle navigation menu. toggle open the search bar. about mission and values diversity and inclusion board of directors annual report ims history faqs about ims virtual tours tour our centers 1976–1986 1986–1996 1996-2006 2006–present retreats your ims retreat—what to expect schedules retreat center 2020 forest refuge 2020 retreat center dana (generosity) fees financial assistance self retreats ce credits fellowships available forest refuge dana (generosity) fees financial assistance guidelines application process work retreats retreat center forest refuge getting here food and accommodations faqs about retreats pay your balance teachers retreat center teachers 2020 forest refuge teachers 2020 teacher training program our new teacher village teacher code of ethics generosity teacher support ims support one-time gift monthly giving financial assistance meal dana planned giving stock transfers gift certificates learn benefits of meditation interested in a retreat? testimonials get involved staff life benefits code of conduct sangha program openings job application volunteering day-to-day special retreats month-long volunteer program resources audio ride share recipes reading list glossary insight meditation centers and communities diversity resources outside resources local meditation group news contact us donate ims facebook ims instagram ims twitter ims youtube ims teacher joseph goldstein listen to a featured talk november 19, 2008 liberation through non-clinging your browser doesn't support html5 audio. here is a link to the audio instead. listen to more talks ims teacher joseph goldstein listen to a featured talk november 19, 2008 liberation through non-clinging your browser doesn't support html5 audio. here is a link to the audio instead. listen to more talks joseph goldstein has been leading insight and lovingkindness meditation retreats worldwide since 1974. he is a cofounder of the insight meditation society in barre, massachusetts, where he is one of the organization’s guiding teachers. in 1989, together with several other teachers and students of insight meditation, he helped establish the barre center for buddhist studies. joseph first became interested in buddhism as a peace corps volunteer in thailand in 1965. since 1967 he has studied and practiced different forms of buddhist meditation under eminent teachers from india, burma and tibet. he is the author of mindfulness: a practical guide to awakening, a heart full of peace, one dharma: the emerging western buddhism, insight meditation: the practice of freedom, the experience of insight, and co-author of seeking the heart of wisdom and insight meditation: a correspondence course. outside events new york insight • wisdom and compassion: guiding our life • daylong retreat april 26 west side loft at 163 bank st, 3rd floor new york, ny learn more spirit rock • july insight meditation retreat • 9-day retreat july 17 – july 26 spirit rock meditation center woodacre, ma learn more garrison institute • experiencing insight & love • weekend retreat with sharon salzberg september 17 – september 20 garrison institute garrison, ny learn more big think podcast: doubt comes masquerading as wisdom host jason gots interviews joseph goldstein in a conversation about struggle, doubt, and growth on the spiritual path. listen here. joseph goldstein—wisdom for troubled times for many of us, the current environment, magnified by 24-hour news outlets and social media, has created a level of stress, fear and anger that impacts our lives and relationships. how can we meet these challenges with a clear mind and an open heart? ims co-founder and renowned meditation teacher joseph goldstein discusses the two qualities of mind—equanimity and compassion—that enable us to unhook from reactivity and engage the world with purpose and hope. mindfulness: what it is and is not cfm guest lecture series—november 19, 2014 at the center for mindfulness in medicine, health care, and society, shrewsbury, ma featured books mindfulness: a practical guide to awakening view publication mindfulness: six guided practices for awakening (cd/audio download; companion to the book) view recording a heart full of peace view publication one dharma view publication the experience of insight view publication insight meditation: the practice of freedom view publication selected interviews think again – a big think podcast—january 12, 2019 honoring diversity in the dharma—tricycle magazine february 1, 2018 deep dimensions of mindfulness, part 1—tami simon, sounds true february 4, 2014 deeper dimensions of mindfulness, part 2—tami simon, sounds true february 11, 2014 i have two main aims in teaching. the first is to spread the dharma as widely as possible, offering it to as many different people as i can. the second is to teach a smaller number of people over sustained periods of time. this in-depth teaching engages my tremendous love for intensive, long-term meditation practice, where people can immerse themselves in the retreat experience and see how it transforms their understanding. joseph goldstein join our mailing list this form needs javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. sign up here instead support our teachers and our centers donate now thank you for your kindness! 1230 pleasant street, barre ma 01005 retreat center: 978-355-4378 forest refuge: 978-355-2063 helpful links benefits of meditation current news faqs about ims food and accommodations glossary job openings pay your balance recipes retreat center fees retreat center schedule 2020 ride share teacher talks and meditations your retreat barre center for buddhist studies follow us: ims facebook ims instagram ims twitter ims youtube about retreats teachers generosity learn get involved resources copyright © 2020 insight meditation society | privacy policy | designed by eri design this website uses cookies to improve your experience. we'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. view privacy policysettingsaccept privacy & cookies policy privacy overview this website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. we also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. these cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. you also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. but opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. privacy overview this website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. we also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. these cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. you also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. but opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. necessary always enabled necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. this category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. these cookies do not store any personal information. non-necessary non-necessary any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. it is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.