home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox food and drink product reviews prevnext july 2019 picnic degusta box review leyla preston wed 21st aug 2019 2shares share tweet pin another great month of delicious edible goodies from degusta box, which features the following brands this month: mister free’d vegan tortilla chips with beetroot – £1.99 rowntrees® randoms® squish’ems & sours sharing bags – £1.29 deli kitchen greek style flatbreads – £1.35 frank’s redhot original cayenne – £1.50 ravish pineapple & yuzu salsa – £1.50 kallo belgium milk chocolate rice cake minis – £1.99 monin butterscotch coffee syrup – £3 new ribena frusion – £2 ape snacks coconut bites sesame seed – £1.49 simply cook piri piri chicken 3 step meal kit – £2.50 here is the link to the full background of the degusta box and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degusta box-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degusta box/ but, for a quick recap, degusta box is an online retail service that offers a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. get your first box for just £1!! but lucky readers like yourself can enjoy your first box for just £1 up to and including 31st august 2019, so hurry before you the summer offer runs out! products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degusta box here: http://tidd.ly/8f140077 you can stay updated via degusta box’s social networks too: facebook – https://www.facebook.com/degustaboxuk/ twitter – https://twitter.com/degustaboxuk instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers can receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degusta box has recently introduced db discoveries to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: what’s in july 2019’s degusta box? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degusta box below: products mister free’d vegan tortilla chips with beetroot – £1.99 rowntrees® randoms® squish’ems & sours sharing bags deli kitchen greek style flatbreads – £1.35 frank’s redhot original cayenne – £1.50 new ribena frusion – £2 kallo belgium milk chocolate rice cake minis – £1.99 monin butterscotch coffee syrup – £3 ape snacks coconut bites sesame seed – £1.49 simply cook piri piri chicken 3 step meal kit – £2.50 ravish pineapple & yuzu salsa what did i like most about july 2019’s degusta box? rating: reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (8 years old) aidan (7 years old) what’s in july 2019’s degusta box? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degusta box below: products mister free’d vegan tortilla chips with beetroot – £1.99 “our chips have strong flavours and a perfect snap with that little extra that keeps you coming back. that’s the mister fee’d way! beetroot combined with our corn base to provide a beautiful pink chip with plant-based goodness. the vegetable flavour is a big appeal to the vegan community. *available at wholefoods market, at nature intended, planet organic, wh smith and local independents.” our opinion – i made beetroot crisps a while ago and even though they didn’t come out as crisp as this packaged version, they tasted very similar to these crisps which means that these taste very authentic – i.e. like beetroot and onion! the kids tried a few and even though they weren’t disgusted by the taste, they weren’t all too excited to finish the pack. i, on the other hand, loved them and would be keen to eat these crisps as opposed to the high salt, high fat counterparts. 4.5/5 rowntrees® randoms® squish’ems & sours sharing bags “let your random side out with ever pack of completed unpredictabe rowntrees® randoms! have the best of both worlds with our rowntree’s® rnadoms® squish’ems, squishy foam and fruity jelly all in one osweet. or, give your senses a zingy kick with our delightfully sour, quirky and completely unpredictable rowntree’s® randoms® sours! *you should receive 2 items in your box.” our opinion – damn these delicious rowntrees® randoms® – i can never stop at just one! i especially loved the sours and when i go for the non-sour versions, i love the squishy haribo style foamy sweets – so these were perfect to my taste. the boys loved closing their eyes and picking out the random shapes, like a hairbrush, watermelon, and garden rake for example. there are all sorts in there! hence why they are called randoms® 5/5 deli kitchen greek style flatbreads – £1.35 “get a taste of the sun-soaked mediterranean this summer with deli kitchen’s new greek style flatbreads. fluffy, filling and easy to fold – ideal for creating appetising homemade kebabs or falafel wraps. mix up mealties, enjoy and be transported to somewhere sunnier through good food this summer. *please note this is a ‘fresh’ product. to store, you can pop it in your freezer. available in sainsbury’s.” our opinion – these were so fluffy and tasty that i decided to try them out in a salsa style wrap dinner, along with the ravish pineapple & yuzu salsa that i received in the degusta box too. i made a bean stir fry and added some cheese on top and the boys absolutely loved them. i really enjoyed them too – they definitely reminded me of the mediterranean style pittas i get when i am in north cyprus! 5/5 frank’s redhot original cayenne – £1.50 “frank’s redhot original cayenne pepper sauce is made with a premium blend of aged cayenne peppers that add a kick of heat and a whole lot of flavour to any bbq. it’s a great taste made it the secret ingredient in the original buffalo wings created in buffalo, ny, in 1964. *available in the major supermarket chains.” our opinion – i didn’t try this sauce as i’m not a spice person anyway, and i’m heavily pregnant (my poor baby!) my husband tried a bit on his meat dish and he said that it was quite spicy. when my friend tried it she said it wasn’t spicy at all! but each said that it went very well with meat, so if they make a mild version, i’d be glad to try it! 3.5/5 new ribena frusion – £2 “ribena frusion is a refreshing and delicate blackcurrant water, naturally infused with real fruits and crafted botanicals. frusion contains sweeteners, is low in calories and rich in antioxidant vitamin c which helps protect your cells from oxidative stress. *available now froma range of retailers in 420ml and 1 litre bottles. sainsbury’s, asda, coop, boots, morrisons, and independent retailers.” our opinion – this drink is basically ribena but diluted already, so you don’t need to add water. it has a very light blackcurrant flavour and tastes very refreshing. but, for £2 you can fill up around 4 to 6 drinks and the bottle is finished. so i would prefer to get squash which has the same natural benefits but can be diluted to last for longer. 3.5/5 kallo belgium milk chocolate rice cake minis – £1.99 “here at kallo, we don’t think being healthy means saying no to all the things you love. eating the right way is about loving food, life and chocolate! 4pk milk chocolate mini rice cakes for munching on the move: 104 calories per portion, gluten free, no artificials and vegetarian friendly. *available at tesco, sainsbury’s, waitrose, and many others.” our opinion – i love rice cakes and these chocolatey rice cakes were absolutely delicious! the boys particularly love chocolate rice cakes too and these small bite-sized rice cake minis are perfect for lunchboxes – i agree to indulge in the things you love in the right way! 5/5 monin butterscotch coffee syrup – £3 “recreate the coffee shop experience in your own home by stirring 2 – 3 teaspoons of monin syrup into your hot or iced coffee. used and trusted by coffee shops around the world the popular butterscotch flavour is available for a limited time in the hot beverage aisle of selected sainsbury’s stores..” our opinion – i can’t drink coffee at the moment as i’m pregnant, so i tried it in tea and it tasted really nice. you don’t need 2 to 3 teaspoons, 1 is enough to make it sweet. i also tried the coffee syrup in my kids’ fruit smoothies and it added a really nice taste to it. 4/5 ape snacks coconut bites sesame seed – £1.49 “the clever combination of coconut and natural additions, like cocoa and super seeds, make our bites delicious and totally unique. baked to perfection and with a satisfying crunch, they make the perfect snack to help fuel your day ahead or to cure a coconut craving. *you should receive 1 item per box. available at sainbury’s, tesco, ocado, whole foods market” our opinion – these were absolutely delicious. i love coconut snacks and these tasted amazing that i ate them in almost one sitting! the boys loved them too. i would definitely get these again. they have a very coconutty taste and the seeds added that extra crunch. perfect and bite-sized. 5/5 simply cook piri piri chicken 3 step meal kit – £2.50 “cook restaurant quality meals at home in just 20 minutes! just combine our chef blended authentic falvour blends with your own fesh ingredients. discover our full range from around the world at simplycook.com *choose 4 recipes for just £1 including free letter box friendly delivery with code ‘dgyum’ at simplycook.com. now also avialable at selected waitrose and sainsbury’s” our opinion – this is such a great idea and i would have loved to have created a lovely dish, but it is too spicy for the kids so i haven’t used it yet. great concept though! you just use the different spices to create a sauce for your dish. 3.5/5 ravish pineapple & yuzu salsa “make food boredom a thing of the past with this super tasty pineapple & yuzu salsa. this tangy relish will leave your taste buds feeling absolutely tropical. dollop some on a burger or on tacos to give your food a serious upgrade. “available at tesco and waitrose.” our opinion – this salsa is absolutely delicious! it tastes a bit like sweet chutney and goes great with crackers and feta cheese, as well as the bean wraps i made (see above). love this! 5/5 what did i like most about july 2019’s degusta box? the pineapple & yuzu salsa and the ape coconut bites were absolutely delicious and i would definitely buy them again! rating: 4 out of 5 – a nice varied selection of products this month. it was nice to find some items to help cook dinner or make a picnic, so i’d love more helpful items for cooking recipes in the degusta box next month, please! great snacks too! leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:degusta boxproduct reviews related posts march 2019 degusta box review our family fun package stay at the arch ... january 2016 – degustabox product ... march 2016 – degustabox product re... february 2020 degusta box review – easte... april 2017 degustabox review june 2015 – picnic degustabox product re... oxo good grips multiple product review a... may picnic 2017 degustabox review chillfactor squeeze cup slushy maker ... tutakids’ black nebbati coat review plus... walkers mighty lights review about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 2shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok