home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox food and drink product reviews prevnext july summer 2017 degustabox review leyla preston thu 24th aug 2017 7shares share tweet pin another great month of delicious edible goodies from degustabox, which features the following brands this month: rowntree’s randoms 30% less sugar blossom hill spritz crafted mango & passionfruit ryvita thins three cheese weetabix additions – coconut & raisin thor drinks – dry apple spritz frylight cooking spray with avocado oil maille dijon original mustard the collective pro-yo high protein yoghurts merchant gourmet simply cooked red & white quinoa oloves healthy olive snacks – chili & oregano here is the link to the full background of the degustabox and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degustabox-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degustabox/ but, for a quick recap, degustabox is an online retail service that offers a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. but lucky customers like yourself will receive a £7.00 discount when signing up for your first degustabox by inserting discount code bldeg15 at the checkout. products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degustabox here: http://bit.ly/dbhomepage. you can stay updated via degustabox’s social networks too: facebook – http://bit.ly/dbukfacebook twitter – http://bit.ly/dbuktwitter instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers can receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degustabox has recently introduced db discoveries to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: review: what’s in july 2017’s summer themed degustabox? check out our unboxing video below: products rowntree’s randoms 30ess sugar blossom hill spritz – raspberry & blackcurrant crafted mango & passionfruit ryvita thins three cheese flatbreads weetabix additions – coconut & raisin thor dry apple spritz frylight cooking spray with avocado oil maille dijon original mustard merchant gourmet – simply cooked red & white quinoa oloves healthy olive snacks – chili & oregano what did i like most about july’s summer themed degustabox? rating: never miss a new post!don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy! reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (6 years old) aidan (5 years old) review: what’s in july 2017’s summer themed degustabox? check out our unboxing video below: products rowntree’s randoms 30% less sugar “30% less, 100% fruity flavour! the sweets you know and love but now with 30% less sugar. remains free from artificial flavours, colours and sweeteners so you can chew with confidence! give 30% less sugar fruit pastilles a try, available in a 110g sharing bag and 38g bag. to find out more, visit our website below. *the 110g sharing bag was included in the degustabox. http://www.facebook.com/rowntrees https://twitter.com/rowntrees http://www.rowntrees.co.uk“ our opinion – super tasty, of course, because they’re rowntree’s randoms. these are my favourite kind of sweets because they’re so soft and chewy. but, even though they contain 30% less sugar, they are still just like little sugar balls. we try to keep these kinds of sweets out of the house, so little hands cannot get to them – or mine! 3.5/5 blossom hill spritz – raspberry & blackcurrant “try blossom hill spritz for a fresh and fruity twist on wine! lightly bubbly with natural fruit flavours, blossom hill spritz is the ultimate refreshment. best served chilled – try it over ice with your choice of mixed fruit for a longer drink! *this product was included in the alcohol version of the degustabox only. one of two flavours of blossom hill spritz was included in each degustabox. http://www.facebook.com/blossomhill http://www.instagram.com/blossomhill_uk http://www.blossomhill.com“ our opinion – hubby enjoyed this light bubbly for me and his only comment was that it was very sweet, perhaps too sweet for a beer drinker. i can imagine the elderflower & lemon alternative flavour would have been more suitable for him… – 2.5/5 crafted mango & passionfruit “creating delicious fruit juice drinks is what crafted do. we love discovering new and exciting combinations of fruit to create our distinctive blends. we carefully choose the highest quality ingredients, blending fruit with water. but we never, ever, add sugar or sweeteners. the fruits we use are sweet enough. on top of it, our drinks provide you with 1 of your 5 a day. for us it’s all about finding the perfect balance of flavours, allowing each fruit to shine through. the result? a drink that will surprise and delight your taste buds. that’s our craft. available in 4 different flavour blends. *one flavour of crafted was included in the degustabox. http://www.facebook.com/crafteddrinks https://www.twitter.com/crafteddrinks http://www.instagram.com/crafteddrinks http://www.crackerdrinks.com“ our opinion – we don’t really buy juice in our house because we prefer to drink water and eat actual fruits. but, crafted’s fruit juice in mango & passionfruit flavour did delight our taste buds! very sweet in flavour and quite thick in texture, this is a great quench-thirsting drink at a hearty bbq in the summer. – 4/5 ryvita thins three cheese flatbreads “the new ryvita thins three cheese have been designed to be your perfect snack this summer. topped with cheddar, regato and emmental cheese, this exciting and moreish variant will tempt your taste buds without needing to dip them into a salsa. just simple and delicious! http://www.facebook.com/ryvita/ https://twitter.com/ryvita http://www.instagram.com/ryvitauk http://www.ryvita.co.uk“ our opinion – these were delicious – too delicious, in fact, that ryvita didn’t make a pack big enough for myself and the boys, who also ravaged the thins in minutes. just as perfect on their own or, personally for me, they are even more delectable with some feta cheese and apple chutney. top with a tomato and you have my number 1 favourite snack in the world right now. buying these ryvita packets in abundance! 5/5 weetabix additions – coconut & raisin “new weetabix additions – the nation’s favourite cereal now with delicious fruit baked into every bite. delight your senses with a nutritious breakfast that’s packed with delicious coconut and raisins ensuring temptingly tasty goodness in every bite! http://www.facebook.com/weetabix.uk https://twitter.com/weetabix http://www.instagram.com/weetabixofficial/?hl=en http://www.weetabix.co.uk“ our opinion – sadly, i never got to try this new style of weetabix, but it looked as if the boys loved them. they are huge weetabix fans already, so to have a new style of weetabix that is sweeter without adding honey on top is a big win for the boys! 4.5/5 thor dry apple spritz “thør dry apple spritz is a range of premium sparkling apple soft drinks. refreshingly dry with a crisp and natural taste they are blended from quality natural ingredients using less sugar. there are three flavours apple, apple & ginger and apple & mint all under 70 calories per bottle. serve chilled or over ice. *this product was included in the non-alcohol version of the degustabox only. two of three flavours were included in each box. http://www.facebook.com/thordrinks https://twitter.com/thordrinks http://www.instagram.com/thordrinks/ http://www.thordrinks.com/“ our opinion – these apple spritz are predominantly apple flavoured but with a hint of mint which was delicious and ginger, which was ok. i found these to be highly carbonated and very refreshing after a heavy meal and enjoyed the mint much more than the ginger version. at under 70 calories per bottle though, they make a refreshing and healthy alternative to coca cola or other sugar infused carbonated drinks. 4/5 frylight cooking spray with avocado oil “discover true versatility with frylight avocado oil cooking spray. shallow fry, grill, roast and bake with only a few sprays – saving hundreds of calories every time. more resistant to burning than other oils, avocado is perfect for wok cooking… and it also makes perfect frylight chips! http://www.facebook.com/frylight1cal http://www.instagram.com/frylighthq/ http://www.frylight.co.uk“ our opinion – we already own the coconut oil spray version, which i use a lot when baking. it has almost finished, so i was glad to see an avocado oil alternative in this month’s degustabox, which i’ve been told is a lot healthier than coconut oil and is ideal to use during cooking. i tried it on chips, pasta, a fried egg sandwich and many other delights and the boys didn’t notice the difference, but i definitely tasted a hint of avocado in my meals! it doesn’t bother me though because avocado is my favourite fruit, so i’m happy to carry on using this spray on pretty much anything. 4/5 maille dijon original mustard “270 years of know-how, expert craftsmanship and carefully selected ingredients contribute to the exceptional quality and character that sets maille mustard apart. with countless delicious recipes, maille inspires creative food explorers to enhance the flavour of their meal with the gourmet touch of maille. particularly delicious with a perfectly cooked steak. http://www.facebook.com/maille http://www.instagram.com/maille/ http://www.maille.com/en_gb/“ our opinion – i have two jars of this mustard already – one opened and half-full and the other in the pantry waiting to be opened. i use this beautiful delicious mustard in cheese sauces, meals, salad sauces and anything that needs a kick in its sauce. it is so versatile and very little goes a long way (have you tried even a smidgen of it by itself? it will burn the lining in your throat and melt away your nose hairs!) but, like marmite, it is best enjoyed in small doses! – 5/5 merchant gourmet – simply cooked red & white quinoa “merchant gourmet’s red & white quinoa is ready to use and has been simply cooked with a dash of water and a drizzle of olive oil. its wonderfully nutty flavour works beautifully as a base to salads or as a nutritious rice/couscous alternative. http://www.facebook.com/merchantgourmet https://twitter.com/merchantgourmet http://www.instagram.com/merchantgourmet http://www.merchant-gourmet.com“ our opinion – we’re not huge quinoa people, but it does make a nice change to have a quinoa based dish instead of pasta or rice. i added a very simple tomato and onion sauce and built up the portion sizes with cous cous from the pantry so that a family of four could feed. the quinoa added a nice earthy flavour to the very simple dish and the boys had no complaints. 4/5 oloves healthy olive snacks – chili & oregano “oloves bring you the tastiest olives, freshly packed and in a range of delicious flavours. bursting with natural goodness, they’re high in loveliness and really low in calories. no stones. no fuss. just the best snack going! http://www.facebook.com/olovesofficial https://twitter.com/oloves_ http://www.instagram.com/oloves_olives/ http://www.oloves.com“ our opinion – i love olives but i rarely buy them from the shops because i don’t end up eating the whole jar and they get wasted (i’m the only one in the family who eats olives). so, i loved these snack bite versions and the chilli added a real kick to them. the boys wouldn’t have been able to try these because of the spiciness and i barely got through them, but as they say on the tin (or packet) – no stones. no fuss. 4/5 what did i like most about july’s summer themed degustabox? the ryvita thins were a clear favourite, but i am very loyal to my dijon mustard, so they both take first place. rating: 4.5 out of 5 – great box this month, it felt like a real summer-infused box. more ryvita, please! my chutney is getting lonely… never miss a new post! don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy! leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:degustaboxfood boxfood deliveryjuly 2017md reviewssummer related posts top 10 best educational christmas toys a... april 2014 – degustabox product re... january 2019 degustabox review february 2015 – degustabox product... february 2020 degusta box review – easte... june 2017 bbq degustabox review may 2018 degustabox ‘world cup’ product ... march 2015 – degustabox product re... chocolate lemon mousse with a blackberry... tips on how to cope with the heat during... how to make the most of the blackberry s... the best road trips in europe for the fa... august 2014 – degustabox product r... september 2014 – degustabox produc... february 2019 degustabox review – degust... bengal chicken curry november 2017 degustabox review january 2016 – degustabox product ... almond and blackberry biscuit squares re... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sard... january healthy box 2015 – degusta... summer berries crunch cake recipe how to enjoy a proper sit-down family me... june 2014 – degustabox product rev... may 2016 – degustabox food box – product... why we decided to use an airport car par... june 2019 summer and bbq degusta box rev... blackberry, strawberry and dark chocolat... august 2016 degustabox review degustabox review plus competition/givea... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 7shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok