home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox food and drink product reviews prevnext june 2019 summer and bbq degusta box review leyla preston tue 16th jul 2019 20shares share tweet pin another great month of delicious edible goodies from degusta box, which features the following brands this month: mystery product lentil, corn, pea and black bean tortillas- £0.50 newman’s own italian dressing – £1.75 kolibri botanical drinks strawberry & basil/cardamom & chilli hellmann’s chilli mayonnaise fired by tabasco™ – £1.99 garbanzo snacks bombay twist/thai sweet chilli / tomato salsa – £2.29 rowntree’s® randoms® sharing bag 150g – £1.29 savoursmiths truffle and rosemary – £1.50 the free from kitchen co free from choc bar 100g – £1.50 / salted caramel chocolate slab – £2.50 lucozade energy watermelon and strawberry cooler – £1.20 drgn turmeric superdrink – £1.85 trek dark chocolate & sea salt protein nut bars (3 x 40g) mavericks healthier snacks for kids – £0.75 here is the link to the full background of the degusta box and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degusta box-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degusta box/ but, for a quick recap, degusta box is an online retail service that offers a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. but lucky customers like yourself will receive a £7.99 discount when signing up for your first degusta box by inserting discount code degusta5 at the checkout. offer is valid up to, and including 31 july 2019 so don’t miss out! products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degusta box here: http://tidd.ly/8f140077 you can stay updated via degusta box’s social networks too: facebook – https://www.facebook.com/degustaboxuk/ twitter – https://twitter.com/degustaboxuk instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers can receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degusta box has recently introduced db discoveries to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: what’s in june 2019’s degusta box? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degusta box below: products mystery product lentil, corn, pea and black bean tortillas – £0.50 newman’s own italian dressing – £1.75 kolibri botanical drinks strawberry and basil/cardamom and chilli hellmann’s chilli mayonnaise fired by tabasco™ – £1.99 garbanzo snacks bombay twist / thai sweet chilli / tomato salsa rowntree’s® randoms® sharing bag 150g – £1.29 savoursmiths truffle and rosemary – £1.50 the free from kitchen co free from choc bar 100g – £1.50 / salted caramel chocolate slab – £2.50 lucozade energy watermelon and strawberry cooler – £1.20 drgn turmeric superdrink – £1.65 trek dark chocolate & sea salt protein nut bars (3 x 40g) – £2.50 mavericks healthier snacks for kids – £0.75 what did i like most about june 2019’s degusta box? rating: reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (8 years old) aidan (7 years old) what’s in june 2019’s degusta box? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degusta box below: products mystery product lentil, corn, pea and black bean tortillas – £0.50 “we want you to tell us what you think of a brand new snack that hasn’t even hit the shops yet! these are a healthier alternative to a tortilla chip. lentils, corn, green peas and black beans have been pressed into thin, crunchy triangles and seasoned with sea salt.” our opinion – i love tortilla chips, and these were a blander version, which is great because that means there’s much less salt in these than the regular tortilla chips. the ingredients taste authentic so i’d prefer to give these to the boys when they fancy a snack! 4.5/5 newman’s own italian dressing – £1.75 “our best-selling original dressing with red wine vinegar and extra virgin olive oil. *available in the major supermarket online.” our opinion – my husband is swiss, so i enjoy some of the best dressings in my salads, including the gorgeous swiss-style dressing. and this italian dressing is very similar to the real thing! it’s got the classic lemon, garlic and vinegar flavour and it’s natural as you can see the ingredients separate when left in the fridge. i love this dressing, very tasty! 5/5 kolibri botanical drinks strawberry and basil/cardamom and chilli “award-winning, luxury lightly sparkling botanical infusions with very low sugar and flavours tailored to taste. made in britain, all-natural ingredients, low calorie and no artificial sweeteners. *you should receive 1 or 2 flavours in your box. available on amazon and holland & barrett.” our opinion – i found these drinks to be very weird, and it took me a while to understand how to use the top cap mechanism. in fact, i couldn’t even remove the cap from the strawberry & basil by myself, i had to get my husband to do it because it was stuck. the idea is to sweeten up your main drink with the syrup at the top by squeezing some into the drink. i like the concept that you can choose how sweet you’d like your drink to be, but only if the cap wasn’t so difficult to take off and put back on again! 3/5 hellmann’s chilli mayonnaise fired by tabasco™ – £1.99 “the nation’s favourite hellmann’s mayonnaise combined with the iconic tabasco™ brand pepper sauce to create new hellmann’s tabasco™ mayo. the perfect addition to spice up your chicken tacos, burgers, falafel wraps and everything in between! *available in most supermarket chains.” our opinion – i am not a fan of spice, so my husband tried this spicy mayo and absolutely loved it – he’s a mayo fiend! he says he will definitely go for this kind again as the spice complements the creamy mayo. not my cup of tea though! 4/5 garbanzo snacks bombay twist / thai sweet chilli / tomato salsa “garbanzo snacks is a new gourmet range of vegan snacks in three wonderful flavours with crunchy chickpeas, caramelised pumpkin seeds and sweet caramelised red onions. our artisan kitchens use only natural ingredients. gluten-free with no artificial additives or preservatives. healthy doesn’t have to be boring – enjoy! *you should receive 1 of 3 flavours in your box. available on ocado.” our opinion – i am heavily pregnant, and one night i fancied snacking on something savoury, but not heavy or with animal products. these garbanzo snacks, albeit quite salty, hit the spot while i was watching my daily show of love island. i love how each chickpea snack is inspired by a different type of cuisine, and as i’m mediterranean, naturally, my favourite was the mediterranean inspired crunchy chickpeas. they’re great to have around the house when you’re feeling peckish, but you don’t fancy eating a full meal. 4.5/5 rowntree’s® randoms® sharing bag 150g – £1.29 “more random than a monkey playing a saxophone! ‘let your random side out’ with every pack of completely unpredictable rowntree’s® randoms®! from ping-pong paddles to paintbrushes, snowflakes to saxophones, every bag contains billions of possible combinations – you’ll never know quite what you’re going to get! *available in the major supermarket chains, wholesale, convenience and independent shops.” our opinion – i do love rowntrees® randoms®, they’re delicious and moreish. and even though i’m trying to limit sugar in my diet, it’s very difficult to do that when a bag of randoms® is in this month’s degusta box, though! super tasty and the boys and i enjoyed picking out the different types of shapes. we made it into a game. 4.5/5 savoursmiths truffle and rosemary – £1.50 “fresh springs of rosemary is combined with a hint of wild, earthy and decadent taste of black truffle to create a unique snacking experience.” our opinion – these were super tasty. i loved the earthy flavour and the hint of rosemary shining through. the herbs made the flavour really rich and deep – the funny packaging made me smile too! 5/5 the free from kitchen co free from choc bar 100g – £1.50 / salted caramel chocolate slab – £2.50 “here at the free from kitchen co, we promise to always be gluten, wheat and milk free. our products will suit everyone, whether it’s for a lifestyle choice or medical reasons, we aim to deliver fun, colourful and innovative products without compromising on quality. *available in tesco.” our opinion – i champion free from products all the time, not because i have a medical need, but i do think they are healthier on the body in the long run. these free from chocolates, especially the salted caramel, was absolutely delicious and i could not honestly tell the difference between these and regular milk chocolates. you may have to pay more for free from, but if it’s healthier for you, then i’d rather indulge in these than the other highly sugar chocolates stuffed with animal products. 4.5/5 lucozade energy watermelon and strawberry cooler – £1.20 “introducing the newest great tasting flavour to the lucozade energy range! watermelon & strawberry cooler is a blend of refreshingly fruity flavours which will get your taste buds tingling this summer. for maximum enjoyment, chill it in the fridge before drinking. *available at morrison’s and multiple high street and convenience stores.” our opinion – i’m staying away from caffeine products/energy drinks as i’m pregnant and i’m not a fan of the original lucozade either, but this watermelon and strawberry version was really lovely. i love watermelon, so i knew i’ d like the taste, and it’s a lot lighter and more refreshing than the original. my husband downed this drink in almost one shot and hasn’t stopped buying it since! 5/5 drgn turmeric superdrink – £1.65 “drgn turmeric superdrink is an ‘asian fusion’ natural energy and wellness drink, without caffeine. inspired by the far east, this refreshing citrus drink is packed with pan asian ‘superfoods’, vitamins and minerals. with less sugar and nothing artificial, drgn is the smarter choice. *available on drgndrink.co, and on amazon, independent grocers and cafes.” our opinion – this is a great drink when you’ve not upped your vitamin intake for the day. i can’t drink it as i’m pregnant, but i had a small taste, and i really liked the bite from the turmeric and the refreshing carbonated citrus flavour. i can imagine that this is a great drink to have before a work-out, so once i’ve had this baby, i know what i’m buying as my pre-workout drink! 4.5/5 trek dark chocolate & sea salt protein nut bars (3 x 40g) – £2.50 “crunchy roasted peanuts & whole almonds with a sprinkling of dark chocolate chips & and a touch of sea salt. trek dark chocolate & sea salt protein nut bars are packed with 10g of plant-based protein, have less than 5g of sugar and are high in fibre. *available at asda, ocaso, sainsbury’s, waitrose & amazon.” our opinion – these were absolutely delicious! i placed them in my bag and enjoyed one a day during brunch time. they were the perfect pick me up and great for pregnant women as it’s high in fibre, and protein, but it’s not too sweet. the dark chocolatey taste complements the crunchy bar really well. i’d love to try these again! 5/5 mavericks healthier snacks for kids – £0.75 “we believe every maverick maker should be fired up for fun and adventure, so we’ve created a range of healthier snacks for kids, which do just that. pick up a pack of poppin’ corn, breadkicks, fruit brix, smart cookies and fruit laces. always under 100cals, always no added sugar options, always added goodness. *you should receive 2 items in your box.” our opinion – i love healthy snacks for kids, especially when they’re low in sugar, so i don’t feel guilty when offering snacks like these. the cookies were delicious and the poppin’ corn, albeit a little bland, went down really well with the boys. 4/5 what did i like most about june 2019’s degusta box? i loved the trek bars and hubby loved the chilli mayo, but, i know the boys love the rowntrees® randoms®. so we’re all divided, but we love the products just the same. rating: 4.5 out of 5 – a great selection of products this month – please keep the free from / vegan snacks coming in, i love educating my boys that it’s not always about animal products leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:degustaboxfood and drink related posts bengal chicken curry november 2017 degustabox review christmas spiced apple and walnut chutne... july 2014 – degustabox product rev... may 2018 degustabox ‘world cup’ product ... february 2019 degustabox review – degust... october 2014 – degustabox product review... october 2017 degustabox review august 2014 – degustabox product r... june 2017 bbq degustabox review oxo good grips 3-piece berries bowl ... july 2016 – degustabox review january 2018 degustabox review november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... june 2015 – picnic degustabox product re... september 2014 – degustabox produc... march 2016 – degustabox product re... june 2014 – degustabox product rev... chillfactor squeeze cup slushy maker ... motherhood diaries bakes with betty croc... recipe – snowcapped chocolate fond... september 2015 – degustabox produc... may 2014 – degustabox product revi... february 2020 degusta box review – easte... may picnic 2017 degustabox review may 2016 – degustabox food box – product... march 2019 degusta box review graze sharing boxes – a review superfood christmas tree salad – the big... january 2016 – degustabox product ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 20shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok