petite anglaise june 29, 2005 part-time mummy filed under: parting ways, tadpole rearing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 3:07 pm i know i probably shouldn’t write this out loud, but i’m rather enjoying the prospect of becoming a part-time mummy. since tadpole was born, two years ago, my life has been a relentless whirlwind of activity: caring for baby/toddler, delivering her to childminder’s flat, dashing to work, working, and then the same drill, in reverse, at the end of the day. my evenings began at 8.30pm, when tadpole went to bed, but these were spent caged in our apartment, resentfully waiting for mr frog to put in an appearance. hence my rich virtual life, which filled the gaping void in my offline world. i can count the number of evenings where mr frog was able to relieve me of my duties, allowing me to go out and meet friends for dinner, or attend a blogmeet or whatever it might be, on the fingers of two hands. on those occasions where i did manage to escape for a few hours, i invariably arrived late and frazzled, in a hastily ordered taxi, because mr babysitter rarely arrived at the appointed hour. so, castigate me for being a bad mummy if you will, but i confess i am looking forward to having a social life on the evenings when mr frog will pick up tadpole from the childminder’s and she will spend the whole night at daddy’s house. the very idea of being able to go out for a drink after work, on a whim, meet friends, or even just do a spot of improvised late night shopping, once a week thrills me. separation, it would seem, has its advantages. then there are the alternate weekends… not only will i no longer have to wend my reluctant way to pay a duty visit to the in-laws every couple of months, but i will now have entire child-free weekends at my disposal. weekends where i won’t have to get out of bed at all until i’m good and ready. weekends where i can hop on a train, with an overnight bag, and fall into my lover’s waiting arms. space to breathe, the luxury of time to recharge my batteries. time off, during which i sometimes allow myself to forget, albeit briefly, that i ever became a mother. an illicit pleasure, only slightly diluted by vague pangs of guilt that i shouldn’t really feel this way. but i do, and i’m not afraid to admit it. secure in the knowledge that she is in the safest hands after my own, and confident that she is happy spending one on one time with her daddy, my conscience is clear. i miss tadpole, when we are apart, but i appreciate her tenfold when we are reunited. i’m tempted to speculate that as a part-timer, i may even make a better mummy. comments (58) june 28, 2005 advice filed under: navel gazing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 11:27 am over the past month my inbox has been groaning under a torrent of messages, from the caring and supportive to the damning and judgemental, with every shade in between. the comments box is only the tip of the iceberg. i have read more well-intentioned advice than i know what to do with. everybody sees a situation like mine in a different light, depending on what life has thrown at them; what kind of baggage they have picked up on the way. sometimes the subject makes people distinctly uncomfortable: one friend i confided in seemed to find it impossible to talk about the breakdown of my relationship with mr frog without casting a slightly anxious eye over his own situation, almost squirming in his seat. when people give me an insight into their own, similar, experiences, i have to tell myself to bear in mind that what worked for someone else, while it often makes interesting reading, can never be wholly relevant to what is happening in my life. every situation is unique. i’m not complaining. after all, when someone takes the time to type a long email to a person they have never met, it shows that they care enough to volunteer a point of view, write some kind words, or share their own, sometimes painful, experiences. i am very grateful for this, but endeavour all the same to take whatever is offered with a pinch of salt. there are those who believe i should have “worked harder” to save my relationship with mr frog. those who caution me against throwing myself headlong into a new relationship so soon, and advocate some time alone first, to adjust to the new status quo. to help tadpole adjust. those who are pessimistic, predicting that once the first flush of infatuation wears off, i will realise that i have made a terrible mistake. those who advise me to keep tadpole separate from the new adventure i am embarking on, for months, or even years. those who feel the need to admonish me for having even contemplated leaving tadpole’s father in the first place to selfishly pursue my own happiness. how dare i put myself first? what kind of a mother am i? i reserve the right to put my hands over my ears like a child and chant loudly so that i can’t hear any of these words. i reserve the right to listen to my heart, and follow its lead, wherever it may take me. am i being selfish? self-centred? probably. i feel sure that i am doing what is best for everyone involved, but then i would, wouldn’t i? i wonder whether anyone can ever really be objective about their own motivations? don’t we all feel tempted to tweak reality to fit in with our long term goals? to persuade ourselves that what we are doing is ultimately for the best? all i know is this: i love, and i am loved. more deeply, on more levels, than i ever believed possible. i don’t really subscribe to notions like fate, or divine intervention, but i do marvel every day at the fact that i ever crossed paths with this person. i’ve found something, someone i didn’t even know i was waiting for, until now. i want to surrender myself to this feeling, to him, completely. so don’t ask me to wait. or take a break, and revisit this a few months down the line. it’s simply not an option for me. for us. i’m no fool, and i will force myself to tread carefully for the sake of my daughter’s well being. she is, and always will be, at the centre of my universe. mr frog will remain an important figure in my life too, both for tadpole’s sake, and because i value him as a friend. but while i’m waiting, impatiently, for the next phase of my life to begin, taking small, measured steps towards it, i reserve the right to hug myself gleefully every time i think of the gorgeous things that my future holds. to laugh to myself in the metro. to smile at my monitor when i receive mail. no dark cloud can leave a shadow on this. comments (44) june 27, 2005 crash filed under: parting ways — petiteanglaiseparis @ 4:23 pm it’s over. on sunday morning, mr frog gathered the last of his belongings and ceremoniously handed me his set of keys. after five weeks of tiptoeing gingerly around each other’s feelings, occasionally barking harsh words we didn’t even mean, only to retract them, sheepishly, a few minutes later, we have finally found our way out of this strange limbo we have been inhabiting for too long. no longer on the verge of separating, we’ve actually gone through with it. i introduced myself to the concierge of his apartment building this morning, on my way to collect tadpole, as “the mother of mr frog’s child”. i didn’t know what else to call myself, not having got as far as rehearsing that yet. the past week is a blur: a frenzy of packing, sorting, cleaning mr frog’s new place while tadpole pottered contentedly by my side, shopping for things to replace those mr frog would be taking. baking quiche at midnight on friday for the bloggers picnic. seeing my lover for a few precious hours on sunday, while tadpole spent her first night in her new bedroom across the road. today my runaway adrenaline levels have finally flatlined. i’m shattered. exhausted. i would gladly sell my soul to the highest bidder in return for a couple of days of uninterrupted sleep… comments (18) june 23, 2005 torrid filed under: city of light — petiteanglaiseparis @ 2:18 pm i abhor paris in the summertime. as soon as the temperatures begin to rise, my spirits correspondingly sink into my flip flops. an oppressive mantle of velvety, pollution-filled air descends on the city of light, consenting to recede, for a couple of hours only, shortly before dawn. there is only one thing worse than paris on heat, and that is paris on heat experienced from the unique vantage point of chez petite. my apartment, although it is packed full of original features (warped floorboards, fireplaces, a stove, bucolic scenes painted on panels and doors), is located on the fifth floor, beyond the reach of the shade giving trees which line our avenue, and has only south-facing windows. the highest temperature ever recorded inside the flat was 40°c. this was in tadpole’s bedroom, when she was a mere three months old, and the time was 11.30 pm. i did not enjoy her first summer one little bit. my not-so-fond memories of the 2003 canicule involve a scantily clad, half-crazed-with-cabin-fever petite sitting in semi-darkness, shutters firmly closed, windows only opened between the hours of 4 am and 9 am, engaged in one of two activities: dvd watching, or breastfeeding. this week, with temperatures soaring into the lower 30’s, it has been increasingly difficult to get a decent night’s sleep. the conundrum is this: sleep with the windows open, and resign self to being woken up periodically by the clamour of traffic on the busy thoroughfare below (because not only do the windows face south, but also onto the street), or opt for double-glazed peace and quiet, and resign self to slow death by poaching. possibly with a whirring fan for company, which manages to do little other than stir the sultry air round and round. noisily. and just when you thought things couldn’t get any worse, try adding the high pitched whine of an elusive mosquito with a voracious appetite into the mix. i can’t find a plug in mosquito repellent device for love nor money – the local shops helpfully stock only refills for people who didn’t leave their plug in apparatus in a hotel room in mauritius or a gîte in morbihan. petite, nul points, vampiric invisible mosquito, six points. and quite how i managed to get bitten there, i will never know. comments (62) older posts » search for: about books press fbk potted petite prologue burned null and void part time mummy baggage singing in tongues eleven days later semi-detached suspendered sunday archives january 2011 november 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 august 2004 july 2004 categories adoption book stuff city of light french touch good time girl knocked up knot tying miam mills & boon misc missing blighty navel gazing on the road parting ways single life tadpole rearing tadpole says tadpole sings uncategorized working girl stats 638 posts 27,981 comments © catherine sanderson 2004-2009 blog at wordpress.com.