skip to content junkscience.com all the junk that’s fit to debunk. menu and widgets junk science? steve milloy contact donate features subscribe to blog via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. join 34,468 other subscribers email address subscribe search search for: my tweets recent posts winning!!! milloy defeats exxonmobil at sec on climate shareholder proposal center for the study of co2 petitions epa to repeal the endangerment finding epa clarifies secret science proposal just stupid: study claims outdoor air quality more deadly than smoking video: stop radiophobia! recent comments john minich on federal toxic chief defends epa by trying to shoot the messenger angel artiste on epa-funded harvard researcher, nrdc admit obama epa broke law with human experiments gofigure on steve milloy statement on repeal of clean power plan ofigure on steve milloy statement on repeal of clean power plan claudia roulier on epa-funded harvard researcher, nrdc admit obama epa broke law with human experiments meta log in entries feed comments feed wordpress.org march 2020 s m t w t f s « feb 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 winning!!! milloy defeats exxonmobil at sec on climate shareholder proposal i out-lawyered exxonmobil’s high-priced, white-shoe law firm to ensure my shareholder proposal will be included in exxonmobil’s 2020 proxy materials and will be voted on at its may shareholder meeting. my anti-greenwashing proposal asks the climate bedwetting, pro-co2 tax oil giant to report to shareholders on the actual costs and benefits of its climate-related activities. make no mistake: exxonmobil is the greatest company selling the greatest product in history. but its current greenwashing management, which is actively aiding and abetting climate communists, is dumber than a box of rocks. further reading: shareholder proposal | sec web site | exxonmobil produces 3.8 million barrels of climate disinformation a day below is the youtube audio of my climate-related 2008 shareholder proposa at exxonmobil. share this: share email print twitter facebook linkedin pinterest tumblr reddit posted on march 20, 2020march 20, 2020author steve milloycategories climate & energyleave a comment on winning!!! milloy defeats exxonmobil at sec on climate shareholder proposal center for the study of co2 petitions epa to repeal the endangerment finding this will require a second trump term. you can read the petition here: web | pdf. share this: share email print twitter facebook linkedin pinterest tumblr reddit posted on march 10, 2020march 10, 2020author steve milloycategories climate & energyleave a comment on center for the study of co2 petitions epa to repeal the endangerment finding epa clarifies secret science proposal epa has responded to the squealing from the junk science crowd about the science transparency proposal issued in 2018. the good news is that the rulemaking is on track to be finalized soon. the media release is below. the supplemental proposal to appear in the federal register is here (web | pdf). share this: share email print twitter facebook linkedin pinterest tumblr reddit posted on march 3, 2020author steve milloycategories epaleave a comment on epa clarifies secret science proposal just stupid: study claims outdoor air quality more deadly than smoking the air quality mafia is so desperate that it is now claiming outdoor air reduces life expectancy by more than smoking. continue reading just stupid: study claims outdoor air quality more deadly than smoking share this: share email print twitter facebook linkedin pinterest tumblr reddit posted on march 2, 2020march 2, 2020author steve milloycategories air qualityleave a comment on just stupid: study claims outdoor air quality more deadly than smoking video: stop radiophobia! radiation levels on a popular brazilian beach are higher than chernobyl. share this: share email print twitter facebook linkedin pinterest tumblr reddit posted on february 22, 2020author steve milloycategories radiation republicans are buying into carbon capture foolishness this column is also at washingtonexaminer.com. continue reading republicans are buying into carbon capture foolishness share this: share email print twitter facebook linkedin pinterest tumblr reddit posted on february 21, 2020author steve milloycategories climate & energy no raw data, no science like it says. continue reading no raw data, no science share this: share email print twitter facebook linkedin pinterest tumblr reddit posted on february 20, 2020february 20, 2020author steve milloycategories air quality cancelled: permafrost apocalypse a new study published in science indicates that even if methane is released from these large natural stores in response to warming, very little actually reaches the atmosphere. continue reading cancelled: permafrost apocalypse share this: share email print twitter facebook linkedin pinterest tumblr reddit posted on february 20, 2020february 20, 2020author steve milloycategories climate & energy bernie’s fracking ban would also ban peace and prosperity my column at realclearenergy.com. continue reading bernie’s fracking ban would also ban peace and prosperity share this: share email print twitter facebook linkedin pinterest tumblr reddit posted on february 20, 2020author steve milloycategories climate & energy sorry virtue signalers, a carbon tax would have no impact on climate my realclearmarkets.com take on the so-called climate leadership council and its carbon tax proposal. continue reading sorry virtue signalers, a carbon tax would have no impact on climate share this: share email print twitter facebook linkedin pinterest tumblr reddit posted on february 20, 2020author steve milloycategories climate & energy ccs reality gets even funnier you can check out my takedown yesterday of carbon capture and sequestration (ccs) at american greatness. but here’s something else. as of 2019, there were only 17 operational ccs projects in the world. guess how much co2 they store? continue reading ccs reality gets even funnier share this: share email print twitter facebook linkedin pinterest tumblr reddit posted on february 13, 2020author steve milloycategories climate & energy the bmj’s ‘trust us’ statistics — with a relative risk of 1.0018! anyone knowledgeable about epidemiology was appalled when, in 1992, epa labeled secondhand smoke as a carcinogen based on a relative risk of 1.19 — well within the noise range of statistical correlations and essentially a no-correlation finding. now the british medical journal has published a study trying to link ozone in outdoor air with premature mortality based on a relative risk of 1.0018. that is shocking enough, but check out the bmj’s ‘trust us’ guarantee. continue reading the bmj’s ‘trust us’ statistics — with a relative risk of 1.0018! share this: share email print twitter facebook linkedin pinterest tumblr reddit posted on february 13, 2020author steve milloycategories air quality posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 1,217 next page proudly powered by wordpress send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.