the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory a supposedly feminist website subscribe latestfeaturesthe musethe slotpictorialbarf bagdirt bagvideoshop a supposedly feminist website latestfeaturesthe musethe slotpictorialbarf bagdirt bagvideoshop don't you dare pull any april fools shit this year, brands you may also like gizmodo teen who died of covid-19 was denied treatment because he didn't have health insurance matt novaktoday 7:00am the root the trump administration just canceled an order for 80,000 ventilators to haggle over the price stephen a. crockett jr.today 12:30pm news trevor noah gets 13 minutes with the one guy you want to listen to on covid-19 dennis perkinstoday 5:31am popular deals on the inventory add a super versatile usb-c hub to your macbook pro for a low $26 justcbd is giving you 25% off cbd gummies so you can finally get some rest [exclusive] more from g/o media read on the truth of coronavirus might be worse than the conspiracy theories read on sega's new mascot is the son of sega's old mascot read on another ww1 fps wants to get into the trenches read on coronavirus has slashed global air pollution. this interactive map shows how. subscribe to our newsletter let us help you procrastinate. sign up for our daily newsletter.subscribe shannon melero 21 minutes ago • filed to:april fools' day april fools' day save image: shutterstock even though it feels as though a single day in self-isolation lasts five years, april is right around the corner, as is the most annoying holiday ever invented: april fools’ day. any other year, april 1 would be a typical day where suddenly all your loved ones become untrustworthy degenerates. is cousin john really moving, or is he just pulling a prank? it could go either way. the worst offenders are the people who, even though the internet has this discussion every year, still share false sonograms to prank their friends into believing they are pregnant. for the umpteenth time, don’t do that. while i think that everyone should take a break from april fools’ day this year, there’s one specific group that should be banned from anything that even resembles a prank: retailers. not a single brand should be allowed to send an email that starts or begins with the phrase “april fools!” not even an innocent but stupid prank, like in 2019 when insurance company lemonade sent an email saying their logo couldn’t be pink anymore because t-mobile was suing them. all retailer email pranks, just like everything else, must be canceled until further notice. advertisement brands may be tempted to send a little april fools’ day email, but just keep in mind that those of us who are fortunate enough to still have our health are annoyed, bored, fighting with their partner, or all of the above. no brand should strive to be the one asshole that sends a useless and unfunny email. if there is a funny joke that simply cannot wait, create a draft and schedule it to be posted on april 1st, 2021, when life and merriment are expected to return once more. but until then, let’s all take deep breaths and stay at least six feet away from any stupid shit being sent to our inboxes. shannon melero posts twitter spurned blogger. out for vengeance. share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from jezebel please get these coronavirus psas from the stars of contagion out of my face! starbucks employees got sick, but stores stayed open trump wants to resurrect the economy by easter o-town's ashley parker angel recalls making a band in real-time share tweet