jvt workshop a blog on mmos, gaming, movies and real life! friday, 27 march 2020 enderal: pulling our strings [part of the cursed story line] stealing the info from the the spooky manor is pretty straight forward, so jespar and i return to ark where a courier kid gives me a letter from dijaam. jespar goes ahead to report in while i visit the merchantess at an undercity tavern and accept her request to assist in finding out who set her up to take the blame for the golden sickle ambush. a speedy investigation has clues that quickly point to mael, the golden sickle grandmaster, so dijaam heads to the sickle base in town to confront him but only find a shop full of workers. things escalate quickly which results in their massacre! for this, dijaam is quickly apprehended by the city guard and taken to prison. hang in there, pussy cat. fortunately i am a lot stealthier, and with no witnesses putting me at the scene of the crime i am free to head to the prison and break her out. unfortunately the guards have had their way with her by then and i find her battered, beaten, and "thoroughly" searched, but she did learn from them that mael is actually missing too. we conclude that whoever is pulling our strings is trying to put on a show and head to the old theater on a hunch. insight: generic enemies respawn after a few days have passed, so don't assume things are clear if you haven't been there recently. posted by joseph skyrim at 01:59 0 comments email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: ark, dijaam, enderal, golden sickle, jespar, mael, mod, skyrim, solaufein, story journal thursday, 26 march 2020 enderal: teammates [part of the cursed story line] with the bandits dead and calia having disarmed the traps, lishari's crew is able to descend to do their work. since everything is under control here we head back to a myrad tower where i run into esme, who is about to go do something stupid and/or dangerous. i volunteer to assist while calia myrads back to ark to report in. we sneak into the dark valley, taking down the numerous lost ones and a random huge werewolf wandering within until we reach the haunted ruins of castle bleakstar that is inhabited by one stubborn phantom. once it's dispelled we find proof that tara may have fallen in with some nefarious cult with clues suggesting they moved to a location near duneville. i hope it's not that suicide crew i found before. esme, you can't sneak with a lit torch... esme myrads ahead as i receive word of another urgent mission for the keepers. this time i'm partnered up with jespar to try retrieve knowledge from an eccentric artist at his distant, puppet-filled manor with specific instructions not to use violence at all. a small detour on the way to the manor rewards me with... a dragon fight! insight: unlike calia, esme isn't a great fighter or tank. in fact, all she's good at is giving away your position to the enemy so expect to do some heavy lifting and prep health potions before hand. posted by joseph skyrim at 03:42 0 comments email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: ark, calia, dragon, duneville, enderal, esme, jespar, lishari, mod, myrad, skyrim, solaufein, story journal wednesday, 25 march 2020 enderal: you're f-hired! [part of the cursed story line] returning from duneville i manage to wrap up a number of lose ends at ark - completing a relic collection for the shoes guild, an egg collection for crazy kurmai who wants to start an aviary in his floating "star city", and the ingredients to reproduce the poison mael was interested in - but not before first warning his rival dijaam that she's under suspicion. since she confronts mael directly about it, i promptly get fired from the golden sickle. just as well as right after calia and i get promoted into the keeper guild, and grandmaster tealor puts us to work immediately - sending us to assist a nearby dig crew to retrieve an ancient artifact. turns out this crew is led by lishari, and her progress into the site is being held up by trap savvy bandits who have made a home of this place. i happen to stumble into one - a giant pit but luckily land deep water. from there i can work my way back up, assassinating the entrenched bandits as i go. only their leader gets the drop on me but calia, who also fell into the pit but managed to hang onto something to find a different exit, shows up just in time to save me - using her menacing "shadow form"? she later explains that she has some other being in her that comes out to kill people from time to time. more than just a pretty face. insight: even without her shadow form, calia is a decent tank and does good damage with her two handed sword so let her take point in combat. comparatively tharael does more damage with his twin swords but can't take many hits. posted by joseph skyrim at 03:54 0 comments email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: ark, calia, dijaam, duneville, enderal, golden sickle, kurmai, lishari, mael, mod, skyrim, solaufein, story journal, tealor tuesday, 24 march 2020 enderal: a sandy vacation [part of the cursed story line] after the crazy events in the temple i need a change of scenery so i travel east into the powder desert, home of big cats, mini rhinos, and gorilla trolls - eventually reaching the little underground village of duneville. here i help where i can - acting as cupid for a couple of villager, helping the watchdogs solve a murder, hunting bounties down including a wild myrad who is luckily a terrible shot, and exploring a distant isle that seems like some suicide cultist resort now over run by rats, bone rippers (death claws), and one scary spider. myrads are so cute! this one is a little shy... i also do some artifact hunting and solve a ruin comprised entirely of puzzles which is easy thanks to the hints at the start. it's a good vacation, but with all the tasks in the area completed it's time to return to ark. i have a graduation ceremony to attend after all. insight: while it's in the air, just strafe to avoid the myrad's breath attack. once it lands it gets a lot more accurate so take cover! posted by joseph skyrim at 03:27 0 comments email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: ark, duneville, enderal, mod, myrad, skyrim, solaufein, story journal monday, 23 march 2020 enderal: winning until you lose [part of the cursed story line] before we can start the ambush, the father reveals he knew about tharael's plan all along. furthermore, those children he took from the orphanage were all dying of disease and he tried save them the only way he knew how: transcending them into simulacarums. in fact, his own body guard was once tharael's best friend and tharael himself is in a false body. unable to process this, tharael beheads the body guard and begins to fight the father (who i'm pretty sure is a dragon in a mannequin). i stick to the plan and partake in the epic fight, sniping the father and his summons while tharael holds his aggro. it is a long though simple battle for a well placed sniper, and we take the father down... until we don't. he literally gets up and defeats us with his voice. the last thing i remember is him leading his chosen rhalata to the ascension chamber, stating that us merely "existing" is punishment enough. when i awake properly, there is a gaping hole where the ascension chamber once was. tharael, standing at the edge says he saw it go in a bright flash of light. he doesn't know if the process worked or if the temple simply killed them all. what he does know is that he doesn't deserve to live and commits suicide by gravity... stepping off the cliff. it was all for naught. insight: when the father summons illusions one will always be beside tharael, and the second one beside you so look out! posted by joseph skyrim at 03:32 0 comments email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: dragon, enderal, mod, rhalata, skyrim, solaufein, story journal, tharael sunday, 22 march 2020 enderal: temple of abomination [part of the cursed story line] it isn't long before the father summons me, having heard good things from the first seer. there in his lab he describes the rhalata belief that one must transcend their own body. he even has simulacarums (fake bodies) that he had tried for years to ascend to but the process is flawed. to this end he is assembling an expedition to an ancient temple from a past civilization that already achieved this, and wants me as one of the mercs on the tip of the spear. i accept and we ship out post-haste. i am grouped with tharael and a female sell sword named zar'ah to be one of the many squads exploring the temple. tharael watches the giant rise. horrid abominations are fought within, including one tower sized one, and tharael executes zar'ah as a sacrifice to get one door open to reach the ritual ante-chamber. as planned, he then summons the father and his bodyguard - sealing the gate behind them. the time for murder is now! insight: the towering abomination moves fast. i barely had enough time to shoot him down from the very edge of the room. posted by joseph skyrim at 03:56 0 comments email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: enderal, giant, mod, rhalata, skyrim, solaufein, story journal, tharael saturday, 21 march 2020 enderal: kidnappers [part of the cursed story line] as the graduation ceremony will take time to prepare i head on back to arkham and find card-shark esme in the district, and give her the log book from the morning dew which indicates her girl, tara, disembarked early to meet a noble in town. i help her snoop a bit in the absent noble's residence until she gets a new lead to follow. afterwards we part ways as tharael makes contact and wants to take me to the rhalata temple to meet the first seer. goes without saying they are a strange bunch, and the first seer assigns me a test to kill a defector hiding among savages and return her heart. this is pretty easy, and the defector herself asks for death as she suffers from prosopagnosia (can't see faces) so i oblige. this impresses the first seer who says words of my deeds will reach the father's ears. just as planned. while that happens tharael and i revisit his childhood orphanage deep in the undercity which is now crawling with lost ones. prosopagnosia as depicted in hannibal. there he spills the beans on how the father bought children, his friends, from the caretakers. those children were never seen again. insight: can't get by through archery alone anymore as the mob density just keeps going up. to this end i'm using a sword and shield when an enemy horde draws near. it also means i open by sniping the hardest hitters first - enemy mages and those carrying two handed weapons. posted by joseph skyrim at 03:42 0 comments email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: ark, enderal, esme, hannibal, mod, rhalata, skyrim, solaufein, story journal, tharael older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) the library projects and journals reviews and tutorials joseph skyrim the elder scrolls stole my name. :p view my complete profile ads by project wonderful! your ad here, right now: $0 paths i travel massively overpowered roblox’s 7th annual bloxy awards in-game event draws in almost 4 million players 1 hour ago the ancient gaming noob blapril is a promise that blaugust is bound to keep 2 hours ago leo's life darksiders genesis 4 hours ago me vs. myself and i twr: covid-19 commander challenge 4 hours ago gamingsf another generous game company #neverwintergame 4 hours ago inventory full tell me something i don't know : everquest ii 5 hours ago cateaclysmic happy birthday jackson wang!! 5 hours ago rng assassin’s creed – nothing is true, everything is permitted 5 hours ago aywren sojourner - just a geek blog animal crossing: new horizons – bringing the smiles 5 hours ago superior realities star trek: picard’s first season is a rough but worthwhile journey 6 hours ago bio break chrono trigger: a grim future indeed 7 hours ago tales of the aggronaut sleeping coworkers 7 hours ago welcome to my life ❤️ xo is using keyboard & mouse on console cheating? 10 hours ago later levels egx rezzed 2020: a virtual round-up 14 hours ago let's ask violet ex tattoo 16 hours ago daily creative thing telework socks finished! 21 hours ago blog - contains moderate peril learning how to live stream part 2 21 hours ago going commando guild love 23 hours ago everwake's internet adventures genshin impact - how many times can i say breath of the wild? 1 day ago parallel context wordpress doesn't seem to like me 1 day ago tobold's blog should i buy animal crossing: new horizons? 1 day ago shadowz abstract gaming blog a new event in the blogging community. 1 day ago nomadic gamers, eh! first c2c – complete 1 day ago a green mushroom geek to geek s5e12 - homebound games and activities - “if tom nook wants to put me into debt at zero percent interest… i’ll take that” 1 day ago the friendly necromancer raid shadow legends: it gave me the bird 1 day ago hardcore casual quick little update 1 day ago beyond tannhauser gate sweet sixteen 1 day ago nerdy bookahs come join us for blapril! 2 days ago the nosy gamer cut scenes, a million gil, and an almost perfect look 2 days ago mailvaltar and thus blaugust becomes blapril 2 days ago kabalyero - play, blog & earn! planetside 2 gameplay by kabalyero! super freaking laggy! 2 days ago kaylriene sidenote: competitive analysis of the next-gen consoles 2 days ago hundstrasse return of the obra dinn: brain nod 2 days ago time to loot blaugust into blapril 2 days ago narratess review: sanctuary by v.v. james 3 days ago wow alt addiction escape to azeroth 3 days ago book of jen a timeline of covid-19 – january 2020 3 days ago dmdavid improve the start of baldur’s gate: descent into avernus with these 2 add-on adventures 3 days ago elfmaids & octopi stone age shenanigans 4 days ago endgame viable covid-19 or something 5 days ago aeternus gaming | musings of a gamer lady a tale of two 5 days ago battle stance wow and the experience bonus 5 days ago frostilyte's blog ruining your favourite pokémon – potato’s revenge 1 week ago deez wurds why we should be concerned. 1 week ago i has pc when crazy works out 1 week ago tredecim the siege of neverwinter 2 weeks ago shoot the rookie the super mario multiverse – captain toad: treasure tracker! 2 weeks ago mcwritestuff short story – my mechanical loop 5 weeks ago the mmoist major eso update coming 2/24 1 month ago leekseverywhere a milestone to celebrate 1 month ago the archives ▼ 2020 (87) ▼ march (27) enderal: pulling our strings enderal: teammates enderal: you're f-hired! enderal: a sandy vacation enderal: winning until you lose enderal: temple of abomination enderal: kidnappers enderal: selection by drinking enderal: arena upset enderal: starship trooper enderal: the journey north enderal: arkham enderal: treomar enderal: lawbreaker of justice enderal: firefighting enderal: sticky fever enderal: bad guys can't jump enderal: across the mountain enderal: riverville enderal: lost ones enderal: dead weight lisa: joy lisa: that's rando lisa: to build a boat 2, the epic conclusion of bo... lisa: to build a boat lisa: hopes and dreams lisa: the fate of all bullies ► february (29) ► january (31) ► 2019 (355) ► december (32) ► november (30) ► october (30) ► september (30) ► august (29) ► july (28) ► june (28) ► may (30) ► april (27) ► march (30) ► february (28) ► january (33) ► 2018 (299) ► december (32) ► november (31) ► october (31) ► september (30) ► august (32) ► july (23) ► june (8) ► may (21) ► april (22) ► march (23) ► february (23) ► january (23) ► 2017 (273) ► december (18) ► november (27) ► october (10) ► september (15) ► august (9) ► july (26) ► june (20) ► may (31) ► april (30) ► march (31) ► february (25) ► january (31) ► 2016 (327) ► december (28) ► november (29) ► october (30) ► september (31) ► august (29) ► july (30) ► june (30) ► may (13) ► april (24) ► march (27) ► february (26) ► january (30) ► 2015 (321) ► december (20) ► november (22) ► october (31) ► september (28) ► august (31) ► july (31) ► june (31) ► may (19) ► april (31) ► march (27) ► february (31) ► january (19) ► 2014 (290) ► december (20) ► november (27) ► october (29) ► september (10) ► august (31) ► july (13) ► june (22) ► may (30) ► april (26) ► march (22) ► february (28) ► january (32) ► 2013 (199) ► december (30) ► november (19) ► october (12) ► september (12) ► august (16) ► july (31) ► june (8) ► may (8) ► april (13) ► march (16) ► february (20) ► january (14) ► 2012 (153) ► december (13) ► november (4) ► october (8) ► september (16) ► august (31) ► july (29) ► june (5) ► may (7) ► april (13) ► march (3) ► february (7) ► january (17) ► 2011 (33) ► december (13) ► november (2) ► october (1) ► september (4) ► august (4) ► july (1) ► june (7) ► may (1) watermark theme. powered by blogger.