envato market web themes & templates code video audio graphics photos 3d files search popular files featured files top new files follow feed top authors top new authors public collections wordpress show all wordpress popular items blog / magazine buddypress corporate creative directory & listings ecommerce education elementor entertainment mobile nonprofit real estate retail technology wedding miscellaneous wordpress plugins on codecanyon hosting html show all html popular items admin templates corporate creative entertainment mobile nonprofit personal retail specialty pages technology wedding miscellaneous marketing show all marketing popular items email templates landing pages pagewiz unbounce landing pages google web designer ads on codecanyon cms show all cms popular items concrete5 drupal joomla modx themes moodle mura webflow weebly miscellaneous ecommerce show all ecommerce popular items woocommerce 3dcart bigcommerce cart66 cs-cart drupal commerce easy digital downloads ecwid jigoshop magento opencart oscommerce prestashop shopify ubercart virtuemart wp e-commerce zen cart muse show all muse popular items corporate creative ecommerce landing personal miscellaneous muse widgets on codecanyon ui design psd templates popular psd templates sketch templates popular sketch templates plugins logo maker business logo maker gaming logo maker twitch logo maker sports logo maker real estate logo maker medical logo maker service logo maker fitness brand logo maker clothing logo maker restaurant logo maker bar logo maker beauty logo maker bakery logo maker youtube logo maker more blogging courses facebook templates forums free elementor templates ghost themes jekyll tumblr typeengine themes guest cart 0 create an envato account sign in envato elements unlimited downloads envato elements: wordpress themes, plugins, video templates & more! unlimited downloads account sites, search & categories forums start selling menu our products digital assets subscription launch simple websites hire a freelancer tutorials & courses create designs, videos & mockups join the envato community learn from others in the forums cart 0 sign in web themes & templates code video audio graphics photos 3d files all items popular files featured files top new files follow feed top authors top new authors public collections view all categories wordpress popular items all items blog / magazine buddypress corporate creative directory & listings ecommerce education elementor entertainment mobile nonprofit real estate retail technology wedding miscellaneous wordpress plugins on codecanyon hosting html popular items all items admin templates corporate creative entertainment mobile nonprofit personal retail specialty pages technology wedding miscellaneous marketing popular items all items email templates landing pages pagewiz unbounce landing pages google web designer ads on codecanyon cms popular items all items concrete5 drupal joomla modx themes moodle mura webflow weebly miscellaneous ecommerce popular items all items woocommerce 3dcart bigcommerce cart66 cs-cart drupal commerce easy digital downloads ecwid jigoshop magento opencart oscommerce prestashop shopify ubercart virtuemart wp e-commerce zen cart muse popular items all items corporate creative ecommerce landing personal miscellaneous muse widgets on codecanyon ui design all items psd templates popular psd templates sketch templates popular sketch templates plugins logo maker all items business logo maker gaming logo maker twitch logo maker sports logo maker real estate logo maker medical logo maker service logo maker fitness brand logo maker clothing logo maker restaurant logo maker bar logo maker beauty logo maker bakery logo maker youtube logo maker more blogging courses facebook templates forums free elementor templates ghost themes jekyll tumblr typeengine themes search home files wordpresscreative portfolio kalium - creative theme for professionals kalium - creative theme for professionals $36 item details reviews comments support item details item details reviews comments support on sale 01_preview.jpg 02_excellent.jpg 03_amazing.jpg 04_shop.jpg 05_demos.jpg 06_main.jpg 07_agency.jpg 08_fashion.jpg 09_photography.jpg 10_architecture.jpg 11_hotel.jpg 12_travel.jpg 13_medical.jpg 14_law.jpg 15_automotive.jpg 16_restaurant.jpg 17_shop.jpg 18_landing.jpg 19_construction.jpg 20_freelancer.jpg 21_fitness.jpg 22_education.jpg 23_blogging.jpg 24_dark.jpg 25_wedding.jpg 26_bookstore.jpg live previewscreenshots share facebook google plus twitter pinterest add to favorites add to collection compatible with wordpress 5.3 and woocommerce 4.0 — gdpr ready slick wordpress theme for you! kalium is perfect for your portfolio, agency, photography, travel agency, corporate, business, fitness, restaurant, hotel, medical, construction, wedding, bookstore, lawyer, product landing, education, automotive (car dealer) site or your just a blog, just everything is possible to design with kalium. with stacks of layout designs, user-friendly theme options and rich drag and drop content builder to help create your perfect site in minutes, you can use it as a multipurpose theme too so you can build whatever you like with this template. kalium is well organized, visually stunning and constantly evolving through updates. when less is more at laborator hq, we too are designers and fashionistas and we know the true value of white space, we know cheap animations when we see them, and we wanted kalium to be something else, something more, but free of the clichés. that’s why you will find kalium so refreshing, plenty of clean lines, no clutter, very few clumsy time-wasting animations cluttering up the content experience. attention to details is unparalleled only with this theme. sick of the same old ecommerce shop? create the shopping experience that you have been waiting for without all the bloat! kalium works very well with industry standard plugin woocommerce and offers full ecommerce support. it will knock your socks off with its sophisticated abilities and professional layouts made especially for woocommerce. it features a ton of options for you to give users the ultimate shopping experience. save mega bucks leaving no stone unturned, kalium composes jam packed with extra value with included best-selling plugins: wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer), revolution slider, layer slider,woocommerce product filter, product size guide, advanced custom fields pro included. award winning design it is a truly humbling experience to be recognized by your industry for great design, which is exactly what happened with kalium. that’s why kalium is #1 creative wordpress theme and people around the world love it. amazing one click demo import easiest and fastest way to build your website, import whole demo content and set up your website to look just like any of our demo examples in one click. is amazingly easy and the fastest way to build your website. it will import pages, posts, sliders, widgets, theme options and more. also, new demos are continually added and buying a single license for kalium gives you access to all of what’s shown below, plus everything that will be added in the future. high quality & proffesional demos kalium offers some amazing a professionally created pre-built websites so you can easily import any demo website within seconds at 1 click install and then change the content easier to fit you needs. some of the demos offered are: main agency fashion shop (woocommerce) photography architecture hotel travel bookstore wedding medical law automotive (car dealer) restaurant landing (one page) construction freelancer fitness (gym) education blogging main dark more demos will come through theme updates. if you have own idea for great demo, please do not hesitate and tell us about that. we consider all your ideas! some of the key theme features: wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) plugin (included) revolution slider plugin (included) layerslider plugin (included) advanced custom fields pro (included) woocommerce product filter plugin (included) product size guide plugin (included) gdpr ready one-click demo content installer multisite support rich theme options custom skin generator typography — ultimate font management library the best way to manage your fonts and much more like no other theme on themeforest. 5 sources to use your favorite font: google font (900+ fonts, updated regularly) font squirrel fonts support (800+ fonts, updated regularly) adobe fonts (formerly typekit) support premium fonts support (included function pro font family ($149) custom font support, upload your own font in your server. 7 portfolio single item types with a lot of possibilities for each of them: side portfolio left – with spacing left – no spacing right – with spacing right – no spacing right – multiple boxes columned featured image – share on bottom centered layout + carousel boxed layout boxed layout – with checklist full screen – without checklist full screen – with checklist carousel version 1 version 2 zig zag with scrollbox with quotes fullscreen fullscreen layout lightbox photography – youtube – vimeo wpbakery page builder create your own layout ... with unlimited possibilities. updated: 19+ custom wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) widgets (by laborator) team members service box heading scroll box clients social networks alert box button contact form map portfolio items masonry portfolio dribbble gallery auto type blog posts divider pricing table products carousel like & share 4 portfolio listing types 3 blog types multiple menu types rich search page extensive woocommerce support products carousel ajax mini cart catalog mode (hide prices and “add to cart” buttons) coming soon mode page maintenance mode page 404 page endless pagination fullwidth pages video player skins (standard + minimal) theme borders portfolio 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 columns with auto or dynamic image sizes masonry portfolio featured tabs about me page team members page dribbble gallery elementor alert messages many buttons styles tabs and accordions autotype element social networks clients logos new: dividers new: pricing table new: blog posts widget new: go to top new: lightbox portfolio contact forms (multiple) google maps with styles mobile menu parallax support post formats supported rich posts: standard, video, quote, image, link, gallery, audio footer widgets blog sidebar ultra responsive on every device retina ready design adaptive images plenty of option on the sticky menu image or text logo fontawesome icons linea icons wpml certified, compatible and tested by wpml team. (plugin is not included) new: rtl (right to left) languages support new: multilingual ready —.po and .mo files included, for easy translation (czech, danish, german, greek, spanish, french, finnish, italian, norwegian, dutch, polish, portuguese, albanian, russian, swedish and turkish contributed by users). rich theme options child theme included custom page heading premium icons collections ajax lazy loading 100% https support new: custom css (less, sass support) / you can customize your site on custom css tab, there you can write css, less or sass for each screen size! semantic and clean html5 and css3 coded with seo in mind scroll box content downloadable 30+ layered psd-s for customization rich documentation, it includes 120+ articles and it’s constantly being updated with new material multiple hd video tutorials for easy instruction supported: post types order plugin supported: category order and taxonomy terms order plugin supported: wpforms plugin supported: ninja forms plugin supported: loco translate plugin supported: yoast seo plugin supported: woocommerce additional variation images plugin new: sidekick plugin supported tutorials made specially for kalium excellent customer support (6 months free support) continuous free updates forever ... and we are carefully extending this list on every update! image credits: the sample images viewed in the live preview are for demo purposes only and are not included with your purchase. they’re replaced with sample images so you can easily replace the images with yours. these images are courtesy of: unsplash.com behance.net/adestra behance.net/agagraczykowska behance.net/nasty_small behance.net/elianadedda behance.net/mikistefanoski note: please note that none of the themeforest themes doesn’t work on wordpress.com sites, because wordpress.com does not allow you to install custom themes and plugins (only allowed if you use the business plan). you will need a wordpress installation from wordpress.org running on your own web server. we can’t wait to see what you have created with kalium theme. if you are proud with your site, please submit it to our showcase. hands down, this theme is the absolute best portfolio theme i’ve bought in three years. it’s the perfect mix of flexibility and options with a clean and elegant design. your content and the theme work together, not against each other. i’d give this theme a hundred stars if i could. very clean and minimal design! great for creatives! fantastic customer support!!! this is clearly one of the best themes on themeforest. for design reasons i would say it is the best. just look at the rating on awwwards… stunning… and it makes a lot of fun to use it. this is since a long time the best, most individual and flexible theme i found for wordpress. the quality is great, the support is awesome. i only can recommend this theme to everybody! this theme is simply beautiful – simple to use and rich with features. i bought to house my design portfolio, but it’s so flexible i’m sure i can use it for anything! i had a few initial questions, and they were dealt with promptly and professionally – very happy customer! very well designed theme which perfectly fits my needs. a lot of great features and fastest and most reliable customer support i experienced so far with themes. thanks a lot guys. cheers! this has been an excellent theme to work with. if i could choose more reasons i would. design quality and flexibility are both great, but the support is outstanding! everything works as it should do. great design and a lot of great features. i recommend this! great theme! very flexible and easy to customize. added bonus is the great support! amazing theme for creatives. almost everything is possible and it’s really easy to use. its a really nice interface, and the back end is very straightforward. great support team. nice and clean theme! well coded and easy to understand… even for not professionals! i must say, that the support is very responsive and really helpful… and also the design is modern, simple and beautiful… thanks guys! you are awesome! great theme – my search for the perfect theme is over now, thank you one of the best themes i ever worked with and fast, qualified support love it. awesome design, great features, super cool service team and very user-friendly even with the updates. very prompt and personal! highly recommended. i am naive about web, and the team quickly went out of the way to help me! absolutely one of the best themes i’ve ever seen… this is an exceptional theme, the easiest i have ever worked with and the most capable, so thumbs up! exactly what i was looking for! searched for about 1 year and finally found something matching perfectly for me! thank you! i was immediately convinced of the usefulness of this theme: clean design, readable, customizable… we are glad that themeforest authors love kalium too =) awesome! state of the arts! i’ve been daily working with wp templates for more than 2 years, and i definitely can say that kalium is one of the bests theme ever. it caught my attention because it’s unquestionably beautiful but at the same time, it is awesomely coded and designed. it’s also solid but fluid, with a great performance and full of customizable options, but very very easy to use and a pleasure to work with. to sum up, not only a very beautiful template but a great coded theme. version 2.9.4 new:
— wordpress 5.3 compatibility added
— woocommerce 4.0 compatibility added
— php 7.4 compatibility added

update:
— advanced custom fields pro plugin updated to the latest version in theme package – 5.8.6
— product filter for woocommerce plugin updated to the latest version in theme package - 7.2
— product size guide plugin updated to the latest version in theme package– 3.4

note: 
— if woocommerce releases a plugin update that is newer than version 4.0
 please wait for a compatible theme update.

— if you want to contribute to our language translations here
 is our git repository: https://github.com/arl1nd/kalium-translations
 version 2.9.3 new:
— portfolio category description update on filter – https://d.pr/v/vucxcr
— wpb builder is now supported for woocommerce products
— compatibility for wpbakery shortcodes with wpml page translator
— implementation of flickity sliders for post galleries in blog section

fix:
— portfolio items not able to edit with wpbakery page builder
— target _blank not working for "team member" element in wpb
— broken color pickers style in theme options – https://d.pr/i/vdklai
— full background gallery for side portfolio item type not showing on 992 pixels screen size
— php error showing when image meta-information is unavailable
— radio buttons and checkboxes to work with variation swatches (woocommerce plugin)
— elementor social icons broken icon layout in our containers
— having to click twice to go to portfolio item (on ios devices)
— hover on portfolio item redirects to portfolio item without showing hover layer (android devices)
— multiple carousels crashing on safari browser on ios devices
— clicking fullscreen menu link not hiding the container
— php warning showing when custom hover icon in blog is missing
— fullwidth header logo and menu margin applied on mobile
— skin cannot be saved on wordpress.com websites
— adobe fonts not working on front end
— general bug fixes and performance improvements

update:
— woocommerce 3.7.1 compatibility added
— advanced custom fields pro plugin updated to the latest version in theme package – 5.8.6
— revolution slider plugin updated to the latest version in theme package – 6.1.3
— layer slider plugin updated to the latest version in theme package – 6.9.2
— product filter for woocommerce plugin updated to the latest version in theme package - 7.1.4
— google fonts and font squirrel fonts list updated to the latest version on typolab
— videojs library updated to latest version – 7.6.5
— lazysizes (lazy loader library) updated to latest version – 5.1.2
 kalium update history (view all the changelog details) buy kalium — best creative theme on the market show more show less more items by laborator view author portfolio regular license regular license selected $36 use, by you or one client, in a single end product which end users are not charged for. the total price includes the item price and a buyer fee. extended license selected $1599 use, by you or one client, in a single end product which end users can be charged for. the total price includes the item price and a buyer fee. view license details regular license extended license $60 $36 included: quality checked by envato included: future updates included: theme hosting offer included: 6 months support from laborator what does support include? extend support to 12 months $9 get it now and save up to $12 price is in us dollars. price displayed excludes sales tax. add to cart buy now this item was featured on themeforest power elite author laborator view portfolio 33,342 sales 7,519 comments item rating: 4.94 stars 4.94 average based on 1801 ratings. (more information) 5 star 94% 94% 4 star 5% 5% 3 star 0% 0% 2 star 0% 0% 1 star 0% 0% last update 24 march 20 created 6 april 15 gutenberg optimized yes high resolution yes widget ready yes compatible browsers firefox, safari, opera, chrome, edge compatible with elementor, visual composer 5.1.x, visual composer 4.12.x, woocommerce 4.0.x, woocommerce 3.9.x, woocommerce 3.8.x, woocommerce 3.7.x, woocommerce 3.6.x, woocommerce 3.5.x, woocommerce 3.4.x, woocommerce 3.3.x, woocommerce 3.2.x, woocommerce 3.1.x, woocommerce 3.0.x, wpbakery page builder 6.1.x, wpbakery page builder 6.0.x, wpbakery page builder 5.7.x, wpbakery page builder 5.6.x, wpbakery page builder 5.5.x, wpbakery page builder 5.4.x, wpml, bootstrap 4.x, bootstrap 3.x software version wordpress 5.3.x, wordpress 5.2.x, wordpress 5.1.x, wordpress 5.0.x, wordpress 4.9.x, wordpress 4.8.x, wordpress 4.7.x, wordpress 4.6.1, wordpress 4.6, wordpress 4.5.x, wordpress 4.5.2, wordpress 4.5.1, wordpress 4.5, wordpress 4.4, wordpress 4.3 themeforest files included php files, css files, js files columns 4+ documentation well documented layout responsive tags agency, architecture template, blog, business, clean portfolio, corporate, creative, ecommerce shop, minimal, modern wordpress theme, multipurpose, photography portfolio, portfolio, shopping, woocommerce © all rights reserved laborator contact the envato market help team deliver better projects faster. web, design & video assets unlimited downloads, from $16.50/month effortless design and video. made online by you. smart templates ready for any skill level. designers matched perfectly to you on envato studio 2000 artists ready to undertake your work quick links explore popular categories web themes & templates portfolio wordpress themes business wordpress themes wordpress hosting portfolio website templates responsive website templates video after effects templates apple motion templates video effects free video stock footage stock footage audio royalty free music sound effects best selling royalty free music logic pro files background music code wordpress plugins php script javascript css templates prestashop plugins graphics logo templates business card templates lightroom presets serif fonts free art & illustration images photos food stock photos animal stock photos tech stock photos fitness stock photos nature stock photos design maker logo maker business card maker t-shirt maker banner maker flyer maker video maker intro maker slideshow maker instagram story video maker promo video maker teaser video maker elements wordpress themes stock images website templates logos fonts tuts+ photoshop tutorials javascript tutorials wordpress tutorials free online tutorials free coding tutorials envato market terms licenses market api become an affiliate help themes and templates authors help center join our community community blog forums meetups 58,513,582 items sold $810,271,392 community earnings about envato careers privacy policy sitemap all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax © 2020 envato pty ltd. trademarks and brands are the property of their respective owners. by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax