can't get enough treehugger? sign up now and have it sent straight to your inbox. daily and weekly newsletters available. email address email is required newsletters the daily newsletter the weekly newsletter subscribe × design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows making sustainability sexy design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows about contact newsletters advertisement katherine martinko senior writer / ontario, canada katherine martinko writes about sustainable, low-impact living. her informative and engaging stories have inspired treehugger readers since 2013. experience an expert in sustainable living, katherine writes extensively about reducing waste, the importance of cooking from scratch, choosing clean beauty products and ethical fashion, raising free-range children, and travelling in a lower-impact way. a professional writer, she has been an integral part of treehugger's editorial team since 2013 and her work has taken her to five continents. prior to treehugger, katherine was a staff writer for discovery network's parentables website and maintained a popular personal blog. her work has appeared in the huffington post, the green parent magazine, and been cited in several books. in addition, katherine speaks four languages, is a classically-trained violinist, and an award-winning public speaker and community leader who has worked with refugee resettlement in canada. she lives with her husband and three children in port elgin, ontario. education katherine holds an honours bachelor's degree from the university of toronto with a double major in english literature and history. she studied italian and portuguese while living in sardinia and brazil, respectively, and graduated from the royal conservatory of music's young artist performance academy. feistyredhair latest stories from katherine martinko don't let this pandemic ruin the fight against single-use plastics plastic by katherine martinko march 26, 2020 after asbestos: the campaign to rename a quebec town culture by katherine martinko march 25, 2020 this pandemic is changing how my family eats green food by katherine martinko march 24, 2020 laundry in a time of covid-19 cleaning & organizing by katherine martinko march 24, 2020 spread your grocery dollars beyond the supermarket green food by katherine martinko march 23, 2020 teach your child how to read a paper map family by katherine martinko march 23, 2020 ética jeans are super stylish and sustainable sustainable fashion by katherine martinko march 20, 2020 'glass, metal, plastic' offers a glimpse into the world of new york's bottle collectors environmental policy by katherine martinko march 20, 2020 u.s. national parks waive entry fees to help people get outside health by katherine martinko march 19, 2020 7 decluttering projects for when you're stuck at home cleaning & organizing by katherine martinko march 19, 2020 how to write a better grocery list green food by katherine martinko march 18, 2020 don't flush anything other than toilet paper green home by katherine martinko march 18, 2020 want to reduce food waste? add more grocery stores green food by katherine martinko march 17, 2020 low-income kids need school lunches more than ever now green food by katherine martinko march 16, 2020 what is castile soap? uses and benefits cleaning & organizing by katherine martinko march 16, 2020 how to thrive during a lockdown with kids family by katherine martinko march 13, 2020 now your hair ties and scrunchies can be fair-trade, plastic-free organic beauty by katherine martinko march 13, 2020 greta thunberg's climate strikes are moving online, due to coronavirus climate change by katherine martinko march 12, 2020 1 2 3 4 5 6 … 166 167 most popular right now the top us states for homesteading, tiny homes, and off-grid living here's what the real patch adams has been up to common household products that can kill the coronavirus alley cat laneway house looks a lot bigger than it is jupe health is an 'immediate response to hospital overcrowding' what's hot on facebook teach your child how to read a paper map 20 things to do with chickpeas this pandemic is changing how my family eats cdc lists oil of lemon eucalyptus as comparable to deet for mosquitoes about contact newsletters rss privacy policy copyright © 2020 narrative content group. all rights reserved