menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies katja bart "oh, no, what have i done," is the story of my life. latest posts here’s another reminder to just let it go letting go isn’t re-committing to a relationship that doesn’t feel satisfying to you. by katja bart, 18 nov 2019 here’s what happens when you date a guy you don’t have to make excuses for sometimes, when you’ve been alone for too long, it’s easy to seduce yourself. by katja bart, 8 oct 2019 this is your 30-day guide to living a more motivated, driven, and purposeful life it’s so easy to get demotivated, to let the inaction swallow you up. by katja bart, 15 jul 2019 5 questions to stop asking your queer friends (and 5 questions to ask instead) “so, you’re pansexual and your partner is of the opposite sex. are you still gay?” by katja bart, 20 jun 2019 an open letter to jessica biel: please stop intentions don’t mean anything. consequences do. by katja bart, 20 jun 2019 you’re allowed to enjoy pride even if you’re not ready to come out check your privilege at the rainbow float. by katja bart, 13 jun 2019 15 little mistakes you’re allowed to make when you’re heartbroken rehashing the same stuff with your girlfriends over and over again. by katja bart, 30 may 2019 quitting your job to do what you love means you’re privileged every year, when i do my taxes, i play this game with myself: how much did my writing actually bring me? by katja bart, 10 apr 2019 this is what ptsd really is, because it’s not just nightmares and temper tantrums about nothing nobody can deny that post-traumatic stress disorder is complex. by katja bart, 8 apr 2019 a lovely weekend away featuring me and my anxiety it’s hard to choose time with yourself. it’s even harder when you just don’t like yourself very much. by katja bart, 21 mar 2019 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 next » on the web instagram contact katja name email subject message send get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.