hecklerspray grown up gossip & internet villainy katy perry and orlando bloom are engaged february 16th, 2019 by krysta fitzpatrick well, orlando bloom asked katy perry to marry him and she said yes. if you think this is going to be a blog discussing their relationship, you’d be wrong. instead, i’d like to discuss how fucking annoying i think katy perry has become, and how taylor swift is clearly a witch, because the way katy went from hot to hot mess and kanye went from cool to crazy is some serious white girl voodoo shit. yeah, this blog is going off the rails fast. orlando bloom is a mega hunk, but for some reason has decided to marry the most annoying, over the top white woman on the planet. case in point: i was really on katy’s side in the whole taylor swift versus katy perry feud until a) katy decided to change her look to “bargain basement 2013 miley cyrus”, and b) she out-whited taylor with her atrocious efforts to look cool. it’s kind of crazy how far katy and kanye west have fallen in regards to having any of my respect. it’s almost like someone cursed them and made them start acting like lame, manager calling, bad dancing, white people. which is funny, because those are also things taylor swift has been accused of being. hmmmm….this sounds like some rich white girl voodoo shit if i’ve ever heard it. anyway, congrats to katy and orlando. i don’t really care. comments jon anderson says april 14, 2019 at 8:20 am racism much? jon snow says july 19, 2019 at 5:54 am you don’t care, but you wrote it in four paragraphs. be defined) leave a comment cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * notify me of new posts by email. a mediocre rundown of the 2019 oscars so the jodyn and tristan thing is probably true tristan thompson allegedly cheats on khloe kardashian with jordyn woods lil xan is having a kid and i can't deal with that katy perry and orlando bloom are engaged blogroll rumorfix hecklerspray.com copyright © 2019 · · terms · privacy · dmca · contact