the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop sports news in brief kawhi leonard misses second consecutive family game night citing load management you may also like sports tom brady awakens from week-long kombucha bender to discover he’s a tampa bay buccaneer yesterday 9:30am sports olympic dressage rider enraged after spending past 4 years jauntily trotting around on horse for nothing tuesday 11:33am sports tom brady: ‘i want to thank all the insufferable new england fans for giving me a reason to get the hell out of here’ 3/17/20 11:21am more from g/o media read on trump’s call to reopen economy attributed to new floating virus cloud advisor read on china will lift lockdown on wuhan april 8th read on trump suggests ceding new york to coronavirus as possible appeasement strategy read on british royal family orders citizens to leave u.k. until prince charles recovers subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe 2 hours ago • see more: kawhi leonard kawhi leonardlos angeles clippersnba basketballbasketballnewsvol 56 issue 12 rancho santa fe, ca—saying that his personal health had to remain top priority no matter the demands of the job, clippers superstar kawhi leonard missed his second consecutive family game night friday due to load management. “playing game after game of uno takes a physical and mental toll, so i need to rest up and not put my future on the line,” said leonard, revealing that he still had lingering injuries from back-to-back games of spot it last week. “i know some people expect me to play even if i’m not ready, but i could do long-term damage if i go too hard in some marathon game of apples to apples. i have to look out for my well-being, and that means 48 hours between puzzles. my family has a ‘next man up’ mentality, and i have complete confidence that they’ll step up and take home a win while i’m out.” at press time, leonard expressed concern that if the current pace of family gatherings continued, he would have to miss the entire holiday season. advertisement share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion tom brady awakens from week-long kombucha bender to discover he’s a tampa bay buccaneer department of interior announces birds will continue going about regular bird activities during pandemic increasingly unhinged melissa clark instructs ‘new york times’ readers how to make pizza from old cardboard box historians politely remind nation to check what's happened in past before making any big decisions share tweet