about | press |faqs |contact |videos |galleries navigation home places africa zambia-victoria falls namibia south africa tanzania asia philippines thailand cambodia singapore sri lanka indonesia vietnam myanmar americas usa hawaii latin america mexico belize brasil colombia cuba europe italy sardinia rome tuscany verona portugal albania england poland greece spain malta turkey middle east israel canada photography trip ideas & tips blog start here sardinia page sardinia general info getting around sardinia sardinia by car sardinia by bus & trains sardinia in low season sardinia one week itineraries sardinia best beaches sardinia for couples sardinia for families sardinia for solo travelers sardinia camping travel items electronic & photo gear travel beauty products travel services my favorite hotels sardinia blog work with me english italiano search home places africa zambia-victoria falls namibia south africa tanzania asia philippines thailand cambodia singapore sri lanka indonesia vietnam myanmar americas usa hawaii latin america mexico belize brasil colombia cuba europe italy sardinia rome tuscany verona portugal albania england poland greece spain malta turkey middle east israel canada photography trip ideas & tips blog start here sardinia page sardinia general info getting around sardinia sardinia by car sardinia by bus & trains sardinia in low season sardinia one week itineraries sardinia best beaches sardinia for couples sardinia for families sardinia for solo travelers sardinia camping travel items electronic & photo gear travel beauty products travel services my favorite hotels sardinia blog work with me english italiano search welcome to my website! hey, stranger! i’m clelia, nice to virtually meet you 🙂 an italian mix between bridget jones and indiana jones, i’m a sea lover and globetrotter since age 19. at 35 i quit a steady job at burberry london and bought a one-way ticket to asia. i don’t like to follow the rules, but you can’t say that i don’t follow my dreams and you can do it too! read my story useful articles make money with a blog do you want to open a website and make money but you don’t know where to start? or you want to know about being a digital nomad? read my articles on how to create a blog, monetize it and more! create your blog! how to plan your trip planning a long-term trip or a vacation can be overwhelming at times. after years on the road and countless mistakes, i’ll give you some tips to avoid the stress and mistakes to plan your trip like a pro! plan your trip! travel items i love & recommend being a serial traveler i tested so many things, from photo gear, beauty products, hotels that i loved and much more! everything was bought and/or tested personally by me! for my packing list, click here or… check out what i love! featured posts scroll through the pictures and click on them to read the articles new on the blog don’t miss my new articles, click here to subscribe italian hand gestures & pinched fingers emoji meaning!3 february, 2020 costa smeralda hotels: luxury cheap & best on the beach!20 january, 2020 affiliate marketing: best programs for travel bloggers6 january, 2020 siargao guide-philippines: things to do & where to stay for 20$ a day!9 december, 2019 costa smeralda hotels: luxury cheap & best on the beach!20 january, 2020 best costa smeralda beaches to see before you die!(with map)5 december, 2019 discover sardinia top sardinia itineraries do you want to plan your holiday in sardinia and you have 1 week? i receive so many emails asking me where to stay, what to do and which areas of sardinia are the best for a one week vacation. read the article! sardinia best beaches every year my friends email me asking: “clelia, this summer i really want to go to sardinia! can you recommend the best places/beaches and how to find cheap hotels, resorts and villas in sardinia?” read the article! sardinia low season do you want to visit sardinia but you think it’s too expensive for your budget? relax, as a local, i can help you in achieving your goals! and even finding a beach all for yourself! read the article! read all the articles about sardinia discover europe italy holiday from the eternal beauty of rome to tuscany, lake como, cinque terre, road trips and tips to discover my beautiful italy in the most authentic way! read more about italy! uk holiday the uk is so much more than just london! discover some of the best places in england, scotland and wales. road trips, tips and hidden gems! read more about the uk! spain holiday spain has so much to offer! from its capital, madrid, to the colorful barcelona, the awesome beaches in ibiza and more! read moreabout spain! read all the articles about europe photo galleries this section is totally new and i’m pretty excited about it! some people, after they saw my photos printed and hanged on the wall of my house here in mexico, suggested that i should give the option to buy them, and here we are! well, i am still obviously working on it, as i usually resize all the photos for the website, so finding all the originals will be a real pain, thanks for your patience! photo galleries thank you for your visit! read in: italian sardinia holidays page work with me faq contact keepcalmandtravel, a travel website owned by clelia mattana -all rights reserved – © 2012 - 2020- all the images are subjected to copyright. amazon affiliate disclosure keep calm and travel is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. type and press “enter” to search this site uses cookies more infono problem