/ boing boing's shop / 1:00 pm fri mar 27, 2020 keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses follow us twitter / facebook / rss many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it's stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to invest in yourself by learning a new in-demand skill set or improving upon the one you're already familiar with. it's easy to do that at your own pace, from the comfort of home, with integrity training: online workforce courses. offering proven on-demand training for corporate, government, and education employees, integrity membership gives you lifetime access to all 600+ current courses with completion certificates covering a wide variety of topics, including it certification, project management, business, and soft skills, sales and marketing, design, big data, programming languages, blockchain development, and more. across all subject matter, you'll learn from field experts with 15+ years of experience and multiple certifications from microsoft, comptia, pmi, itil, cisco, vmware, mile 2, and more. you can access online courses 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, from pretty much any device, plus you'll receive certified content, unlimited graded practice exams, and completion certificates. with good reviews—like this one from hr director molly tompkins: "the sheer number of courses available at this price is incredible. the courses are high quality and well worth the money."— and an affordable price, you can be sure you're getting a great value. by keeping your mind sharp and continuing to advance your skillset, you'll become more marketable than you were before and that could give you a big boost when it comes to job hunting or applying for a promotion. secure your lifetime access to integrity training: online workforce courses for only $59 and save 95% on a worthwhile investment. share / tweet / comments shop get the boing boing newsletter hackers tried to break into who, which faces more than two-fold increase in cyberattacks hackers tried to break into the world health organization earlier in march, as the covid-19 pandemic spread, reuters reports. security experts blame an advanced cyber-espionage hacker group known as darkhotel. a senior agency official says the who has been facing a more than two-fold increase in cyberattacks since the coronavirus pandemic began. read the rest netflix launches $100 million coronavirus relief fund to help jobless cast and crew additional $15m will go to third parties and nonprofits read the rest coronavirus: telecom italia says internet traffic up 70%+, mostly online games like fortnite, call of duty the death toll in italy’s coronavirus outbreak today passed 1,000. schools throughout italy are completely shut down, which is reportedly driving a surge in internet traffic as bored kids forced to stay indoors turn to online games. read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest lytepop electrolyte infused popcorn is an organic, low-calorie, gluten-free and tasty trea stuck at home? us too. and all anyone can think about is food. stuffing your face for hours on end is definitely not a good way to stay healthy right now, but if you’re going to do it anyway (let’s be real—your original stash is already gone), why not improve what you’re snacking on? no, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support