home comments policy subscribe from the category archives: ken macleod seminar ken macleod seminar by henry on may 19, 2015 the posts in the ken macleod seminar, in order of publication: farah mendlesohn, and this, too is a romance. cosma shalizi, “the free development of each is the condition of the war of all against all”: some paths to the true knowledge. sumana harihareswara, games, simulation, difference and insignificance in the restoration game & the human front. jo walton, helical construction in the work of ken macleod. henry farrell, rationalism and the true knowledge. ken macleod, response. response by ken macleod on may 19, 2015 thanks, everyone, for all this. it’s gratifying and somewhat bemusing to have my work given so much thought, and such warm appreciation, from contributors like these, and on a site like this. i’m particularly grateful to those who’ve given my books the great and welcome benefit of their critical attention and/or enthusiasm over many years. i’ve decided to respond to each in turn, in an order that follows the order of the books referred to: farrell and shalizi focus mostly on the fall revolution books, walton takes in the engines of light trilogy, harihareswara deals with the restoration game and the human front, and mendlesohn covers everything up to intrusion. there will be references back and forward—some points raised by farrell and shalizi, for example, are better answered in relation to later stories. and in my own life, some events that shaped my early books are only explored (and then obliquely, with much misdirection) in later ones. [click to continue…] rationalism and the true knowledge by henry on may 15, 2015 the introduction to the american edition of the star fraction contains ken macleod’s second-most famous dictum – “history is the trade secret of science fiction, and theories of history are its invisible engine.” the fall revolution books are all about history and people trying to make it (or perhaps more accurately, histories, and people trying to make them). they’re also books that reflect a very specific historical period – when the berlin wall had fallen or was about to fall but the washington consensus had yet to gel – a moment where the cold logic of nuclear deterrence still held, sort of, while the political transformation of eastern europe and the new market anarchism of sachs, drugs and rock and roll was starting to get going. maybe the closest thing to the manic intensity of the first three books (and chunks of the fourth) is the zone of thomas pynchon’s gravity’s rainbow – black markets, hustlers, ideas, freewheeling politics, and the frozen arc of the rocket still hanging above it all. they’re also (and much more so than pynchon, whose zaniness is often forced) very funny books – they don’t play anything for obvious laughs, but are riddled through with intellectual black comedy. [click to continue…] helical construction in the work of ken macleod by jo walton on may 14, 2015 there’s a technique that macleod uses in several novels which i call helical construction. in helical construction, the story is told in two interwoven strands, each strand entirely separate from the other, both progressing forward in time and joining at the end. chapters alternate between the two strands. if you consider the events of the book chronologically, the events of the past strand all take place before any of the events of the future strand, but the reader encounters the two strands in tandem. this casts shadows in both directions in terms of plot, foreshadowing, reader knowledge and expectations, and subverts a lot of the traditional ways stories are told. [click to continue…] games, simulation, difference and insignificance in the restoration game & the human front by sumana harihareswara on may 13, 2015 i had, frankly, been afraid of trying to read ken macleod, because i wasn’t sure i had the prerequisite domain knowledge. i studied russian and majored in political science at uc berkeley,[^fn0] and wasn’t sure that this had given me enough expertise on the history of communism to jump into his work. now that i’ve overcome this fear, i should check whether there’s a market for a mooc, “remedial ken macleod prerequisites,” in which i discuss leftism in the twentieth century, macleod’s crony and [former big pharma dispenser][1] charles stross, and the landscape of rural scotland, or, “reds, meds, and sheds.” then again, perhaps that’s unnecessary; even if you think a mexican icepick is a margarita with extra salt, you can still enjoy the restoration game (novel, 2010) and, to a lesser extent, the human front (novella, 2001). spoilers commence here! [click to continue…] “the free development of each is the condition of the war of all against all”: some paths to the true knowledge by cosma shalizi on may 12, 2015 attention conservation notice: a 5000+ word attempt to provide real ancestors and support for an imaginary ideology i don’t actually accept, drawing on fields in which i am in no way an expert. contains long quotations from even-longer-dead writers, reckless extrapolation from arcane scientific theories, and an unwarranted tone of patiently explaining harsh, basic truths. altogether, academic in one of the worst senses. also, spoilers for several of macleod’s novels, notably but not just the cassini division. i’ll let ellen may ngewthu, late of the cassini division, open things up: [click to continue…] recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter