skip to main content donate donate subscribe 2020 elections coronavirus richard burr public housing politics environment crime and justice food media investigations photos magazine podcasts newsletters 2020 elections coronavirus richard burr public housing subscribe to our magazine donate smart, fearless journalism politics environment crime and justice food media investigations photos magazine podcasts membership ticker monika bauerlein, ceo dear reader, how are you holding up? i’ve been thinking a lot about what is happening with the mother jones community, and i’m hoping you’ll share what is happening in your life. you can do that and find out what mother jones is investigating in response to the pandemic in our new column, "greed destroyed our social immune system. it’s time to rebuild it." thanks for reading. please stay safe. in "greed destroyed our social immune system. it’s time to rebuild it," ceo monika bauerlein checks in with our community and shares how mother jones’ journalists are responding to the pandemic. kevin drum friday cat blogging – 27 march 2020 kevin drum2 hours ago this is the sternest look that hilbert and hopper are capable of. stay home and pet ur catz! they are virus free and you don’t even have to shop for them since you can buy months’ worth of cat food at once. staying home with your cats is the safest possible activity you can engage in during these difficult times. share on facebook share on twitter email comments in the coronavirus bill, most of the money for ordinary people is thanks to democrats kevin drum2 hours ago say something!kevin drum judging from my twitter feed—i know, i know—conservatives know only one thing about the democratic party contribution to the coronavirus rescue bill: it includes money for obamaphones and the kennedy center. i assume that this is basically the only thing fox news has told them. that’s the conservative noise machine for you. even in the face of a massive pandemic the only thing they care about is pressing trumpish hot buttons for their audience. still, i wonder: how many people of any political persuasion understand that the expansion of unemployment benefits in the rescue bill is worth an extra $600 per week through the end of june? how many understand that this adds up to $10,000 or so? how many understand that this is literally the only thing in the bill that will keep most people whole while they’re out of work thanks to government lockdowns? and how many understand that the only reason this is in the bill is because democrats insisted on it? republicans couldn’t have cared less. their original bill bailed out businesses and gave people a flashy but utterly inadequate one-shot $1,200 check. that was it. that was all anyone would have had to get them through the next few months. but why would anyone know this unless democrats do something to take credit for it? have they? not that i’ve heard. so conservatives think democrats were all about obamaphones and the kennedy center, while everyone else figures that democrats did nothing. once again, then, democrats do the right thing but commit political malpractice by not crowing about it. it’s a wonder the party is still in business. share on facebook share on twitter email comments coronavirus growth in western countries: march 26 update kevin drum6 hours ago here’s the coronavirus growth rate through thursday. the chart for canada was incorrect yesterday for some reason, but it’s been corrected today. the italian death rate continues to decelerate on the same trendline as yesterday. the us death toll remains anomalously low, but i don’t know why. it could be a statistical artifact based on the choice of day 0 or it could be something real based on how we treat coronavirus cases. the latter would be pretty intriguing, but right now it’s too early to tell. here’s how to read the charts: let’s use france as an example. for them, day 0 was march 5, when they surpassed one death per 10 million by recording their sixth death. they are currently at day 21; total deaths are at 283x their initial level; and they have recorded a total of 25.3 deaths per million so far. as the chart shows, this is slightly below where italy was on their day 21. the raw data from johns hopkins is here. share on facebook share on twitter email comments will tipped workers be ok? kevin drum6 hours ago the wall street journal tells us about the plight of tipped workers who are now unemployed: take ian prebo. on a good night, mr. prebo was making $400 in tips bartending at seattle’s blue moon tavern, which closed this month after a patron caught covid-19. since then, like many bars and restaurants across the country, blue moon tavern—which can’t provide takeout or delivery—has remained shut. mr. prebo, 36 years old, estimated roughly three-quarters of his monthly $3,500 income was from tips. after applying for unemployment benefits, he was told he would receive $188 a week. “i have customers who take care of me,” he said. “but the flip side is in a catastrophic event like this, my income is completely wiped out.” why does the journal use this as its opening anecdote? as they acknowledge farther down, the median wage for tipped workers is a meager $2,000 per month, which means that prebo’s experience is not even remotely typical. what’s more, the expanded unemployment insurance in the coronavirus rescue bill will pay at least $800 per week for low-wage workers. virtually all of them will lose no income, and some might even make more than they did while working. these are tough times, and the benefits from the rescue bill are still a few weeks away. i have nothing but sympathy for low-wage workers who are scared about what’s happening. nevertheless, we’ve just passed legislation that will make up the lost income for nearly all of them, and surely that should rate more than a passing sentence midway through the story? share on facebook share on twitter email comments survey results: we’ll be housebound through june kevin drum8 hours ago here are the results of yesterday’s survey: this doesn’t seem like a bad guess to me. i think we have to be prepared to hunker down through june, and two-thirds of you agree that it’s going to be june or later. on the other hand, a third of you think we’ll be finished with control measures by may, and that’s despite the fact that my readers tend to be pretty well informed and pay no attention to donald trump. i wonder if a real survey would show that most people think we’ll be done with this whole thing by the end of april? share on facebook share on twitter email comments ferguson: r0 for coronavirus is probably 3.1 kevin drum17 hours ago from the department of buried leads: new data from the rest of europe suggests that the outbreak is running faster than expected, said [neil] ferguson. as a result, epidemiologists have revised their estimate of the reproduction number (r0) of the virus. this measure of how many other people a carrier usually infects is now believed to be just over three, he said, up from 2.5. “that adds more evidence to support the more intensive social distancing measures,” he said. neil ferguson is the guy in charge of the imperial college study that predicted 2 million coronavirus deaths in the us and 500,000 in britain if no control measures were taken. he now believes that britain will keep its death toll under 20,000 due to the strong isolation and social distancing measures being taken. which is great! at the same time, estimating that r0 has increased from 2.5 to 3.1 is . . . very, very bad. it means that on average, every infected person infects three other people, not 2.5 other people—which makes the spread of the virus much wider and faster. without any control measures, for example, it means that after ten generations a single person will be responsible for 120,000 infections instead of 15,000 infections. in other words, control measures are even more important than we thought. this is really, really no time for donald trump to be screwing around with this stuff. share on facebook share on twitter email comments survey: how long will the lockdown last? kevin drum19 hours ago here’s a quick survey for you. i’m just asking for your best guess based on what you’re hearing from experts and media briefings. <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_selres_start">﻿</span>loading… share on facebook share on twitter email comments it’s time: dr. fauci needs to stand up to trump kevin drum19 hours ago gripas yuri/abaca via zuma hmmm: there is no evidence that trump could tell a lie so false and dangerous that dr. fauci wouldn’t immediately leap to defend it as a reasonable way of giving americans hope.https://t.co/xz5m5qkdgq — susan simpson (@theviewfromll2) march 27, 2020 i know my position on fauci is an unpopular one, but he needs to knock this off. whenever he waffles and equivocates like this he lends trump credibility for everything he says—and trump’s blatherings are heard by ten times more people than fauci’s next-day corrections. on a net basis, fauci is doing more harm than good unless he stands up to trump more forthrightly and consistently. share on facebook share on twitter email comments democrats took a terrible coronavirus bill and made it pretty damn good kevin drum23 hours ago stefani reynolds/cnp via zuma a week ago republicans introduced the first version of their coronavirus rescue bill. here’s what democrats have gotten added to it since then: vastly expanded unemployment benefits through june for anyone who’s lost income due to covid-19. $100 billion for hospitals. a change in the “checks for everyone” program to insure that low-income workers get the full $1,200. removal of a provision that would have excluded nonprofits that receive medicaid funding from the small-business grants. a ban on the trump family getting aid. oversight on the corporate lending facility. $150 billion for state and local governments. $25 billion for food stamps. $30 billion for schools. is this perfect? no. are there any objectionable parts of the bill still included? yes. did democrats get every last thing they wanted? no. is this nonetheless a damn good effort that’s going to help millions of ordinary americans get through the crisis without being evicted, going bankrupt, or continuing to work in unsafe conditions? oh yes indeed. love ’em or hate ’em, this is good work from the democratic party. it’s only because of the final form of this bill that we have a fighting chance of getting through the coronavirus pandemic without destroying the economy along the way. share on facebook share on twitter email comments lunchtime photo — throwback thursday kevin drummarch 26, 2020 this is one of my very oldest digital pictures, taken in 2001 on a corporate outing to switzerland. it shows the city walls of lucerne in the morning mist, and luckily for us photoshop has restored it to a halfway decent condition. the accompaniment is a vivaldi oboe concerto with my (distant) swiss cousin heinz holliger on the oboe. it’s a soothing tune for these stressful days. october 10, 2001 — lucerne, switzerland share on facebook share on twitter email comments next mag promo independent. in print. in your mailbox. inexpensive, too! subscribe today and get a full year of mother jones for just $12. subscribe april 2020 february 2020 december 2019 podcast promo smart. fearless. audio. it's us but for your ears. listen on apple podcasts. subscribe » looking for news you can trust? subscribe to our free newsletters. email about our staff financials jobs events contact us support ways to give advertise with us store subscribe magazine subscriptions give a gift subscription email newsletters podcasts customer service copyright © 2020 mother jones and the foundation for national progress. all rights reserved. terms of service privacy policy we noticed you have an ad blocker on. can you pitch in a few bucks to help fund mother jones' investigative journalism? we're a nonprofit (so it's tax-deductible), and reader support makes up about two-thirds of our budget. we noticed you have an ad blocker on. can you pitch in a few bucks to help fund mother jones' investigative journalism? donate not now