engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here hbo’s 'kill chain' doc highlights the flaws in us election machines latest in tomorrow the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists 4h ago view tesla's autopilot could soon detect traffic lights 4h ago view key vote on alphabet's smart neighborhood delayed over coronavirus 7h ago view alphabet’s verily shows how its drive-thru covid-19 testing sites work 03.26.20 view image credit: key vote on alphabet's smart neighborhood delayed over coronavirus waterfront toronto will now make a decision by june 25th. nick summers, @nisummers 7h ago comments 49 shares share tweet share sponsored links sidewalk labs sidewalk labs, the part of alphabet focused on smart cities, will have to wait a while longer to find out whether its quayside project can go ahead. waterfront toronto, a tri-government organization spearheading the city's lakeside overhaul, has pushed the deadline for a decisive vote to june 25th. "in view of the covid-19 pandemic, today the waterfront toronto board of directors passed a motion to extend the date for a decision on moving forward with the quayside project with sidewalk labs," it said in a tweet. the vote has been pushed back on a number of occasions. a plan development agreement published in july 2018 set a deadline of september 30th, 2019, for instance. the document that waterfront toronto will be voting on -- a master innovation and development plan (midp) spanning four volumes and almost 1,000 pages -- wasn't released by sidewalk labs until last june, though. waterfront toronto immediately took issue with some of the midp's proposals, which included an extension of the quayside concept to a larger 190-acre 'idea district.' it was. no surprise, therefore, when the pair published an amendment to the plan development agreement that pushed the midp vote to march 31st, 2020. the "threshold issues" identified by waterfront toronto were settled last october. sidewalk labs agreed to all of the organization's demands, which included scaling the project's scope back to quayside. waterfront toronto then began a technical evaluation -- a line-by-line analysis of the midp -- that will inform the board's final decision. in january, though, the organization agreed to push the deadline for the vote once more from march 31st to may 20th. stephen diamond, the chair of waterfront toronto's board, said the extension would give the public more time to express their hopes and fears about the project. "this board will not sacrifice the public good for expediency," he added in a statement. the results of the technical evaluation were published last month. the team at waterfront toronto broke the midp down into 160 distinct proposals and rejected 16 of them. some of these included an "efficient" and "ultra efficient" housing concept, a special "raincoat" awning that could protect nearby pedestrians from rain, and a link between a proposed thermal grid and the ashbridges bay wastewater treatment plant in toronto. according to sidewalk labs, most of the rejections were related to the already renegotiated threshold issues. "that said, we are still in active negotiations with waterfront toronto and are still reviewing what will be possible at quayside," a spokesperson for sidewalk labs added in a tweet. if waterfront toronto's board votes against the midp, the plan development agreement will be terminated and sidewalk labs will lose its role as innovation and funding partner. if the master blueprint is approved, the pair will have until the end of the year to finalize some principal implementation agreements which, as the name implies, will determine exactly how the quayside project should be realized. in short, it's a critical period for sidewalk labs, which has now spent three years (waterfront toronto started looking for an innovation and funding partner in march 2017) researching and planning its neighborhood of the future. if you're curious about the project and what sidewalk labs is envisioning for quayside, check out this explainer that links to all four midp sections. in this article: alphabet, canada, google, politics, quayside, sidewalk labs, smart city, smart neighborhood, tomorrow, toronto all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments 49 shares share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr