moz products blog about search resources resources moz pro moz local free seo tools log in menu icon-close seo learning center broaden your seo knowledge with resources for all skill levels. the beginner's guide to seo if you're brand new to seo, start here. seo q&a get answers from the moz community. free downloads and more quick access to whitepapers, reports, guides, webinars, and case studies. help hub learn how to use moz products. community & events connect with over 600k online marketers. seo training instructor-led classes and seminars an all-in-one seo toolset to boost your search engine rankings. learn about moz pro get started free link explorer the ultimate link analysis tool, complete with competitor insights. keyword explorer discover and prioritize the best keywords for your site. mozbar get live page metrics right in your chrome browser. moz pro home campaigns monitor your seo performance and get insights to increase organic traffic. local market analytics beta spot opportunity in target markets with local metrics and top serp competitors. research tools keyword explorer link explorer fresh web explorer on-page grader on-demand crawl rank checker local data management solution to help customers find your business online. learn about moz local get started free moz local enterprise local data management that is simple and cost effective for hundreds or thousands of locations. check my online presence see how complete and consistent your business’s location appears across the web. manage location dashboard check online presence search products blog about resources seo learning center the beginner's guide to seo seo q&a free downloads and more help hub community & events seo training moz pro learn about moz pro moz pro home link explorer keyword explorer mozbar moz local learn about moz local moz local enterprise check my online presence free seo tools log in meet keyword explorer the keyword research tool with over 500 million traffic-driving keywords. keyword explorer search keywords now how it works enter a url or keyword to discover and prioritize the best keywords to target. create a moz account to access keyword explorer and other free seo tools. we send a notification to verify your email — help us keep the robots out. get a comprehensive keyword analysis, suggestions, and more! do better keyword research in less time. identify which keywords your site could rank for right now and find high-impact suggestions. 500 million keyword suggestions 180 million fresh ranking keywords 170 google search engines perform in-depth keyword and serp analysis with the industry-leading keyword research tool. analyze keywords by search volume effectively predict how much search volume a keyword will receive with more than 95% accuracy. generate and save keyword lists comprehensive scoring helps you prioritize keywords by topic or focus in one place to use as a keyword planner. export your data easily export keyword research suggestions, analyses, and lists into metrics-rich, well-formatted csvs. find keywords in question format stay ahead of the curve by targeting long-tail keywords with high relevance, broadly related topics, or keywords in the form of questions. sort by predictive keyword metrics the keyword difficulty, volume, and expected organic click-through rate scores help predict your ability to rank and drive traffic. review serp details by keyword understand why pages rank where they do with a serp analysis breakdown of the elements and link data at each ranking position. check keyword difficulty moz’s proprietary keyword difficulty score shows how easy (or hard) it is to rank on each serp. take your seo strategy global search keyword suggestions and ranking keywords by country for better international seo strategies. perform competitive keyword analysis see what keywords your site ranks for and discover your competitors' most important keywords. moz’s keyword explorer neatly ties together keyword research metrics and makes complex analysis easy so we can spend less time in spreadsheets and more time generating qualified website traffic. sean director, demand generation & customer acquisition at virtru part of the most trusted seo analytics platform keyword explorer is part of the entire moz pro seo analytics platform. improve the roi of your content strategy with competitive intelligence and actionable recommendations. keyword explorer search keywords now moz contact products api free trial terms & privacy jobs help news & press copyright 2020 © moz, inc. all rights reserved. back to top seo tools keyword research seo audit & crawl backlink research rank tracking seo toolbar domain analysis local marketing business listings audit citation cleanup local ranking factors local for enterprise marketing resources moz blog beginner’s guide to seo community q&a workshops & training recommended seo companies moz solutions agency enterprise small & mid-sized businesses get the moz top 10 the 10 most valuable pieces of content we can find for seos. every 2 weeks. subscribe today