if you're seeing this message, it means we're having trouble loading external resources on our website. if you're behind a web filter, please make sure that the domains *.kastatic.org and *.kasandbox.org are unblocked. main content to log in and use all the features of khan academy, please enable javascript in your browser. blog about impact team interns content specialists leadership supporters translators blog khan academy kids adds new first-grade lessons 2020-03-02 17:04:49 gmt khan academy kids, our award-winning educational app for children ages two to seven, now includes new first-grade lessons. we’ve added thousands of interactive activities, lessons, and books: - more than 5,700 activities aligned with first-grade english language arts (ela) and math common core standards - more than 80 animated instructional videos featuring the animated characters of khan academy kids 59 new books: - nonfiction science books from national geographic and bellwether media - original fiction stories for early readers - books covering social-emotional topics and featuring compelling new characters like caterpillar, who showcases patience and self-confidence, and seahorse, who learns to be brave and face his fears to help his friend jellyfish the goal of khan academy kids is to help young learners everywhere learn to read, thrive in a classroom, count, be creative, ask questions, and—above all—build a love of learning. when we launched khan academy kids in 2018, we wanted to help kids from all backgrounds and all walks of life be kindergarten ready. this spring many of the children who are using our app will graduate from kindergarten and move on to first grade. we’re excited to be able to continue the learning journey with them by providing first-grade lessons. like the rest of the app, our new first-grade lessons are designed with a whole-child focus. our program engages kids in core subjects like early literacy, reading, writing, language, and math, while encouraging creativity and building social-emotional skills. khan academy kids is aligned with common core standards and the head start early learning outcomes framework, and it was developed in collaboration with education experts at stanford university. the new first-grade lessons are available now on the khan academy kids. the app is 100% free with no ads, in-app purchases, or subscriptions. download the app today on ios or android. download for ios download for google play download for amazon with the support of education leaders like super simple songs®, bellwether media, and national geographic young explorer magazine, we’re providing young learners with high-quality educational materials to spark a lifelong love of learning. khan academy kids is made possible through generous support from imaginable futures and windsong trust. tagged: early learning 1st grade preschool kindergarten free apps for kids department blogs coaching resources engineering international follow us subscribe to this blog join us on facebook follow us on twitter