if you're seeing this message, it means we're having trouble loading external resources on our website. if you're behind a web filter, please make sure that the domains *.kastatic.org and *.kasandbox.org are unblocked. to log in and use all the features of khan academy, please enable javascript in your browser. courses search donateloginsign up search for courses, skills, and videos main content for every student, every classroom. real results. we’re a nonprofit with the mission to provide a free, world-class education for anyone, anywhere. learners teachers parents learners, teachers, and parents: start here start here why khan academy works personalized learningstudents practice at their own pace, first filling in gaps in their understanding and then accelerating their learning. trusted contentcreated by experts, khan academy’s library of trusted practice and lessons covers math, science, and more. always free for learners and teachers. tools to empower teacherswith khan academy, teachers can identify gaps in their students’ understanding, tailor instruction, and meet the needs of every student. teachers differentiate your classroom and engage every student. we empower teachers to support their entire classroom. 90% of us teachers who have used khan academy have found us effective.source: 2018 constat u.s. online education customer survey teachers, start here teachers, start here learners and students you can learn anything. build a deep, solid understanding in math, science, and more. learners, start here learners, start here “i come from a poor family. at home it’s one room, just a room we live in. when i was a child, i used to fear mathematics. but now, i am in love with mathematics because of khan academy.” anjaliindia together we can make a difference every child deserves the chance to learn. across the globe, 617 million children are missing basic math and reading skills. we’re a nonprofit delivering the education they need, and we need your help. you can change the course of a child’s life. give them the chance give them the chance join khan academy today learners teachers parents give todayback key supporters covid-19 crisis supporters our mission is to provide a free, world-class education to anyone, anywhere. khan academy is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. donate or volunteer today! site navigation about news impact our team our interns our content specialists our leadership our supporters our contributors our finances careers internships contact help center support community share your story press download our apps ios app android app courses language view khan academy in: go countryu.s.indiamexicobrazil © 2020 khan academy terms of use privacy policy