khan academy international pages learn more about our language advocates tags news and information about khan academy's international efforts to enable access to a free, world-class education for anyone, anywhere. help us translate! and learn more about our amazing language advocates! remote learning with khan academy during school closures read this article in another language: հայերեն, български, 简体中文, čeština, español, français, ქართული, italiano, 日本語 , 한국어, magyar, po polsku, português (brasil), português (portugal), svenska, русский, türkçe 2020-03-05 17:32:59 gmt updated march 13, 2020 resources for schools, teachers, and parents hello parents and teachers, with concerns growing over the coronavirus (covid-19), we know many of you are making plans to keep learning going should your school need to close. as parents and teachers ourselves, we know there’s a lot on your minds, from health and safety to child care and jobs. we want to do everything we can to support you. we are a nonprofit organization with free educational resources. here are guides we’ve created for you: parents • parent quick start guide • parents: frequently asked questions about school closures • a free webinar for parents is taking place wednesday, march 18, at 8:00 pm et / 5:00 pm pt. recordings will be available for those who can not attend. teachers • free teacher resources • watch a recording of a free webinar for teachers who would like to learn how to use khan academy. khan academy is a free resource for students, teachers, and parents. what is khan academy? we offer exercises, quizzes, and tests so students can practice and master skills, as well as instructional videos to help students learn or review material. • khan academy has a library of standards-aligned lessons covering kindergarten through early college math, grammar, science, history, ap® courses, sat® preparation, and more. • students can practice skills with exercises, quizzes, and mastery challenges and get immediate feedback and support. • khan academy is available in 40+ languages. • students without laptops can access the khan academy website or use the khan academy app on smart phones. teachers get tools and reports designed specifically for them. • teachers can easily assign students an entire course—algebra 1 or ap biology, for example—a specific unit, or a specific skill. • teachers can easily track student progress with our reports. school and teacher resources: how can you use khan academy? we have several resources including a step-by-step welcome guide and a series of online videos featuring real teachers demonstrating how to use khan academy to assign instructional videos and practice skills and monitor student progress. all these resources are available at teacher essentials. teachers can also join our #teachwithkhan facebook group. how to get started: 1) create free accounts from our home page. 2) take a tour of our free content. 3) check out our teacher and parent resources, and learn how you can easily assign students a course to master. more questions? visit our help center. khan academy kids for early learners if you have a child ages two to seven, we recommend our free app, khan academy kids. in addition to building early literacy, reading, writing, language, and math skills, the app encourages creativity and builds social-emotional skills. it is 100% free, with no ads and no in-app purchases. khan academy kids is available on itunes, google play, and the amazon app store. khan academy is a nonprofit organization. our mission is to provide a free, world-class education to anyone, anywhere. we are closely monitoring the impact of covid-19, and are here to assist communities with their learning needs. sincerely, the khan academy team 1 week ago, 4 notes highlights from our 2019 khan academy language advocate convention we recently hosted our fourth annual khan academy language advocate convention, where we were joined by 23 language advocates representing 15 languages—and a whopping eight different alphabets! our language advocates lead the effort to translate khan academy into dozens of different languages. their work is crucial to achieving the anywhere part of our mission to provide a free, world-class education to anyone, anywhere. khan academy staff and language advocates exchanged best practices on everything from raising funds to raising awareness of khan academy through social media. language advocates also shared translation tips and tools with each other and presented to the entire khan academy staff about their efforts to make khan academy available around the world. last but certainly not least, each language advocate brought a tasty treat from their home country so everyone could share in a delicious, international buffet. our language advocates work hard to make sure khan academy content isn’t just translated into different languages but made applicable to each country’s local context. for example, an english math problem about susie buying apples may turn into a problem about hélène buying grapes in french or fatima buying mangoes in hindi. in 2019 we introduced functionality for language advocates to curate khan academy content to match their local curricula, and a focus of this year’s convention was sharing best practices for aligning khan academy to each country’s curricula and implementing khan academy in schools. finally, language advocates met with sal khan, our founder and ceo, to discuss the future of khan academy as well as the similarity between their efforts to create and launch khan academy in new languages today and sal’s effort to create and launch khan academy 10 years ago. here’s to continuing to work together with translators around the world toward making a free, world-class education available to anyone, anywhere 3 months ago, 4 notes khan academy is now available in uzbek! we are excited to announce the launch of a new khan academy language site: khan academy uzbek! khan academy uzbek joins the 28 khan academy language sites that already exist, and are still expanding and adding new translated content (see below for the full list). the vast majority of these sites are translated and maintained by volunteers and international nonprofit organizations - if you are interested in volunteering to translate for khan academy, learn more about our volunteer translator program. a note from the uzbek team within less than a year and after giving enormous efforts, our team has made a marvelous result in localizing khan academy into the uzbek language. as of august 2019, the khan academy platform is now available in uzbek. two subjects — early math and arithmetic — are already available, and several more subjects are in process and will be launched soon. khan academy uzbek is not just a project (even if we call it that), it is a huge movement aimed at development of education for all uzbek speaking people. all khan academy language sites armenian · bengali/bangla · bulgarian · chinese (simplified) · czech · danish · dutch · french · georgian · german · gujarati · hindi · hungarian · indonesian · italian · japanese · kannada · korean · mongolian · norwegian bokmal · polish · portuguese (brazilian) · portuguese (portugal) · serbian · spanish · swedish · tamil · turkish we also have work-in-progress sites for these 14 languages: arabic · greek · dari · hebrew · malay · persian · russian · swahili · telugu · thai · ukrainian · urdu · xhosa · zulu 3 months ago khan academy now available in hungarian and kannada! we are excited to announce the launch of two new khan academy language sites: khan academy hungarian and khan academy kannada! these two sites join 26 khan academy language sites that already exist and are still expanding and adding new translated content (see below for the full list). the vast majority of these sites are translated and maintained by volunteers and international nonprofit organizations - if you are interested in volunteering to translate for khan academy, learn more about our volunteer translator program. a note from the hungarian team after two years of two dozen volunteer translators’ dedicated work, khan academy now is available in hungarian. it offers learning material in early math, computing, chemistry and music. the work has been coordinated by the akadémia határok nélkül (academy without borders) foundation. we are working hard so that we can add more content and more subjects soon. our aim is to provide the chance to each hungarian learner no matter where they come from to fulfil their potential, and to experience the love of learning! egy húszfős önkéntes fordítócsapat kétévi elkötelezett munkája eredményeképp megnyílt a magyar nyelvű khan academy honlap, mely jelenleg alapszintű matematika, informatika, kémia és zenei tananyagokat kínál. a munkát – mely tovább folytatódik – az akadémia határok nélkül alapítvány fogja össze azzal a szándékkal, hogy mielőbb minél több tartalmat, tantárggyal tudjuk a meglévő anyagokat bővíteni. célunk, hogy minden magyar tanulni vágyó egyénnek esélyt adjunk rá, hogy kibontakoztathassa képességeit, és hogy ráérezzen a tanulás örömére. a note from the kannada team khan academy is now available in kannada. kannada is spoken by 45 million people in the southern state of india called karnataka. 4.8 million students write their board exams in kannada across 10,300 schools. our kannada site hopes to bring khan content to all these students; as of july 2019 maths is available from class 5 through 10 for these students. perhaps in a first of its kind, the localization was carried out by teachers in the government schools of karnataka. two video creators and nearly a hundred text translators across 5 districts helped localize 2,300 videos and 1.3 million words. it took them just seven months to complete this. the immediate next step is to localize more math content before beginning localization of science content. all khan academy language sites armenian · bengali/bangla · bulgarian · chinese (simplified, china mainland) · czech · danish · dutch · french · georgian · german · gujarati · hindi · indonesian · italian · japanese · korean · mongolian · norwegian bokmal · polish · portuguese (brazilian) · portuguese (portugal) · serbian · spanish · swedish · tamil · turkish we also have work-in-progress sites for these 14 languages: arabic · greek · dari · hebrew · malay · persian · russian · swahili · telugu · thai · ukrainian · urdu · xhosa · zulu 7 months ago, 1 note khan academy and learning equality in cameroon here’s a story from a collaboration in cameroon, about how learning in your local language can make such a difference! and how khan academy and learning equality are working together to bring education to places and people that really need it, even if they don’t have internet access… https://blog.learningequality.org/learning-in-his-mother-tongue-made-education-a-cherished-part-of-his-life-c47c38526a6d 9 months ago, 4 notes a successful 2018 language advocate convention we just wrapped up our third annual language advocate convention, where we were joined by 30 language advocates representing 20 languages—and a whopping 14 different alphabets! khan academy staff and language advocates exchanged best practices on everything from marketing and fundraising to effectively partnering with schools using khan academy in the classroom. language advocates also shared translation tips and tools with each other and presented to the entire khan academy staff about their efforts to make khan academy available around the world. last but certainly not least, each language advocate brought a tasty treat from their home country so everyone could share in a delicious, international buffet. language advocates work hard to make sure khan academy content isn’t just translated into different languages but made applicable to each country’s local context. for example, an english math problem about a game of baseball may turn into a problem about a game of soccer in portuguese or cricket in hindi. a major focus of the convention was the 2019 goal of creating fully localized curricula for many countries. just as students and teachers in the united states can currently find ap courses on khan academy, students and teachers in other countries will be able to find courses that are aligned to their own national curricula. finally, language advocates met with sal to discuss the future of khan academy, which led to both a great conversation and a fun livestream of the team. here’s to continuing to work together to making a free, world-class education available to everyone, everywhere, in every language! 1 year ago, 9 notes international localization welcome, language advocates, to khan academy! this week we are thrilled to welcome 30 members of our language advocate team to khan academy headquarters in california! language advocates lead our effort to translate khan academy into dozens of different languages. they’re the key to making sure we can achieve the anywhere part of our mission to provide a free, world class education to anyone, anywhere. representatives of 20 languages* are here with us this week from all around the world. together we’ll be exchanging best practices for translating and adapting khan academy content, strategizing about how to promote khan academy in other countries, and making plans for the upcoming year. stay tuned for a recap after the week is done! * armenian հայերեն, bangla বাংলা, bulgarian български, burmese မြန်မာ, chinese (simplified) 简体中文, czech čeština, french français, georgian ქართული, greek ελληνικά hindi हिंदी, japanese 日本語, kannada ಕನ್ನಡ, pashto پښتو, portuguese (brazilian) português brasileiro, portuguese (european) português europeu, spanish español, swedish svenska, tamil தமிழ், thai ไทย, turkish türkçe (note: languages without a link are still in the early stages of preparing their sites, so keep an eye on the this blog to see when they become available!) 1 year ago, 3 notes khan academy now available in czech and tamil! we are excited to announce the launch of two new khan academy language sites: khan academy czech and khan academy tamil! these two sites join 22 khan academy language sites that already exist and are still expanding and adding new translated content (see below for the full list). the vast majority of these sites are translated and maintained by volunteers and international nonprofit organizations - if you are interested in volunteering to translate for khan academy, learn more about our volunteer translator program. a note from the czech team the khan academy czech initiative was started in 2011 with the goal of localizing khan academy into the czech language. hundreds of volunteers have subtitled over 4000 khan academy videos in the past 7 years, leading up to the launch of khan academy czech. work is now ongoing to add more content, build awareness and implement in schools across the czech republic. the nonprofit khanova skola has partnered with the local company bakalari software to take this initiative forward. we love to recreate and translate khan academy content! it’s a long-term benefit for young people and life long learners! s překlady khan academy videí do češtiny jsme začali v roce 2011. během 7 let se povedlo především díky dobrovolníkům otitulkovat přes 4000 videí. v červnu 2018 byla spuštěna lokalizovaná cs.khanacademy.org. postupně přidáváme obsah, informujeme a podporujeme využití khan academy v českých školách. nadšeně pokračujeme v tvorbě českých videí i v překladu cvičení a článků. v tom všem nám pomáhá náš skvělý sponzor, společnost bakaláři software. the czech translation team a note from the tamil team we are super excited to announce that tamil students all around the globe can now access khan academy educational resources in tamil! khan academy tamil offers math videos and exercises in early math, kindergarten, 1st grade and 2nd grade. we are on our way to add arithmetic to the list soon… vetrivel foundation kick-started the localization of khan academy in tamil language in 2011. with countless hours of translation support from our 50 volunteers, and with the partnership support from tamil virtual academy (a tamilnadu government organization), we have completed subtitling over 2000 khan academy videos and dubbing 1750 videos in the past 7 years. in addition, vetrivel foundation employed freelance team members to complete basic math and website translations, which culminated in the launch of ta.khanacademy.org. with a dedicated team now being employed as part of vetrivel foundation, work is now ongoing to add more content, build awareness and implement khan academy tamil in underprivileged schools across tamilnadu. language is not a barrier anymore…we strongly believe that everyone has the right to mother-tongue-based world-class education! உலகெங்கிலும் உள்ள தமிழில் கல்வி பயிலும் மாணவர்கள் பயனடைய கான் அகாடமியின் உலகத் தரம் வாய்ந்த கல்விக் காணொலிகள் மற்றும் பயிற்சிகள் இப்போது முழுவதுமாகத் தமிழில்வெளிவந்துள்ளது என்பதை நாங்கள் பெருமகிழ்ச்சியுடன் தெரிவித்துக் கொள்கின்றோம்! கான் அகாடமி தமிழ் இணையத்தளம் கணிதக் காணொலி மற்றும் பயிற்சிகளை “அடிப்படைக் கணிதம்”, “மழலை வகுப்பு”, “முதல் நிலை”, “இரண்டாம் நிலை” ஆகிய பிரிவுகளுக்கு வழங்குகின்றது. விரைவில் “எண் கணிதம்” பாடமும் வரவிருக்கின்றது… வெற்றிவேல் அறக்கட்டளை கான் அகாடமி இணையதளத்தினைத் தன்னிலையாக்கம் செய்யும் பணியினை 2011 ஆம் தொடங்கியது. கடந்த 7 ஆண்டுகளில் ஐம்பதிற்கும் மேற்பட்ட தன்னார்வலர்களின் அயராத உழைப்போடும், தமிழ் இணையக் கல்விக் கழகத்தின் (தமிழக அரசு அமைப்பு) கூட்டு முயற்சியோடும் இதுவரை 2000 காணொலிகளுக்குத் துணையுரைம் 1750காணொலிகளுக்கு ஒலிச்சேர்க்கையும் நிறைவடைந்திருக்கின்றது. மேலும் வெற்றிவேல் அறக்கட்டளை அடிப்படைக் கணிதம் மற்றும் இணையப் பக்க மொழியாக்கத்திற்கு சார்பற்ற தனி மொழிபெயர்ப்பாளர்களைப் பணியில் அமர்த்தியது எங்களின் தமிழ் கான் அகாடமி இணையப் பக்கத்தை நிறுவ உறுதுணையாக இருந்தது. the tamil team on a visit to the khan academy office all khan academy language sites armenian · bengali/bangla · bulgarian · chinese (simplified, china mainland) · danish · dutch · georgian · german · gujarati · french · hindi · italian · japanese · korean · mongolian · norwegian bokmal · polish · portuguese (brazilian) · portuguese (portugal) · serbian · spanish · turkish we also have work-in-progress sites for these 15 languages: arabic · greek · dari · hebrew · indonesian · malay · persian · russian · swahili · telugu · thai · ukrainian · urdu · xhosa · zulu 1 year ago, 3 notes turkish advocate alp köksal wins award for work on ka turkish ten outstanding young persons of the world (toyp) program, sponsored by junior chamber international, serves to formally recognize young people who excel in their chosen fields and exemplify the best attributes of the world’s young people. our turkish advocate, alp koksal is chosen as one of the ten outstanding young persons in turkey and awarded first prize for “humanitarian and voluntary leadership” in his country for 2017. toyp awards are given out worldwide annually since 1983, but they root back to the 1930’s. the past winners include names such as john f. kennedy, bill clinton and orson welles in the united states. alp has been leading khan academy türkçe, one of khan academy’s first international partners with an office of nearly 20 people and 500 volunteers, for the last five years. he also serves as the general manager of the foundation for the translation of scientific and technical publications, the education foundation of the stfa group, one of the most rooted conglomerates in turkey. khan academy tr provides a free library of over 6,000 khan academy videos in turkish, which are made available in all schools in turkey with collaborations. having keynoted major conferences before, alp was awarded this significant prize due to his various accomplishments to support the digital transformation of education, civil society and social entrepreneurship in turkey. congratulations to alp and the turkish team! 2 years ago, 2 notes the khan academy leaders program: bringing new models of mathematics education to korea on 4/15/2017, the connect foundation, an organization translating khan academy into korean, held an opening ceremony with 131 mathematics teachers selected to participate in a new khan academy school adoption program. these teachers, known as khan academy leaders (leaders), plan to spread new methods of teaching mathematics using khan academy content. from pioneering teachers in smart education to teachers in alternative schools, the leaders shared their ideas and know-how through a four-hour workshop. the workshop included a discussion of khan academy math materials, pedagogical best practices, and q & a with an experienced teacher. “for mathematics, gaps in basic academic skills increase with each grade. in this sense, the learning management system (lms) of khan academy is very effective in evaluating each student’s mathematics level correctly,” said kim hwang, a teacher in maji elementary school. during the program, the leaders shared their ambitious goals. they hope to play a role in creating a new teaching model for mathematics education in a variety of contexts, including regular classes, flipped learning, and homeschooling based on khan academy. “khan academy is the ideal education platform, allowing students take the reins of their own learning. even though the curriculum of khan academy is not the same as ours, the leaders adapt khan academy content to our educational context”, said cho kiseung, a teacher in gyeseong elementary school and consultant to the connect foundation. accordingly, the connect foundation will give our full support to the leaders. the foundation will share the outcomes and accomplishments of the leader program case study, provide teacher training, work to improve awareness of khan academy, and encourage other teachers to use this resource in their classes. • connect foundation the connect foundation is a non-profit education foundation established by naver corporation, one of the largest internet portal services in korea, and concluded a partnership with khan academy in 2014. 2 years ago, 7 notes page 1 of 12 older khan academy international © 2011–2020 basic by cubthemes support about documentation changelog open ticket feedback basic v1.1.2 (check for updates) follow cubthemes on tumblr and twitter for the latest news, updates and releases. close