khan academy schedules for school closures to get the student schedules in another language here. currently available in: español - eeuu, български език, deutsche this is a trying time for everyone. as a mission-focused non-profit, it is khan academy’s duty to do our part to ensure students keep learning amidst the school closures. we also want to support teachers and parents to the best of our ability as we navigate this crisis together. these schedules are meant to be templates that you could adopt as is or copy and modify to better suit the needs of your children, classroom or district. as you see in the schedules below, khan academy does have self-paced, interactive content--exercises, videos and articles--for students in every grade and in most major subject areas. it is all free and non-commercial and is made possible by philanthropic support from people like you. teachers and parents can also use our teacher tools to monitor progress and assign specific work. this could be made even more powerful if it is complemented with google hangout, zoom or skype video conference sessions with teachers and classmates. for example, teachers can hold video conference “office hours” during the day where students can go to get questions answers and teachers can monitor student progress on goals. the video conference office hours could also be done by parent volunteers or older students (different parents can choose to “cover” different parts of the day or different subjects based on their expertise). we are also having daily (weekdays) 12pm pst/3pm est live streams on facebook and youtube for students, parents and teachers navigating school closures. go here if you have general questions about how to use khan academy as a teacher or parent. go here for teachers resources (videos and articles) to understand khan academy generally and how to get your class set up. student schedules: preschool, kindergarten, 1st grade and 2nd grade 3rd-5th grade 6th-9th grade 10th-12th grade and here’s a little inspiration. preschool, kindergarten, 1st grade and 2nd grade time activity 8am - 9am breakfast/get ready (yes. change out of pjs) 9am - 9:30am khan academy kids (ideally doing it while sitting next to a parent or older sibling giving them positive feedback for effort). khan academy kids starts at the basics of letters, numbers, and social emotional learning and goes through the first grade standards in math, reading, writing and social emotional learning. for students with stronger literacy and motor skills: khan academy kindergarten, 1st grade and 2nd grade math can be appropriate. ideally a parent or older sibling sits next to them while doing this. one practice that we’ve seen teachers use to great effect is to have all students start on kindergarten and then move to 1st grade, 2nd grade, etc. this helps ensure that older students are filling in any knowledge gaps that may have accumulated. it also helps build momentum and confidence. course challenges and unit tests can be used to accelerate through material. for students with minimal gaps, they should be able to get through a previous year’s content in 1-3 hours. 9:30am - 10am play. ideally outside if weather permits. 10am - 10:30 am reading time. ideally this would be time to read next to a parent or sibling. if students are ready, they can read on their own. suggested books (by reading level): there are 100+ books that students can read or have read to them on khan academy kids the alsc summer reading list is also a great resource 10:30am - 11:20am break. ideally run around and play outside. have a snack. 11:20am - 12pm writing practice write and illustrate a story about someone having a funny adventure when they stay home sick. draw a picture of what you think a virus looks like. tell about the different parts and how you think they work. 12pm - 1pm lunch - listen to an educational podcast! try wow in the world! if you like science, stories podcast or circle round to hear a story, or noodle loaf to learn about music! 1pm-7pm relax, go outside, play, time with family. 7-8pm lights out, time to sleep! grades 3 - 5 time activity 8am - 9am breakfast/get ready for an awesome day! and yes, change out of pjs :) 9am - 9:40am assuming you’ve gotten a good night of sleep, your thinking will be sharpest in the morning so let’s start the day strong with some math! whoo hoo! khan academy math practice has got your back. depending on your confidence and grade level, one of the following courses are likely good for you: 2nd grade math 3rd grade math 4th grade math 5th grade math one practice that we’ve seen teachers and students use to great effect is to start, regardless of age, on kindergarten and then move to 1st grade, 2nd grade, etc. course challenges and unit tests can be used to accelerate through material. if you don’t have too many gaps, you should be able to get through a previous year’s content in 1-3 hours. if you do have gaps, it may take a bit longer, but that is good! this is your chance to fill in those gaps that might otherwise hold you back in the future. you’ll see that if you are able to put in at least a solid 30 minutes a day of math practice and keep leveling up skills, you’ll see big gains and, most importantly, really see the world in new and exciting ways! one you are at your grade level, try to set a goal of leveling up at least 3 skills a week. 9:40am - 10am play. ideally play outside. get that heart pumping. 10am - 10:30 am we just released the first version of reading comprehension practice on khan academy. it is grouped by grade level: 2nd grade 3rd grade 4th grade 5th grade 6th grade 7th grade 8th grade we recommend starting at your grade level and doing 1-2 practice sets per day (or 10 practice sets per week). this should take about 10-20 minutes per day. if you find it difficult, completely okay to start at an earlier grade level. likewise, if you find the passages and questions to be easy, feel free to move to higher grade levels. 10:30am - 11am silent reading. curl up with a favorite book or magazine. here is a great list of titles that you might want to get your hands on: http://www.ala.org/alsc/sites/ala.org.alsc/files/content/compubs/booklists/summer/alsc-2019-summer-reading-list-grades3-5.pdf 11am - 11:20am break/walk/play. try to get that heart pumping again! 11:20am - 11:40am khan academy grammar: https://www.khanacademy.org/humanities/grammar recommend starting by taking the course challenge a few times to figure out what you know and don’t know. 11:40 am - 12pm journaling/writing. things to write about/prompts: write a funny or exciting adventure story about what happens when school is closed. what are you excited or worried about? write a letter to yourself 10 years in the future. what do you want to tell your future self? how do you think the world will be different after the novel corona virus? 12pm - 1pm lunch - listen to an educational podcast! try brains on! if you like science, forever ago if you like history, or story pirates to hear funny stories written by kids. 1pm-2pm enrichment: code.org express course (block based for beginners). khan academy computer programming, (text based for beginners to intermediate) programming computers is far more fun and creative than you probably ever imagined. both these resources start by creating fun cartoons and animations and work your way up to creating fun games that your friends can play. 2pm-8pm relax, go outside, work on passions, time with family. 8-9pm lights out, time to sleep! grades 6-9 time activity 8am - 9am wake up, make your bed, eat breakfast and get ready for an awesome day! and yes, change out of pjs :) 9am - 9:40am let’s start strong with some serious math brain training. remember your brain is like a muscle, the more you use it the stronger it gets! khan academy math practice. depending on level, one of the following courses are likely appropriate: 6th grade math 7th grade math 8th grade math algebra i geometry one practice that we’ve seen teachers and students use to great effect is to start, regardless of age, on kindergarten and then move to 1st grade, 2nd grade, etc. course challenges and unit tests can be used to accelerate through material. if you don’t have too many gaps, you should be able to get through a previous year’s content in 1-3 hours. if you do have gaps, it may take a bit longer, but that is good! this is your chance to fill in those gaps that might otherwise hold you back in the future. 9:40am - 10am go for walk/run. youtube justdance/workouts if weather is bad. maybe 15 minutes of yoga with adrien? 10am - 11am reading time. here is a list of good books for grades 6-8:http://www.ala.org/alsc/sites/ala.org.alsc/files/content/compubs/booklists/summer/alsc-2019-summer-reading-list-grades6-8cor.pdf here is another list. sal khan’s favorite science fiction books that he read around your age include: foundation, by isaac asimov ender’s game,by orson scott card hitchhiker’s guide to the galaxy, by douglas adams 11am - 11:20am break. walk/run outside if possible. 11:20am - 12pm khan academy grammar: https://www.khanacademy.org/humanities/grammar recommend starting by taking the course challenge a few times to figure out what you know and don’t know. journaling/writing things to write about/prompts: what would you do? research how the virus spreads and different plans that leaders have made to slow it or stop it. then imagine you are an elected official. write a plan of your own to slow or stop the virus in your own town. what are you excited or worried about? write a letter to yourself 10 years in the future. what do you want to tell your future self? how do you think the world will be different after the novel coronavirus? what part would you play? people in many, many different jobs play a role in managing this outbreak. make a list of jobs that can contribute to a solution, and write about which job you’d want and why. 12pm - 1pm lunch - listen to an educational podcast! try radiolab if you like science, forever ago if you like history, or goodnight stories for rebel girls if you like biographies 1pm - 2pm science and social studies. khan academy high school biology could be used. do research on what a virus is and how it spreads. keep track of the news and how the various countries are responding to the pandemic. khan academy resources: high school biology american history computer science principles 2pm-2:30pm walk/break 2:30pm-3:30pm enrichment: code.org express course (block based for beginners). khan academy computer programming, (text based for beginners to intermediate) programming computers is far more fun and creative than you probably ever imagined. both these resources start by creating fun cartoons and animations and work your way up to creating fun games that your friends can play. 3:30pm-9pm relax, go outside, work on passions, time with family. 9-10pm lights out, time to sleep! grades 10-12 time activity 8am - 9am wake up, make your bed, eat breakfast and get ready for an awesome day! and yes, change out of pjs :) 9am - 9:40am khan academy math practice. depending on level, one of the following courses are likely appropriate: algebra ii geometry precalculus/trigonometry ap calculus ab or bc ap statistics 9:40am - 10am go for walk/run. youtube justdance/workouts if weather is bad. maybe 15 minutes of yoga with adriene? 10am - 10:40am official sat practice (math, reading and writing) for more info about how to use official sat practice during school closures click here. 10:40 - 11am break/walk 11am - 12pm science practice on khan academy (high school or a.p. level): biology (high school, a.p.) chemistry (high school, a.p.) physics (high school, a.p.) economics (micro, macro) ap cs principles 12pm - 1pm lunch - listen to an educational podcast! try this american life if you like storytelling, or radiolab or science friday if you like science! 1pm - 2pm social studies or second science american history (high school, ap) government and politics (high school, ap) world history art history any of the sciences above 2pm-2:30pm walk/break. maybe a guided meditation? 2:30pm-3:30pm journaling/writing things to write about/prompts: what do you think will be the short term implications of the pandemic and the school closures? how will society be different post pandemic? why? how is this virus different from the flu? why does that matter? what is the social impact on you of school closures? what is positive and what is negative? is the governmental response that you are seeing adequate? what would you do differently if you were the mayor, governor or president? 3:30pm-11pm relax, go outside, work on passions, time with family. 11pm lights out, time to sleep! khan academy student schedules also available in the following languages: español - eeuu български език deutsche note: we’ll be adding more languages soon, please check back. published by google drive–report abuse–updated automatically every 5 minutes