got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos tv news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... khloé kardashian claps back after fans call out ‘hypocrisy’ over forgiving tristan thompson & exiling jordyn woods! home › khloe kardashian › khloé kardashian claps back after fans call out ‘hypocrisy’ over forgiving tristan thompson & exiling jordyn woods! khloé kardashian has made her peace with the cheating scandal involving tristan thompson and jordyn woods — and at this point, she doesn’t give a f**k what anyone has to say about it! on thursday night while she was live-tweeting the season 18 premiere of kuwtk, the 35-year-old starlet found herself on the defensive as fans slammed how her family seemed to happily welcome back her ex-boyfriend while kylie jenner‘s ex-bff indefinitely remains on the outs with the karjenner clan. related: khloé is playing coy about those tristan thompson reconciliation rumors! the drama started after one twitter user pointed out the “hypocrisy” in khloé’s actions: “so they all forgave tristan for cheating on khloe, so they must forgive jordyn too since he kissed her without her consent! i love all woman’s in this family but i can’t agree with hypocrisy #kuwtk.” but the good american founder clapped back with an explanation of her own: “we have forgiven both parties! and the nonconsent thing is near say [sic]. the entire story is hearsay but i’ll let you guys run with whatever you want to run with. if you are a true fan you would’ve followed by insta stories where i [sic] have repeatedly stated how i have forgiven both parties to be in peace. and this is for everyone’s mental well being.” so they all forgave tristan for cheating on khloe, so they must forgive jordyn too since he kissed her without her consent! i love all woman's in this family but i can't agree with hypocrisy #kuwtk — thamy (@softkylies) march 27, 2020 where i have repeatedly stated how i have forgiven both parties and i want both parties to be in peace. and this is for everyone’s mental well being — khloé (@khloekardashian) march 27, 2020 while that may be the case, there is a pretty clear difference in what forgiveness looks like for both parties. miz woods more than likely won’t ever rekindle her close friendship with the kardashians — meanwhile, tristan is being treated to dinner dates with his new bff kim kardashian west. related: the kardashians are ‘still very protective’ but have ultimately forgiven tristan during the keeping up premiere, fans saw kkw invite her sister’s ex-boyfriend to dinner with her friends. despite all of their progress, even khloé voiced her reservations about how quickly true‘s dad was creeping back into the picture: “i thought it was really nice that he came to dinner and that you guys allowed that, but we all just don’t need to be hanging out for no reason. it’s not even been a year since our breakup, so it’s just a lot so soon.” well, a lot’s happened since that episode was filmed! for what it’s worth, jordy made it pretty clear she’s done talking about that whole scandal and her friendship with kylie is reportedly 100% over. so, we don’t think she’s too concerned about all of this. as for the former flames, they’ve recently sparked reconciliation rumors amid reports they are quarantining together with their daughter during the coronavirus outbreak. this crew is temporarily back together during quarantine! / (c) khloé kardashian/instagram a source provided some insight on koko’s perspective on her current situation to us weekly: “khloé doesn’t have bad or negative feelings toward tristan at this point. being quarantined has made her have a soft spot for him, and she knows he will always be part of her life in some way because he is true’s dad. khloé has been open and receptive toward tristan.” do u think all of this time spent together will lead to an official reconciliation? and, do u think the kardashians are being hypocritical about jordyn? sound off in the comments! [image via apega/avalon/instar/wenn] related posts kim kardashian says she loves tristan thompson ‘like a brother’ after they ‘totally bonded’ with each other… the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on kuwtk! watch kourtney kardashian call out sister kim in expletive-filled blow-up over work-life balance! khloé kardashian shows support for kim kardashian in taylor swift feud: ‘my sister and my lawyer’ click click click next article next article mar 27, 2020 3:37pm pdt share this categories breakups celebrity feuds controversy jordyn woods khloe kardashian kuwtk love line reality tv tristan thompson tv news twitter view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy