menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: just for fun, manly skills, projects patrick hutchison • march 27, 2020 kid craft of the week: pencil catapult while much of the world is in quarantine of some form, and often sequestered with children who are itching for something to do, we thought it would be fun to offer a weekly craft/project idea you can work on together to help while away the time. if you make the craft, we’d love to see it; share on social media with the hashtag #aomkidcraft. catapults have been around for a long, long time. some records peg their first appearance to the 3rd century bc in china. others say the greeks were the first to launch projectiles into the air. adding to the confusion is the sheer variety of catapult styles, ranging from creations like trebuchets to machines that looked more like giant crossbows than traditional catapults. one thing they all have in common is how they work. all catapults function by storing energy, usually through tension, and then releasing it in a way that launches a projectile over a great distance. the biggest medieval catapults could launch 300-pound stones over 1,000 feet. replicating a full-size medieval catapult is probably beyond the scope of a craft project for kids, but that doesn’t mean you’re out of luck. if you’ve got a dozen pencils, some masking tape, and a few rubber bands, you’re well on your way to creating your own miniature version. building one is easy and offers a great opportunity to teach kids about basic building principles, how levers and springs work, or even more advanced ideas, like the shape of a parabola or how potential energy works. but really, learning opportunities aside, they’re mostly just a lot of fun to make and play with! below is how to construct your own. these instructions have a specific set of materials, but there are lots of options for substitutions if you don’t have these things lying around. for example, you could use a spoon or measuring cup in place of the cardboard box, string instead of rubber bands, and any type of tape. how to make a pencil catapult supplies scissors small piece of cardboard rubber bands 12 pencils masking tape step 1: make a pencil triangle arrange 3 pencils into an equilateral triangle. for extra stability down the road, make sure at least one side of your triangle has two eraser ends pointing down. the erasers will act as grippy feet for your catapult. use rubber bands to bind them together where they meet at the corners. step 2: reinforce the triangle lock in your triangle’s shape and pencil position by reinforcing each joint with a narrow strip of masking tape. step 3: make another triangle repeat steps 1 and 2 to make another identical triangle. these will act as your main catapult supports. step 4: connect the supports (at the top) span the top of your catapult supports by taping another pencil from peak to peak. no rubber band needed here. step 5: connect the supports (at the bottom) repeat step 4, but at the bottom of your catapult supports. again, no rubber bands needed, just tape. step 6: attach the pivot attach a pencil halfway up one side of your supports using rubber bands. start by hooking one end of the rubber band around the pencil’s end, then wrap it around both pencils until it’s tight and you can hook the remaining end. this is the pivot point which will attach to your catapult’s arm. step 7: make the catapult fasten two pencils together using masking tape. this will act as the arm of your catapult. binding it at multiple points will help make it stronger. step 8: attach catapult attach your catapult arm to the middle of your pivot point using a rubber band. step 9: connect rubber bands connect two rubber bands with a simple hitch knot. stretch them across your catapult supports opposite your pivot arm. tie the ends together. depending on the size of your rubber band, you may need to connect three or more rubber bands to span the distance. step 10: make the launcher cut out a square of cardboard approximately 3 by 3.5 inches. cut small slits into each side and fold up the middle. then, fold the ends up and wrap the tabs around, securing them with tape to create a small box for your projectile. step 11: attach launcher to catapult use tape to attach your cardboard box to the end of your catapult’s arm. step 12: launch! make a projectile by balling up a piece of masking tape. to launch, load your tape ball in the cardboard box and position the opposite end of your catapult arm so it’s resting on the opposing rubber band. then, press down on the catapult arm, just below the box, to build up tension. when you’re ready to fire, simply release the arm and watch the ball fly! the idea for this craft came from the double dangerous book for boys. here are some more fun, kid-friendly projects to keep your family busy: how to make a slingshot how to make a marshmallow shooter how to make slime how to make a pvc blowgun how to make a pvc archery bow related articles tags: kid craft never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// 10 tips for tackling your first major diy automotive repair cool uncle tricks: make a salt shaker disappear how to make a ladder from tubular webbing how to take care of rope view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy