about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews category: kids health the 5 best urinals for potty training in 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve yep, the world's gone bento box mad! and now that your kid needs japan's answer portion-controlled meals on the go, we'll show you the best of the bunch. read more » the 9 best toddler step stools of 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve yep, the world's gone bento box mad! and now that your kid needs japan's answer portion-controlled meals on the go, we'll show you the best of the bunch. read more » the 9 best bento boxes for kids in 2020 updated jan 30, 2020 neve yep, the world's gone bento box mad! and now that your kid needs japan's answer portion-controlled meals on the go, we'll show you the best of the bunch. read more » how art is fighting child mental health issues updated mar 12, 2020 neve spicer schools have a responsibility to support their kids to be resilient and mentally healthy. arts education plays a vital role in this area. read more » 5 simple ways to get your kids active updated nov 26, 2018 neve spicer being physically active is the most natural thing in the world. but if your kids lose touch with this ability, it's time to make a few lifestyle tweaks. read more » best kids electric toothbrushes of 2020 updated jan 9, 2020 neve spicer as busy parents, you probably look forward to your bedtime routine as much as you used to look forward to seeing your favorite band in concert. your kids, on … read more » best baby and kids sunscreen of 2020 (safety without sticky) updated jan 9, 2020 neve spicer we are officially entering that time of year where we bid goodbye to overcast skies, chilly weather, and snow days. with better weather comes a growing desire to be … read more » we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest