about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews category: kids play, toys & gifts the 13 best unicorn toys your kids will love updated mar 25, 2020 neve mystical, magical unicorns are a hit with kids of all ages, which means there’s plenty of toy options out there to choose from. of course, scoring the best of … read more » the 11 best adhd toys for kids updated mar 8, 2020 neve shopping for a child with adhd can feel pretty overwhelming. after all, this is someone you love dearly, and you want to make sure that whatever you give them … read more » the 7 best walkie talkies for kids in 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve walk-talkies are handheld radio transmitters that allow children to communicate from remote locations. simply said, kids love playing with walkie-talkies. it doesn’t matter if they are engaging in a … read more » the best superhero toys for kids in 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve whether they’re soaring through the sky, making their home in a high-tech subterranean lair, or saving the day just in the nick of time, kids love superheroes because they … read more » the 15 best pool toys for kids updated mar 11, 2020 neve when warm weather rolls around, it’s time to make a splash, and there’s no better companion for the journey than a fun pool toy. from big rafts for multiple … read more » the 10 best train tables to buy in 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve train tables are timeless toys that encourage problem-solving and cognitive development. these incredible playthings also keep children amused for usually long periods. that’s a lot to ask of toys … read more » the best ps4 games for kids in 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve a kid-friendly playstation 4 game needs to be engaging, entertaining, and age-appropriate. since modern kids spend a lot of time in front of screens, games must be worthy of … read more » the 9 best toy tea sets to buy in 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve childhood tea parties have an iconic place in the modern history of play — toy tea sets have been a popular gift for encouraging creative and social play since … read more » posts navigation 1 2 3 4 … 9 next we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest