kieran healy publications resources teaching prints blog kieran healy publications resources teaching prints blog i am professor of sociology at duke university. (→ read a short biosketch.) recent work data visualization: a practical introduction. princeton university press. buy on amazon / summary “transformative treatments.” noûs 52: 320–335. / summary / pdf “visualizing the baby boom.” socius 4: 1-2 / summary / pdf “the plain person’s guide to plain text social science.” / summary / pdf “by the numbers.” european journal of sociology (2017), 58:512-519 / summary / pdf recent writing a covid small multiple 27 march 2020 john burn-murdoch has been doing very good work at the financial times producing various visualizations of the progress of covid-19. one of his recent images is a small-multiple plot of cases by country, showing the trajectory of the outbreak for a large number of countries, with a the background of each small-multiple panel also showing (in grey) the trajectory of every other country for comparison. it’s a useful technique. in this example, i’ll draw a version of it in r and ggplot. read more… covid 19 tracking 21 march 2020 get your epidemiology from epidemiologists the covid-19 pandemic continues to rage. i’m strongly committed to what should be the uncontroversial view that we should listen to the recommendations of those institutions and individuals with strong expertise in the relevant fields of public health, epidemiology, disease control, and infection modeling. i also think that the open availability of data, and the free availability of methods to look at data, is generally a good thing. read more… u.s. census counts data 15 march 2020 as promised previously, i packaged up the u.s. census data that i pulled together to make the population density and pyramid animations. the package is called uscenpops and it’s available to install via github or with install.packages() if you set up drat first. the instructions are on the package homepage. a small multiple plot of selected population pyramids instead of an animation, let’s make the less-flashy but, frankly, in all likelihood more useful small multiple plot seen here. read more… animating u.s. population distributions 14 march 2020 with the 2020 u.s. census in motion already, i’ve been looking at various pieces of data from the census bureau. i decided i wanted to draw some population pyramids for the u.s. over as long a time series as i could. what’s needed for that are tables for, say, as many years as possible that show the number of males and females alive at every year of age from zero to the highest age you’re willing to track. read more… this be the kirsch 7 march 2020 they pluck your plums, your mum and dad they eat them for their supper, too they gobble all the fruit you had and leave some bullshit note for you but they were robbed blind in their day of damsons, prunes, and blackthorn sloes their breakfast treats were poached away and justified with old-style prose “forgive us” both your parents moan “they were delicious, sweet, and cold” they wonder why i never phone read more… powered by hugo. © 1995 - 2020 kieran healy