the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop newswire killing eve's 3rd season will bring the murder two weeks early. check out the new trailer you may also like news please, we’re begging, make this patrick stewart/ian mckellen gardening detective show a reality allison shoemakertoday 11:49am news comrade britney spears shares post calling for general strike and redistribution of wealth sam barsantituesday 7:49pm the a.v. club grey’s anatomy’s lengthy existence isn’t a joke, it’s a strength caroline siede5/18/18 10:00am more from g/o media read on another ww1 fps wants to get into the trenches read on coronavirus is exposing how backward car buying is read on this is all going to last longer than we think read on here's a new covid-19 data site to obsessively refresh subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe shannon miller today 11:53am • filed to:tv tvkilling eve 6 save photo: aimee spinks (bbc america) in a rare bit of fortune these days, one fandom will actually get the goods a little early next month: per deadline, amc networks have decided to move killing eve’s third season premiere up by two whole weeks. originally slated to premiere on april 26, audiences will be reunited with wayward assassin villanelle’s (emmy winner jody comer) fatal brand of infatuation on sunday, april 12. in a world currently fecund with rain checks and cancellations, getting something sooner than expected is a decent change of pace. “we know how adored this series is and we know how keen people are for great content right now,” said president of amc networks entertainment group and amc studios, sarah barnett. “this season of killing eve digs deep psychologically, and with actors like sandra oh, jodie comer and fiona shaw the results are nothing short of astonishing. we literally couldn’t wait for fans to see it.” advertisement the eight-episode season of the popular thriller will be simulcast on bbc america and amc. last season ended with the odd couple striking out on their own, with villanelle freed of konstantin and eve (golden globe winner oh)—who gained a brand new body count of her very own after killing twelve member raymond—having divested herself from carolyn (fiona shaw). here’s what our season two reviewer, lisa weidenfeld, thinks fans might be in for come april: the already announced season 3 of killing eve will probably look very different than what we’ve seen so far, since both main characters have separated from their handlers, and there isn’t really a clear goal in place for either of them. having both tried to kill each other once already, will this be the season where one of them finally succeeds? advertisement take a look at the first trailer below: share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the a.v. club the best alien invasion movie of 1996 isn’t the one with will smith someone's suing mandy moore for $150,000 for posting a photo of...herself bob ross and red dead redemption, together at last trevor noah gets 13 minutes with the one guy you want to listen to on covid-19 share tweet