got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos love line featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... kim kardashian says she loves tristan thompson ‘like a brother’ after they ‘totally bonded’ with each other… home › kim kardashian › kim kardashian says she loves tristan thompson ‘like a brother’ after they ‘totally bonded’ with each other… kim kardashian west clearly feels some type of way about tristan thompson… and it’s honestly kind of surprising! just a little over a year since the nba star’s infamous jordyn woods scandal and it appears to all be water under the bridge for the head kardashian. and while affected sis khloé kardashian is still navigating the post-breakup world of co-parenting and living through the fallout from the scandal, her older sis and baby daddy appear to be… bonding? yes, really! related: kim k asks for kid-friendly quarantine tips — and gets trolled! the momma of four may have feuded with the basketball star in the past over his apparent indiscretions and other bad behavior, but of late she’s taken a far different tone with true thompson‘s father. for one, in the season 18 premiere of keeping up with the kardashians that aired thursday night, kim invited tristan to a dinner she was having with friends, and pointed out to the table that it was important to her to do the right thing: “tristan is true’s dad. so regardless of whatever, he’s connected for life, we can’t change that.” amen! co-parenting (and, uh, co-in-laws, or something?) for the win!!! the skims founder then took it a step further while live-tweeting last night’s premiere, too, pointing out in a message to her fans how she loves the cleveland cavaliers star now “like a brother” after the pair worked through personal issues: i actually love tristan now like a brother fr! we totally bonded and worked through our issues and love him https://t.co/e0zguxyhbj — kim kardashian west (@kimkardashian) march 27, 2020 wow!!! quite the change of heart considering tristan had been persona non grata with pretty much the entire kardashian and jenner clan just a few short months ago! of course, koko has had her own reconciliation of sorts with him, too, so it’s not like this is coming out of the blue. as you’ll recall, the pair are actually spending this self-quarantine time together along with baby true, so that hasn’t exactly kept the rumor mill away from the embattled pair. related: is this beneath khloé kardashian?! in fact, the former exes watched last night’s season 18 premiere together, too — a feat the good american founder had quite a bit of fun with, as you can see (below): i love that tristan is watching this premiere with me and he is now seeing what they say when he’s not around lol awkward!! #kuwtk — khloé (@khloekardashian) march 27, 2020 lolz!!! seriously though, there’s clearly a comeback connection being built between tristan and the kardashian sisters… which is surprising considering where we were a few months ago, but, well, that’s life! what do y’all think about tristan’s comeback into kim’s (and khloé’s) good graces, y’all?? will this last — and will the embattled exes eventually make it official by getting all the way back together again?! sound off with your take on the whole thing down in the comments (below)… [image via apega/wenn] related posts the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on kuwtk! dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton watch kourtney kardashian call out sister kim in expletive-filled blow-up over work-life balance! kim kardashian asks for kid-friendly quarantine tips — but gets epicly trolled by taylor swift fans click click click next article next article mar 27, 2020 10:50am pdt share this categories breakups family jordyn woods khloe kardashian kim kardashian kuwtk love line reality tv tristan thompson true thompson view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy