video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map kimanzi constable vip contributor consultant and lifetime entrepreneur follow about kimanzi constable kimanzi constable is the author of four books and has had articles published in over 30 publications and magazines. he is the chief growth officer of results global impact consulting (a content and email marketing agency). join him at rgic. more from kimanzi constable finding customers not all clients are good for business. here's how to find the ones who are. customers who don't value your work appropriately are a financial and emotional drain. 5 min read online business 3 simple but effective strategies to create consistent income online consistency is more reliable than inspiration. 4 min read marketing how experts use content to create brand authority and increased sales dynamic storytelling is easier to do and more effective for sales than you might think. 3 min read thought leadership here's what you need to become a genuine thought leader in your industry a real thought leader is simply someone who is known as someone who knows what they are talking about. 4 min read personal branding teach others how to treat your business respect yourself by taking care of you first and refusing to let anyone else compromise your values. 5 min read productivity understand this strategy and you'll get more done if you don't use your time efficiently, you won't accomplish your goals 4 min read scaling if you aren't prepared for growth it can destroy your business an avalanche of sales that can't be fulfilled has buried more than one business. 4 min read branding how to consistently close high-ticket clients do it right and your first big client will be the first of many. 5 min read social media marketing facebook and instagram going dark should be a wake up call for entrepreneurs social media is a tool you use. your website and your email list are assets you own. 4 min read emotional intelligence the emotional roller coaster of entrepreneurship getting control of your emotions is a superpower. 4 min read marketing 3 no-cost marketing tactics you can use right now to bring in more sales it's doesn't matter how good your product is if nobody has heard about it. 5 min read vision clarity: the secret weapon to experiencing explosive business growth clarity provides the power to build relationships and achieve goals. 5 min read morning routines stop hitting the snooze button and start intentionally building your life and business don't beat yourself up for hitting snooze, just start going to bed earlier or setting the alarm later. 4 min read bootstrapping you can't build your business on bartering and free information don't come off as needy and desperate by offering barters that only make sense for you. 5 min read freelance writing 2 ways to make money online this month you don't have to be a superstar entrepreneur to get a corporate writing gig. 5 min read 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 ... 15 company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account