we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk kitchen featured stories culture bored with your panic-bought groceries? these cookers have ideas. culture every nutribullet blender is 25% off. how's that for motivation? culture the best stainless steel cookware sets that you can get on amazon tech 8 of the best blenders for making smoothies culture need new kitchen knives? get this three-piece set for 60% off. best of the best culture the best stainless steel cookware sets that you can get on amazon tech 8 of the best blenders for making smoothies tech 7 of the best manual juicers to get the most out of your fruits and veggies tech food processors will change the way you cook (and these 7 are the best) culture a cast iron skillet is the one pan that belongs in every kitchen — here's why tech everything you need to know about shopping for a centrifugal juicer tech what everyone should know about drinking tap water culture making your own cold-pressed juice is easier (and cheaper) than you think tech the instant pot accessories no one should live without culture 15 of the best personal blenders for smoothies, shakes, and more deals for the kitchen culture bored with your panic-bought groceries? these cookers have ideas. culture every nutribullet blender is 25% off. how's that for motivation? tech dealing with coronavirus-related anxiety? try stress baking. culture need new kitchen knives? get this three-piece set for 60% off. tech here's your chance to get a 9-in-1 instant pot for under $50 culture this versatile vitamix blender is $150 off on amazon culture these extremely pretty knives are on sale this weekend culture here's where to get a magic bullet personal blender for less than $20 culture purell is basically impossible to get, but these sanitizers and soaps are still in stock tech moving into an apartment with a crappy kitchen? get a toaster oven. more for the kitchen masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.