skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: kitchen from counter tops and flooring to sink styles and appliances, find the right kitchen ideas for your tastes. don’t stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus instead of panicking or stockpiling supplies, here's everything you need to buy during the coronavirus shelter-in-place period. by alex gailey on march 24, 2020 in kitchen easy kitchen wall decorating ideas do you love looking through the latest design magazines for kitchen decorating ideas, but don’t have the time or budget for a major remodel? we’ve got some quick and easy decorating tips on how to give your kitchen an update worthy of a home magazine. the best part is that… by cynthia bowman on march 16, 2020 in kitchen kitchen layout design tips & renovation mistakes to avoid shop these products now: cooking range many of our home activities — cooking, cleaning, eating, drinking, socializing — take place in the kitchen. which is why a beautiful and functional kitchen is so important. regardless of your kitchen design style, organization and layout… by andreea on march 5, 2020 in kitchen what is a transitional kitchen? transitional is the most popular kitchen design in the national kitchen + bath association’s 2019 kitchen design trends. in fact, 65% of kitchens designed in the past year were transitional, more than double the kitchens that were traditional, contemporary or farmhouse, according to tricia zach, mar… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in kitchen galley kitchens: pros, cons, and tips whether you’re thinking about remodeling your kitchen or searching for a new home and weighing your options, the kitchen setup is extremely important. and if you cook a lot, the layout of this room really matters. quite a few homes have galley kitchens — and the owners either love them… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in kitchen what is an l-shaped kitchen layout? the l-shaped layout is the most popular kitchen configuration, according to the nkba 2019 kitchen design trends. but what is an l-shaped kitchen layout? we asked a few top experts to explain this layout and provide advice for using it. after all, just because it’s popular doesn’t mean it’s… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in kitchen exclusive! houzz 2019 kitchen trends the 2019 u.s. houzz kitchen trends study provides insight regarding the most popular kitchen trends in home improvement. the report is unique because it captures the opinions of homeowners, whereas most surveys focus on trends from the perspectives of interior designers, architects, etc. by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in kitchen how to make a more sustainable kitchen when you think about it, the kitchen has more potential for waste than any other area in the home. it’s where the majority of your appliances run. it’s where you cook and generate food waste. by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in kitchen kitchen sinks: how to choose the best style for your needs in terms of functionality, the sink is a vitally important part of your kitchen. it’s an important consideration in the design of your kitchen, and is essential in the hallowed kitchen work triangle. however, with so many styles to choose from, are homeowners choosing style over… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in kitchen wayfair’s bridal registry unveils the most popular wedding gifts for the kitchen wayfair recently looked at what kitchen products are the most requested and gifted to figure out this year's hottest kitchen appliance trends. by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in kitchen 1 2 … 7 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss