skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home / windows / kitchen windows guide — find the right choice for you kitchen windows guide — find the right choice for you by blake hughes on march 4, 2020 in windows from sipping coffee in the morning to cooking family dinners at night, we spend a lot of our day in the kitchen. for most homeowners, it’s important for the kitchen to be a happy and cheerful space. one of the most effective ways to do this is through kitchen window design. kitchen windows let in natural light and, if done right, can brighten the mood of the entire room. use these kitchen window ideas to transform your home kitchen into the family gathering space of your dreams. collect this idea anna andersson fotografi / shuttershock your guide to kitchen windows kitchen windows come in many shapes and sizes. they range from the kitchen bay window over the sink, which allows you sweeping views of the outdoors while you do the dishes, to the kitchen pass-through window, which can open the kitchen up to an indoor dining space or outdoor patio. as an integral part of the room’s design, your kitchen windows will help set the mood for the type of kitchen you want to create. kitchen windows overview there are two main components to a kitchen window. first is the design of the window itself, including its size, shape, and how it opens and closes. second is kitchen window decor, or how you choose to dress the window with curtains and valances. for kitchen window design, there are a few pro tips to keep in mind. window types that worked in the rest of your house won’t necessarily work in your kitchen. for example, you’ll want the kitchen sink window to be functional and easy to open while still letting in enough natural light. the best choice for this is often a bay window or side-by-side casement windows. in terms of decor, the most popular way to dress things up is with kitchen window curtains. ideas include using colors and patterns to brighten up the overall scheme. of course, kitchen window valances are also an option for a slightly different style. kitchen windows pros a main advantage of kitchen window curtains is the added privacy that they provide. if you’re concerned about safety, or even just the curious eyes of neighbors, curtains will be your first line of defense to maintain privacy in your kitchen. if privacy isn’t a concern, there are endless kitchen window valance ideas to add style and sophistication to your kitchen without sacrificing the view. valances sit at the top of your kitchen window and, when used effectively, will make the entire room feel larger. the kitchen is one of the easiest places to use valances, which is a huge pro in our design books. another bonus of kitchen window treatments is their cost effectiveness. kitchen renovations are expensive, in fact the average cost of a kitchen remodel is over $60,000. for a tiny fraction of the price, you can give your kitchen a facelift with updated window treatments. save even more money by trying your hand at diy kitchen window decor and create a totally custom look that suits your individual taste. kitchen windows cons when the purpose of kitchen windows is to fill the room with natural light, curtains can block some of this light, putting you at a disadvantage. one popular kitchen window curtain idea is to use sheer curtains that filter some light in while maintaining privacy. you’ll have to test a few different weights of fabric to find the right amount of sheerness. while kitchen window curtains and valances are relatively inexpensive, any modifications involving the design or structure of the windows themselves will add up quickly. this can become a huge drawback if you’re on a budget. however, don’t ignore the signs if you really do need new kitchen windows. windows that are damaged, warped, or poorly insulated should get replaced as soon as possible before they cause further problems. kitchen window reviews the sky is the limit when it comes to designing kitchen windows. start on a site like pinterest to get inspiration and read reviews from other home remodelers. for product reviews on hundreds of individual windows, check out home depot’s website. you can also find customer reviews on window treatments from similar retailers such as lowe’s. also read bedroom windows bedroom windows buying guide windows best pella replacement windows popular stuff give your brick fireplace a facelift - reader story don't stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus bedroom windows buying guide heat pump troubleshooting and repair bedroom windows buying guide popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss